Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19534
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2229-BUR)
June 30, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit 3
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
Exchange rate (CFAF per dollar)
1990 = 319
1991 = 282
1992 = 264
1993 = 283
1994 = 5471
1995 = 500
1996 = 511
1997 = 583
1998 = 590
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFAF       Franc issued by the Central Bank of the West African Nations
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
INERA      National Agricultural Research Institute
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MMT        Mobile Multidisciplinary Team
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
OMU        Operational Management Unit
PNGT       National Environmental Management Project
POMU       Provincial Operational Management Unit
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
Vice-President: Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Director of Operations: Hasan Tuluy, AFC15
Sector Manager : Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTR3
Project Team Leader : Emmanuel Nikiema, AFMBF
In January 1994, the exchange rate between the CFA franc and the French franc was adjusted from 50 CFA
francs = 1 FF to 100 CFA francs = 1 FF.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2229-BUR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.i
PART I. REVIEW OF PROJECT EXECUTION.1
A. Introduction.1
B.   Project Objectives .....................................................                                                   1
C.   Achievement of Objectives .....................................................3
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............7.....................................7
E.   Project Sustainability .....................................................9
F. Performance of the Bank.                                                                                                     9
G.   Performance of the Borrower and the Executing Agency ............................................... 9
H. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................                                                  10
I.    Future Operations of the Project ....................................................                                    10
J.  Key Lessons Learned ....................................................                                                   11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ....................................................                                                    12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .................................................... 12
Table 2: Related IDA Credits ....................................................                                              13
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................... 14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................................... 14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................................                         15
Table 5.A: General Data ....................................................                                                   15
Table 5.B: Main Types of Investments .................................................... 15
Table 5.C:  Summary of Project Physical Achievements (1993-1998) ...................                                 ............. 17
Table 5.D: Environmental Monitoring ....................................................                                       21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations ............................                           ........................ 22
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project ....................................................                                  22
Table 8.A: Project Costs ....................................................                                                   24
Table 8.B: Project Financing ....................................................                                               24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................... 24
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                                      29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................ 31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................                                    31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................... 32
Annex 1: Aide-Mmoire of ICR Mission ....................................................                                             34
Annex 2: Borrower Comments on the Implementation Completion Report .............................. 35
MAPS: IBRD) Nos. 22598, 22599, 22600
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2229-BUR)
PREFACE
This document is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National
Environmental Management Project, for which Credit 2229-BUR in the amount of SDR 11.5
million (US$16.5 million equivalent) was approved on April 25, 1991 and became effective on
February 11, 1992.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998. The proceeds were used in their entirety,
the final disbursement taking place on April 22, 1999. The Governments of Germany, France
and Norway, as well as UNDP, provided cofinancing for the project.
The ICR was prepared by a Bank team headed by Dirk Prevoo (Rural Development
Sector Unit 3, Africa Region)2 and by a team from the executing agency headed by Mr. Albert
Djigma, and was reviewed by Messrs. Jean-Paul Chausse (Sector Manager) and Hasan Tuluy
(Director of Operations). The views of the Borrower and the cofinanciers were solicited. The
Borrower's comments on the ICR are attached to the report. No comments were received from
the cofinanciers.
The report is based on the conclusions of a project completion mission conducted in
February 1999 as well as on data contained in the project files.
2Other team members included Isabelle Girardot-Berg (AFTR3) and Emmanuel Nikiema (AFMBF).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2229-BUR)
EVALUATION SUIMMARY
Introduction
1.    The agricultural sector is essential to national food security and is the largest sector of
Burkina Faso's economy and the main source of its exports. Ongoing growth of this sector is
clearly a prerequisite for the country's balanced socioeconomic development. However, it is
threatened by serious environmental problems. A new strategy was tested with donor support,
namely the community-based land management approach to natural resource management. This
approach is based on community participation, and uses as its primary tool a land management
plan designed by the commnunity with the help of a multidisciplinary team. The tests culminated
in this project.
Project objectives
2.    The project was the first five-year phase of a long-term program to last 15 to 20 years.
The main objective of this program is "to halt and reverse the current process of degradation of
natural resources in order to ensure lasting agricultural growth, restore biological diversity, and
establish a long-term method of forest and wildlife management," with the underlying goal of
reaching the majority of the country's rural communities within the program period.
Specifically, the project aimed to: (i) apply the community land management approach on a
larger scale by helping rural commnunities to design and carry out plans for the sustainable
management of their land and natural resources; (ii) monitor natural resource management
activities in order to disseminate best practices; and (iii) monitor changes 'm environmental
conditions. The project included the following components: (i) definition, preparation and
implementation of community land management plans in three provinces representing the
country's distinct agricultural and ecological regions); (ii) preparation and implementation in
two provinces of combined land management plans for reserve forests and surrounding land;
(iii) provision of technical support for natural resource management operations already in
progress in 18 provinces (supplementary and limited support in the areas of training,
environmental monitoring, selective surveys or studies, and map making, targeting 1,000
communities); (iv) creation of a national environmental monitoring system and of a system for
assessing impact at the project level; (v) human resources development; and (vi) project
management and studies. A seventh component (communication, environmental education and
documentation) was added in 1992 with German support and cooperation.



iii
3.    Though the objectives were well defined and responsive to the country's needs and to
Bank strategy, they were highly optimistic. The slow pace of the initial execution of the project
had not been anticipated, though administrative delays had been anticipated while the
community land management approach was still in the testing stage. The Bank's decision to
exclude social and socioeconomic investment contributed to the slow pace, as did rigorous
procurement procedures with very low ex ante review thresholds. Furthermore, no provision had
been made for implementing a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project's overall objectives were fully achieved. Substantial results were obtained in
mobilizing communities for water and soil conservation, pasture management, and participatory
management of reserve forests.3 More than 75 percent of the villages targeted built rock bunds
and dug manure pits and are satisfied with the results. Close to 170,000 plants have been
produced in village nurseries and planted in individual reforestation areas (200 hectares) or
collective reforestation areas (200 hectares), with a survival rate of approximately 50 percent. In
terms of pasture management and support for animal production, 30,153 ha were managed in
five areas of pasture or mixed woods and pasture in or between villages in three provinces, 1 1 0
km of seasonal migration corridors were created, 1 10 km of livestock paths and watering areas
were created, four vaccination centers were established, and many stock-fattening operations
were supported (13,000 head of cattle and sheep). In addition, 6,000 inhabitants of villages (men
and women) benefited from varied technical training, generally related to the investments made.
The main weakness of the project was the environmental monitoring component, which failed to
reach its objectives. A M&E unit was, however, added to the implementing agency, which has
been able to increasingly take on the roles that were assigned to the environmental monitoring
component
5.    Implementation was initially slow, but this was corrected after the mid-term review,
which recommended the use of contractors and NGOs for project implementation and in addition
agreed to the eligibility of socio-economic microprojects. Procurement was slow during the
implementation of the project due to the combined effect of cumbersome public procedures and
slow Bank follow-up.
6.    The overall results of the project are satisfactory, which is conform the F590/PSR ratings.
No economic evaluation was presented in the Staff Appraisal Report. As the project did not
maintain a regular follow-up on financial impact of productive investments, it is not possible to
make an estimate of the impact of the microprojects on rural income. A participatory survey was
carried out by the M&E unit in 1998 to measure project impact on the basis of four indicators
(living conditions, local capacity development, status of natural resources and the institutional
environment). The survey concluded that for each of these indicators, beneficiaries felt there
was a positive change of between 10 to 35 as a result of the project.
3 The results presented in this paragraph cover only the 1992-1997 period, since the investments funded in 1998
were not included in the participatory study carried out in 1998. Almost half the village investments were made in
1998.



iv
7.    The sustainability of the project in terms of institutional strengthening and investmnents is
uncertain. Success in bolstering the capacity of village-based organizations to manage the
investments made through the project is a long-term process that cannot be completed during the
lifetime of a single project. The second phase of the PNGT takes this concern into consideration
and will continue the process of strengthening beneficiary capability by employing an integrated
development approach (literacy, management, organization, etc.). The second phase will also test
for more effective means of intervention, so that implementation can take place on a larger scale
and eventually cover the entire country.
8.    Performance by the Borrower and the implementing agency was satisfactory at all stages
of the project cycle. The Bank's performance was satisfactory at the design stage, unsatisfactory
at the appraisal stage, and marginally satisfactory during project supervision.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    A second phase is under preparation. While drawing lessons from the first phase (see
below), the new project will be designed as an Adaptable Program Loan over a 15-year period, to
address the need for sustained intervention in order to ensure the lasting impact at village level,
both in regard to human and organizational capabilities and in terms of maintaining physical
investments. The new project will apply more cost-effective approaches to assisting villages and
support the Government's recently promulgated decentralization law.
10.   The principal lessons to be drawn from the first phase are the following: (i) Attention
must be given to ensuring that the community land management plan leads quickly to the
assumption of responsibility by villages/communities. This produces a more lasting and further-
reaching impact. Operationally, this requires strengthening the community's technical, financial,
and organizational capabilities;  (ii) Community organizations should be given greater
responsibility and strengthened so that communities can establish their priorities not only by type
of investment/activity, but also in relation to a budget determined at the outset. This approach
will make it possible to prevent too high a priority being given to large investments with limited
benefits. In this respect, it is imperative for such a project to help beneficiaries put together the
necessary information that will guarantee equal access to project-related benefits; (iii) It is
important to incorporate the fimancial dimension into the natural resource management approach,
especially for those activities that generate revenue, and to strengthen the capabilities of target
communities in this respect (preparation of budgets, cash management, etc.) in order to create the
conditions conducive to the long-term sustainability of project investments; and (iv) Project
activities must be planned in a realistic way. Many of the delays affecting first-phase activities
were traceable to cumbersome procedures. It is clearly necessary to institute multi-year planning
and start the preparation of bidding and pre-qualification documentation well before the
effectiveness date.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2229-BUR)
PART I. REVIEW OF PROJECT EXECUTION
A. Introduction
1.    The agricultural sector is essential to national food security and is the largest sector of
Burkina Faso's economy and the main source of its exports. Ongoing growth of this sector is
clearly a prerequisite for the country's balanced socioeconomic development. However, it is
threatened by serious problems: (a) an approximately 200-km isohyetal shift southward over the
past 40 years increases the risks to agricultural production associated with random variation in
precipitation; and (b) reduced ground cover caused by use of land for domestic energy
production and for planting of new crops to satisfy the needs of a growing population. The
Burkina Faso authorities have adopted a number of important measures over the years to
improve natural resource management and deal with demographic, agricultural and
environmental problems. Between 1986 and 1990, a series of pilot projects was conducted in
various parts of the country with the support of donors (Germany, France, Norway and IDA) and
NGOs in order to test a new strategy for intervention in the rural environment, namely the
community-based land management approach to natural resource management. This approach is
based on community participation, and uses as its primary tool a land management plan designed
by the community with the help of a multidisciplinary team. This plan lays down the rules that
are to govern access to and exploitation of the community's collective assets, and defines
projects for improving both collectively and individually owned land.
2.    The preliminary results of these pilot projects were promising enough to produce a
consensus between the Government and donors on the fact that the community-based land
management approach was an effective and lasting way of improving natural resource
management. In addition, it was recognized that even though more experience with this approach
was necessary, launching of the National Environmental Management Project (PNGT) was
justified.
B. Project Objectives
3.    The project was the first five-year phase of a long-term program to last 15 to 20 years.
The main objective of this program is "to halt and reverse the current process of degradation of
natural resources in order to ensure lasting agricultural growth, restore biological diversity, and
establish a long-term method of forest and wildlife management," with the underlying goal of
reaching the majority of the country's rural communities within the program period.



2
Specifically, the project aimed to:
(i)   Apply the community land management approach on a larger scale. As a corollary to this,
the project also aimed to help rural communities design and carry out plans for the
sustainable management of their land and natural resources. The content of the project
was to depend largely on the needs of the beneficiary communities, which meant that it
would need to have built-in flexibility.
(ii)   Monitor natural resource management activities in order to disseminate best practices.
(iii)  Monitor changes in environmental conditions.
The project incorporated the following components:
(a) Definition, preparation and implementation of complete community land management
plans in three provinces representing the country's distinct agricultural and ecological
regions (a total of 120 communities in the provinces of Gnagna, Kenedougou and
Kouritenga);
(b) Preparation and implementation in two provinces of combined land management plans
for reserve forests and surrounding land (47 communities in the provinces of Houet and
Bougouriba);
(c) Provision of technical support for natural resource management operations already in
progress in 18 provinces (supplementary and limited support in the areas of training,
environmental monitoring, selective surveys or studies, and map making, targeting 1,000
communities);
(d) Creation of a national environmental monitoring system and of a system for assessing
impact at the project level;
(e) Human resources development;
(f) Project management and conduct of studies.
A seventh component - that of communication, environmental education and
documentation - was added in 1992 with Gernan support and cooperation.
4.    Though the objectives were well defined and responsive to the country's needs and to
Bank strategy, they were highly optimistic. The slow pace of the initial execution of the project
had not been anticipated, though administrative delays had been anticipated while the
community land management approach was still in the testing stage. The Bank's decision to
exclude social and socioeconomic investment contributed to the slow pace, as did rigorous
procurement procedures with very low ex ante review thresholds. Furthermore, no provision had
been made for implementing a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.



3
C. Achievement of Objectives
5.    Overall, the first phase of the PNGT achieved its objectives. A detailed evaluation of
each of the components is provided below.
C.1   Community land management in three provinces
6.    The specific objectives for this component were fully achieved. Expectations for this
component were far exceeded in terms of number of villages directly supported by the PNGT.
The project was able to compensate for the initial delays after the mid-term review. At the end of
1998, village investments were in progress in 202 villages (compared to 120 planned). During
the preparatory phase, basic data were collected in three provinces (Gnagna, Kouritenga and
Kenedougou). This information was used during the execution of the project to preselect villages
based on criteria defined before the project was launched. A Mobile Multidisciplinary Team was
created in each province to execute the project at the village level. Participatory assessments
were conducted in the preselected villages in order to identify the availability of village
resources, the main constraints on developing them, and the actions needed to overcome these
constraints. This information served as a starting point for measuring the impact of the project.
During the 1992-1996 period, assessments were made in 45 villages only - far fewer than the
120 planned. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) recommended the use of NGOs and private
contractors for carrying out the assessments and during 1996-1997, 157 participatory
assessments were conducted.
7.   Investments were to be defined during project implementation together with the
communities through participatory assessments. Selection criteria were, however, defined at the
start of the project to guide selection. Socioeconomic investments were initially excluded,
though the villages expressed a need for such investments. After the MTR, these types of
investments were included in order to respond better to the needs of the beneficiaries.
Microprojects included soil fertility/erosion control (rock bunds, soil fertility restoration, manure
pits, wind breaks, protection of river banks and bottomland development), pastoral (identification
and demarcation of pastoral areas and corridors, and restoration and creation of grazing areas),
support for vegetable production (supply of seeds, small vegetable gardens, and larger
commercial gardens), support for animal production (dairy production, animal shelters,
marketing, pisciculture, beehives, fodder production, etc.), water supply (both for human and
animal consumption), roads (maintenance, repair and construction), social infrastructure (rural
maternities, literacy centers, schools, etc.), and economic infrastructure (vaccination centers for
cattle, solar drying, mills and presses, storage sheds, savings and loans, etc.) Most of the
investments were small-scale microprojects that were carried out by the beneficiaries themselves,
wvith the project supplying the materials. For large investments (e.g. bottomland development),
the project acted as project manager with the assistance of private contractors. In 1997-1998, the
project piloted the implementation of medium-sized projects by the beneficiary communities.
Eight medium-sized projects (under US$12,000 each) were thus executed. These tests showed
the advantages of this approach: greater assumption of responsibility on the part of the
beneficiaries and more rapid execution, since public procurement procedures did not apply. The
communities showed a great deal of enthusiasm and willingness to assume responsibility.



4
8.    A large number of microprojects were identified with the beneficiaries and executed in
the context of the project.  An average of 12 microprojects was executed in each
community/village. The type of microproject varied greatly among the three provinces (see a
detailed list in Part II, Tables 5.B and 5.C). The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated the
average level of investment per village at US$50,000. This level was not achieved, the
cumulative value of the microprojects carried out by the project, excluding the contribution of
the beneficiaries, is estimated at US$4.5 million to US$5.0 million, or US$20,000 per village.
The discrepancy between the planned and actual levels is explained by the devaluation of the
CFA franc (CFAF) in January 1994, which reduced the costs of the microprojects, and the delays
in project execution until 1996. It is clear that the pace of execution improved after the MTR. In
1998, the average level of investment per village for the project reached US$10,000.
C.2   Combined land and forest management plans
9.    This component was located in the province of Houet (the reserve forest of Maro and the
18 neighboring villages, as well as the reserve forest of Mare aux Hippopotames and the six
neighboring villages) and the province of Bougouriba (around the reserve forest of Nabere and
the provisional wildlife reserve of Nabere and the 23 neighboring villages). This component
employed a method of management that included comprehensive management and conservation
plans for the reserve or protected forests and community land management plans for the nearby
areas. The initial objectives of the project were surpassed with the inclusion of the reserve
forests of Tuy and Dan, and the increased number of villages that benefited from project actions.
10.   The tools to carry out the management plans were developed by the Technical Forestry
Team with support from the Forest Management Unit. The tools used for the reserve forests
were inventories of plant resources, maps, aerial photographs, defining and demarcation of
boundaries, etc. Between 1992 and 1996, 46 assessments were performed in the 46 regions
adjoining the reserve forests. After the MTR, the number of assessments grew appreciably
through the use of contractual services and the area of intervention was enlarged. With the
inclusion of the two reserve forests of Tuy and Dan and the creation of larger contiguous zones
around the reserve forests, 187 supplementary assessments were conducted. This approach made
it possible to include the creation of corridors for the migration of elephants, transhumance
corridors, demarcation of grazing areas, reforestation, etc. Other micro projects were in general
similar to the ones described in paragraph 7.
11.   The investment plans in these two provinces clearly showed the different constraints and
priorities between villages in forest areas and villages in the other provinces. More microprojects
were executed, but with an average cost greater than for the microprojects funded under the first
component, partly because of their scale (reforestation, access roads, fire gaps, etc.). In addition,
the types of microproject were more varied. On average, 30 microprojects with an average value
of CFAF 16.6 million (about US$31,000 equivalent) were carried out by villages in the areas
targeted by the project, reflecting different priorities and a slightly higher implementation
capacity.
12.   The project attempted to support voluntary migration from the reserve forest areas to
other regions. Rather than waiting for support from the project, some families settled outside the
"welcome zones." A review was conducted by the Bank to make sure that the rights of the



5
families were respected. The review concluded that there had been administrative delays, but that
all rights had been respected. Approximately 627 families moved voluntarily.
C.3   Technical support in 18 provinces (coordination)
13.   The specific objective for this component was to provide additional technical support to
other projects that are in progress in the 18 provinces, with funding from other lenders. The
report estimated that approximately 1,000 villages would benefit from such support. Generally
speaking, this component has achieved its objectives. A great many coordination and support
activities were initiated by the PNGT or have received support from the project - such activities
as: participation in evaluation committees; planning other community land management projects;
technical support to projects; coordination meetings at the subregional, national, provincial and
inter-village level; national and international conferences and workshops; training of partners;
etc. Seventeen training sessions were organized at the request of partners between 1992 and
1997. It was not possible for the ICR mission to estimate the number of projects or villages that
have benefited from this support, or to determine from the accounting records the amount spent
on these activities (US$1.4 million, according to the estimate in the staff appraisal report).
C.4   Environmental monitoring
14.   The specific objective of this component was to make a systematic study of changes in
land use over the last 40 years. Initially, it also included impact monitoring on a sample of land
areas in partnership with the National Agricultural Research Institute (INERA). The objective of
the component was not met. The activities executed in environmental monitoring related
principally to the production of cartographic materials (see Part II, Table 5.D). For this purpose,
it was necessary to acquire the technology that would make it possible to digitize existing maps,
mobilize institutional partners and negotiate protocols for collaboration. Institutional reforms
among the partners were to be carried out before the initiation of activities, which took longer
than planned. In addition, the slow pace at which procurement procedures for the acquisition of
satellite images and computer material resulted in delays in training staff and producing maps. In
addition, the ability to interpret maps is still little more than minimal.
15.   Monitoring and Evaluation. An M&E system had not been provided for in the initial
plans (paragraph 4). In 1993, M&E was introduced, but the initial focus was on arrangements
for documenting activities. Only in 1995 did the M&E system receive support from the Institute
of Applied Research on Development Methods, and a number of technical tools were introduced
(project brief, performance chart for monitoring physical output, status indicator matrix).
Between 1995 and the end of the first phase of the project, a number of improvements were
made in the system, such as impact assessment, coordination of codes and nomenclature between
the monitoring and assessment system and project records, and the determination of precisely
what data environmental monitoring should provide for the monitoring and assessment program.
Monitoring and assessment is now recognized as an internal decision-making tool. A unified
database combining M&E and financial data is planned for the next phase of the project.
16.  In 1996, the M&E unit organized a self-evaluation of the physical activities carried out
by the project between 1992 and 1995, and in 1997 for the 1992-1997. The data were
independently verified and judged reliable. The results are shown in Part II, Table 5. In



6
addition, a participatory evaluation was carried out in 1998, based on a sample of 15 villages in
the five provinces. The sample made it possible to cover 42 village organizations (of 17
different types, in terms of their principal activities), 41 training subjects (of the 50 present in the
entire project) and 42 microprojects (out of a total of 83 for the entire project). In the 15 villages
as a whole, the inhabitants indicated that there had been positive changes in improving food
security, soil fertility, increased knowledge as a result of training and field trips, creation of new
village-based organizations, increased agricultural production and increased income. The project
identified four indicators to measure impact: living conditions, local capacity development,
status of natural resources and the institutional environment. The survey concluded that for each
of these indicators, beneficiaries felt there was a positive change of between 10 to 35 percent as a
result of the project.
C.5   Human resource development
17.   The project was to be executed by existing institutions, which meant that training of staff
in the community land management approach was an important factor. This component achieved
its objective both from a quantitative and a qualitative perspective. Training activities are
summarized below:
* Project personnel: 23 mobile multidisciplinary team members received basic training
in the community land management approach, and 27 were trained in the accelerated
method of participatory research and project planning by objectives.
* Technical partners: Approximately 300 agents received at least one training session in
one of a number of areas.
. Producers: Nine to ten thousand producers were trained in all areas combined
(approximately 2,000 per province, or 20 per village).
* 1995-1996: 42 students and interns, including 20 from professional schools, 4 from
the university and 21 nonemployed university graduates.
* 1997-1998: 50 interns of all types.
* The OMU and the project's administrative entities, together with their sub-units,
benefited from appropriate and well-managed training. This consisted essentially of basic
training, augmented at times by field trips and short-term seminars.
18.   Training has had a positive impact on project irnplementation and significantly
strengthened the capacity of the implementing institutions. In the future, special emphasis
should be placed on increased awareness that beneficiaries need to train non-beneficiaries.
Emphasis also needs to be placed on increasing literacy to enhance greater assumption of
responsibility at the village level in implementing the community land management approach.
An in-depth study of the training offered during the first phase of the project will be funded
through the PPF for the second phase.



7
C.6   Project management and studies
19.   The specific objective of the management sub-component was the creation of an
operational management unit (OMU) and provincial operational management units (POMUs) in
each province targeted by the project. The OMU and POMUs were created as planned. The
principal objectives of the POMUs were to coordinate activities and ensure that the resources for
carrying out the work were available. Two Forest Management Units were also created in the
provinces of Houet and Bougouriba for executing specific activities associated with combined
land and forest management. A Technical Forestry Team was also formed to provide technical
support to the Forest Management Units. In each province where the project is present, the
technical personnel of the Forest Management Units and/or POMUs constitute a Mobile
Multidisciplinary Teams. The objectives were fully achieved.
20.   Studies. Five major studies were outlined in the staff appraisal report. During execution, a
hundred studies were carried out, excluding the village assessments. The total expenditure on
studies was in excess of CFAF 1.5 billion (approximately US$3 million) as compared with an
anticipated CFAF 800 million (adjusted to take the 1994 devaluation into account). A partial list
of the studies is given in Part II, Table 7.
21.   However, the way study findings are organized does not make it possible to take full
advantage of the information. The documentation center's database does not take into account
that 30 percent of the studies cited in the annual reports, as well as certain other documents, are
difficult to locate (at the provincial or national level). In addition, the studies were not always
designed to serve as sources of information for communication, training or coordination
activities. The objectives of the studies sub-component were thus only partially achieved.
C.7   Communication, environmental education and documentation
22.   This component was developed with German support and cooperation after the project
began. Among the activities carried out in the framework of the communication sub-component
were radio and television broadcasts, articles in specialized journals, marketing support,
theatrical pieces, booths at exhibitions, and community land management glossaries in local
languages. This sub-component contributed to disseminating the community land management
concept. The environmental education sub-component produced teaching materials adapted for
school children and for the training 434 teachers and educational counselors. Altogether, 8,544
school children and 434 teachers and counselors, belonging to 274 primary schools in 18
provinces, as well as four professional institutes and 294 interns, benefited from the program.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
D.1   Factors beyond the Government's control
23.   The only factor beyond the Government's control was the poor rainfall in 1997-1998, but
this affected project activities only slightly.



8
D.2   Factors dependent on the Government
24.   The main factors that affected the project adversely were the delays in makiing
counterpart funds available and the low thresholds for approval of procurement procedures. The
comparatively rigorous national procedures are used only for procurement of goods and services
in amounts above CFAF 1 million (US$2,000).
D.3   Others
25.   Mid-Term Review. The MTR was held in November 1994. It was well executed with
appropriate expertise (except for procurement). The main recommendations of the MTR mission
were to make socioeconomic investments eligible for project funding and to use contractual
services to implement the project, rather than to solely rely on the MMTs.  These
recommendations had a very positive impact on project implementation. In addition, it properly
established the M&E unit and laid the framework for its mandate.
26.   Procurement. One of the major reasons for the initial delay in project execution was the
procurement procedures required by the Bank,4 combined with low national thresholds for public
contracts approval mentioned above, and this meant that the project had to follow onerous
procedures for relatively small amounts. The problem was compounded by an inexplicable and
inexcusable delay on the Bank's part in responding to the project's requests for non-objection
(months in some cases). In addition, the Bank had not amended the procurement procedures after
the MTR, when it could have applied the new, more flexible procedures, better adapted to this
type of project.
27.   Financial/administrative  management.    The  project's  financial/administrative
management was satisfactory, and audit reports were submitted within the term set in the
Development Credit Agreement. In addition, the auditors' opinions were favorable throughout,
and their recommendations were implemented by the project. A general computerized
accounting and budget system was put in place in 1992, but because of the shortcomings of the
software another program was installed in 1994. However, this second program does not allow
cost accounting, a disadvantage which should be corrected before the PNGT second phase
begins.
28.   Legal covenants. All Development Credit Agreement covenants were observed.
29.   Consulting services. The project used a large number of consultants and contractors for
assistance in executing the project, implementing the M&E system, conducting studies,
organizing training modules, etc. The services were generally of satisfactory quality.
30.   Project costs andf/unding sources. At the appraisal stage, the total cost of the project was
estimated at US$25.2 million. The real cost of the project is estimated today at US$19.6 million,
including funding of US$15.0 million from IDA. The difference between the anticipated and
actual costs can be explained by the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994 and the initial
4These initial delays were the basis for the Bank's decision to move the Credit closure date from June 30, 1997 to
December31, 1998.



9
implementation delays. The data and details related to project cost and funding appear in Tables
8.A to 8.B. The project appraisal report did not include an economic analysis, and thus the
project did not collect data for such an analysis. As a result, it is not possible to calculate the rate
of economic return for the project overall or of the microprojects.
E. Project Sustainability
31.   The sustainability of the project in terms of institutional strengthening and investments is
uncertain. Success in bolstering the capacity of village-based organizations to manage the
investments made through the project is a long-term process that cannot be completed during the
lifetime of a single project. The second phase of the PNGT takes this concem into consideration
and will continue the process of strengthening beneficiary capability by employing an integrated
development approach (literacy, management, organization, etc.). The second phase will also test
for more effective means of intervention, so that implementation can take place on a larger scale
and eventually cover the entire country.
F. Performance of the Bank
32.   The Bank's performance during design conception and preparation of the project was
satisfactory, notably with respect to coordination with the other donors and piloting of the
community land management approach. The Bank's performance during project appraisal,
however, was not satisfactory. The omission of socioeconomic investments and an M&E system
were project design weaknesses.
33.   The Bank's performance during supervision was marginally satisfactory over all. The
distribution of specialties was appropriate, with the exception of procurement, and sufficient time
was devoted to on-site visits, in particular during the first, crucial years of execution. The
amendment of the Development Credit Agreement following the mid-term review corrected the
weakness in project design related to socio-economic investments. Other weaknesses related to
the assistance in procurement, delays in establishing the M&E system and operationalizing the
recommendation of studies.
G. Performance of the Borrower and the Executing Agency
G.1  Performance of the Borrower
34.   The performance of the Borrower in the preparation and execution of the project was
satisfactory over all. The Government participated regularly in project preparation, appraisal, and
supervision missions. The project management committee held regular meetings to examine and
approve planning documents and financial statements. The Government also ensured that
sufficient human resources were placed at the disposal of the project and that supervision
mission recommendations were implemented. The three weak points in the Government's
performance were: delays in making national counterpart funds available; failure on the part of
INERA and the Burkinabe Geographic Institute to respect the agreements on environmental
monitoring; and application of national procurement procedures to relatively low-value
contracts.



10
G.2   Performance of the Executing Agency
35.   The performance of the project OMU was satisfactory. Execution of the components
under the control of the OMU was effective. The results of the community land management and
combined land and forest management components exceeded the objectives. The OMU now has
an M&U unit that is closely monitoring the impact of village investment activities. Financial
management was satisfactory. The delays in execution of the environmental monitoring
component were beyond the control of the OMU. The OMU's main weakness was
operationalizing recommendations of some studies.
H. Assessment of Outcome
36.   The overall results of the project are satisfactory in that the project generally achieved its
objectives. Substantial results were obtained in mobilizing communities for water and soil
conservation, pasture management, and participatory management of reserve forests.5 More than
75 percent of the villages targeted built rock bunds and dug manure pits and are satisfied with the
results. Close to 170,000 plants have been produced in village nurseries and planted in individual
reforestation areas (200 hectares) or collective reforestation areas (200 hectares), with a survival
rate of approximately 50%. In terms of pasture management and support for animal production,
30,153 ha were managed in five areas of pasture or mixed woods and pasture in or between
villages in three provinces, 110 km of seasonal migration corridors were created, 110 km of
livestock paths and watering areas were created, four vaccination centers were established, and
many stock-fattening operations were supported (13,000 head of cattle and sheep). In addition,
6,000 inhabitants of villages (men and women) benefited from varied technical training,
generally related to the investments made.
37.   The project had no component specifically designed to support women. However, women
were involved in all project activities, as the community land management approach requires
participation by all stakeholders (men, women, and young people). Women individually, or
organized into women's groups, participated actively in the fight against erosion, in forest
management (including reforestation activities and exploitation of fuelwood), introduction of
improved cooking stoves, and creation of socioeconomic infrastructure.
1. Future Operations of the Project
38.   A second phase is under preparation. While drawing lessons from the first phase (see
below), the new project will be designed as an Adaptable Program Loan over a 15-year period, to
address the need for sustained intervention in order to ensure the lasting PNGT impact at village
level, both in regard to human and organizational capabilities and in terms of maintaining
physical investments. The new project will apply more cost-effective approaches to assisting
villages and support the Government's recently promulgated decentralization law.
5 The results presented in this paragraph cover only the 1992-1997 period, since the investments funded in 1998
were not included in the participatory study carried out in 1998. Almost half the village investments were made in
1998.



11
J. Key Lessons Learned
39.   The principal lessons to be drawn from the first phase are the following:
(i)    Attention must be given to ensuring that the community land management plan leads
quickly to the assumption of responsibility by villages/communities. This produces a
more lasting and further-reaching impact. Operationally, this requires strengthening the
community's technical, financial, and organizational capabilities that are associated with
village investments.
(ii)   Community organizations should be given greater responsibility and strengthened so that
communities can establish their priorities not only by type of investment/activity, but also
in relation to a budget determined at the outset. This approach will make it possible to
prevent too high a priority being given to large investments with limited benefits. In this
respect, it is imperative for such a project to help beneficiaries put together the necessary
information that will guarantee equal access to project-related benefits.
(iii)  It is important to incorporate the financial dimension into the natural resource
management approach, especially for those activities that generate revenue, and to
strengthen the capabilities of target communities in this respect (preparation of budgets,
cash management, etc.) in order to create the conditions conducive to the long-term
sustainability of project investments.
(iv)   Project activities must be planned in a realistic way. Many of the delays affecting first-
phase activities were traceable to cumbersome procedures. It is clearly necessary to
institute multi-year planning and start the preparation of bidding and pre-qualification
documentation well before the effectiveness date.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2229-BUR)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial     Partial      Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                                  E                                                 IlE
Sector Policies                                    ]            [LI
Financial Objectives                           L                11            LiiE
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives                            [                L3                                 LI]
Poverty Reduction                                               [I            [I]C
Gender Issues                                                  LE]
Other Social Objectives                        [                [     EI-
Environmental Objectives                      [|                              [I |                  I]
Public Sector Management                       [    |                         LI]
Private Sector Management                      [                   ]                              [7]
Other (specify)                                [                   ]          KE
B. Project Sustainability                          Likely                Unlikely             Uncertain
O    F                                         E
C. Bank Performance                                Highly             Satisfactory            Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                      [O FO
Preparation Assistance                              []                    m]
Appraisal                                           [I                   []
Supervision                                         D]                   EC                          ]



13
D. Borrower Performance                        Highl             Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                     [1                 [7  
Implementation                                                      7] [Z]
Covenant Compliance                                                F [ 
Operation (if applicable)                       III
E. Assessment of Outcome                      H           Satisfactory  Unsatis-    Highly Unsatis-
Satisfactory             factory       factory
Li]             E]             l]L
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan title and                           Purpose                         Year approved         Status
number
Previous
Operations
Credit 1979-BUR       Strengthening of national outreach services                 1989             closed
Agricultural Services
Project
Credit 1896-BUR       Support for the National Research Institute                 1988             closed
Agricultural Research
Project
Subsequent Operations
Credit 2381-BUR       Support for Strengthening the juridical and institutional   1992             closed
Sectoral Adjustment    environment
Credit
Credit 2414-BUR       Support for village activities connected to increasing food  1993           ongoing
Food Security Project  security
Loan 2974-BUR         Strengthening of national outreach services and support for  1998           ongoing
PNDSA                 rural organizations
Credit 3161-BUR       Support for development of small-scale private irrigation   1999            ongoing
Project to promote
private irrigation



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned              Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification (Analytical summary of the                            January 14, 1987
project)                                                                                      I
Preparation                                                          1987-1990
Appraisal                                                            June 1990
Negotiations                                                         February 1991
Development policy statement (if
appropriate)                                                                                  I
Board Presentation                                                   April 25, 1991
Signing                                                              May 15, 1991
Effectiveness                         August 15, 1991                February 11, 1991
Project Completion                    June 30, 1997                  December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                          December 31, 1998              December 31, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92      FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96            FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal Estimate      2.00      3.80      6.00      9.00     12.00     15.00     16.50     16.50
Revised Estimate        0.83      1.76      3.22      4.71      7.15      9.90     13.90     16.50
Actual                  0.83      1.76      3.23      4.73      7.68     10.44     13.06     14.58
I Actual as % of         41.5      46.3      53.7      52.3      64.0      69.6      79.2      88.4
estimate
Actual as % of revised   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    107.4    105.5         94.0      88.4
estimate
Date of fmal
disbursement:          April 22, 1999



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5.A: General Data
Objectives                 Achieved end,        Achieved end
._______________________________       December 1996         December 1996
Community land                  120 villages (December 31, 1996)
management in 3 provinces
- Gnagna                                                               15                   81
- Kouritenga                                                           16                   52
- Houet                                                                14                   70
Combined land and forest         47 villages (December 31, 1996)
management plans
- Houet
- Bougouriba                                                           19                    78
27                  155
Technical support for                           1.000 villages    not available         not available
projects in progress in other
provinces
Table 5.B: Main Types of Investments
Category                                                             Number of villages
Reforestation (individual)                                                  135
Manure pits                                                                  80
Reforestation (collective)                                                   64
Rock bunds                                                                   62
Beehives                                                                     33
Support for marketing of wood products                                       32
Identification of pasture areas                                              29
Feed crop production                                                         27
Plant production                                                             26
Centers for monitoring and marketing of wood products                        26
Demarcation of pasture areas                                                 26
Opening/maintenance of reserve forests                                       26
Vegetable gardens                                                            25
Grazing                                                                      23






17
Table 5.C: Summary of Project Physical Achievements (1993-1998)
ACTIVITIES
ACTIONS                                         1993/1994        1994/1995       1995/1996        1996/1997      1997/1998        1998      TOTAL PNGT
CES/ DRS
Rock bunds (ha)                                    272             393              366              549            988           1183            3.751
Zai -- a traditional West-African system for       14               31               23              54              57            721             900
restoration of degraded, semi-arid land (ha)                                                                                                                 l
Manure pits (number)                               529             490              362              648            1,435          840            4,304
Windbreaks (m)                                                     3,585                            10,615         6,800          56560          77,560
Filtration barriers (m3)                                                             1                              200                            201
Ravine treatment (m)                                                                250             1,400           906            750            3,306
Protection of riverbanks (km)                                       51               99                             150             3              303
Bottomland management                                                                                93              31                            124
PASTURAGE
iPasture areas identified (ha)                    2,000                            15,300                                                         17,300
Pasture areas demarcated (kin)                                      25               67              57             13.6                           163
Demarcation of pasture areas/paths (km)                             59               86                                                            145
Restoration of pasture areas (ha)                                                    90                              2                              92
Creation of grazing areas (no.)                                                      1                                                              3
Transhumance paths/corridors (km)                  11               59               19              21                                            110
MANAGEMENT OF RESERVE FORESTS
Demarcation (ktn)                                  70               69                               45                                            184
Surveys (km)                                        8               69               41              45                            84              247
Opening/maintenance of paths in reserve forests    100              83              220              129                                           532
(kmn)                                                                                                                                                        ll
Restoration of degraded areas in reserve forests (ha)              300              318              80             796.6           61            1,556
Firebreaks and forest trails (km)                  200              145             115              120                                           580
Controlled fires (ha)                    ~17,600                                   19,300           17,600         17,600         17600           89,700
Installation of observation towers (no.)         _                                   1                2                                             3
Concrete slab construction (no.)                       _                   _         2                2                                             4
RIBMH signs (no.)                                                   37               10              10                            69              126
VILLAGE WOODLOT MANAGEMENT
6 April 1998 - December 1998.



18
ACTIVITIES
ACTIONS                                        1993/1994        1994/1995       1995/1996       1996/1997       199711998       1998      TOTAL PNGT
Demarcation (km)                                                                  14.45            10.85          19.25          156             201
Surveying (km)/ road signs                                         8               9.40                                          36              53
Inventory of flora (ha)                                                                                                                                    l
Opening/maintenance of paths in reserve forests                    17              27               78                           36              158
(km)                                                                            _                          _                                               ll
Restoration of degraded areas in reserve forests (ha)                              50               70                                           120
Firebreaks and forest paths (kIn)                           .                                       9                            60              69
Controlled fires (ha)                                            12,400           12,400          12,400         12,400                        49,600
Crossing structures (no.)                                                                                           3                             3
SUPPORT FOR
EXPLOITATION/MARKETING OF WOOD
PRODUCTS                                                                                                                                                   l
Charcoal (sacks of 100)                                                                                    _                    8000            8,000
Control/marketing stations (no.)                   2               6                                                                              8
Exploited area (ha)                              239.50            196             159                            200                            795
REFORESTATION
Nursery production (no.)                           5               5                4               4               1             8              27
Plant production (no.)                           7,323           25,518           49,358          70,015         91,490         80584          324,288
Reforestation, individual (number of plants)     3,650            6,854           26,102          54,462         79,083         24658          194,809
Reforestation, collective (ha)                                                     23               8              64           97.2             192
Reforestation, collective (number of plants)                      200                             9,780          19,175         67712          96,867
Improved fire burning sources (no.)                                                154                            1,207         3322            4,683
Live fence (hedgerow) (m)                         875                                                             3,838                         4,713
SUPPORT FOR VEGETABLE PRODUCTION
Vegetable gardens (<ha) (no.)                      7               6               21               21             12            27              94
Commercial garden areas (>ha) (no.)                                                                                               6               6
Peanut seed (kg)                                                  1,400           8,410                                                         9,810
Rice seed (kg)                                     19                             1,238                          14,820         3560            19,637
Cashew seed (kg)                                                                                                  2,000         4750            6,750
SUPPORT FOR ANIMAL PRODUCTION
Dairy production sites ( no.)                                                       3               2               1                             6
Construction of feedlots (no.)                                     23                                                                            23
Support for feedlots ( number of animals)                         295              144             853            699            713            2,704
Feed crop production (ha)                        22.25            19.50           61.47           48.60            40            98              290



19
ACTIVITIES
ACTIONS                                          1993/1994        1994/1995        1995/1996       1996/1997       1997/1998        1998b      TOTAL PNGT
Mowing/conserv. of natural fodder                                                                     1,150          15,924         9386            26,460
Beehives (no.)                                      121              115              68               32             149            89              574
Support for marketing of honey (quantity)                            186             145                              367             1              699
Support for pisciculture (kg)                                                        9,680                           19,615                         29,295
Animal shelter (no.)                                 I                                                 1                                              2
Hay storage sheds
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
Road maintenance and repair (km)                                     40               53               49                            19.7            162
Crossing structures
- Bridges (no.)                                                                                                                                      11
- Concrete slabs (no.)                                                                        2                                              2
- Culverts (no.)                                                                              3                              1               4
Road/highway construction (km )                                                                                        20                             20
Road embankments (m)                                                                     _            270              35                            305
QUATIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Drilling (no.)                                                                         5               4               3              5               17
Drilling repairs (no.)                                                                 2               5               2              3               12
Wells ( no.)                                                          7                                                               2               21
Restoration of wells (no.)                                                             6                                                              6
Dams/Impoundments (no.)                                                                                I               2              5               8
Planning for drilling of artesian wells (no.)                         1
Repair of spillways (no.)                                                              1                              216                            217
Wells/drilling for pastures (no.)                                                     4                               26
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Rural maternity wards (no.)                                                                    I       I                              1                3
Literacy centers (no.)                                                                3                6               16             2               27
Supplying literacy centers (no.)II
School complex                                                                                                                        10              10
School classes (no.)                                                  3               4                18                                             25
Accommodations for teachers                                                                                                           2                2
CSPS (no.)                                                                                              1                             4                5
Supplying of CSPS                                                                                                                     1                1



20
ACTIVITIES
ACTIONS                                          1993/1994       1994/1995        1995t1996        1996/1997       1997/1998        1998      TOTAL PNGT
ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Vaccination centers (no.)                                             1               2                                                               3
Karite press (no.)                                                                                               _________            4               4
Mills (no.)                                                                            I                                              1               2
Solar drying sheds                                                                                                                   15               15
Soap molds                                                     _   _                                                                 70               70
Savings and loan institutions (no.)                    .                _                                                                   _
Stores for animal husbandry inputs (no.)                             2 _4                                                                             7



21
Table 5.D: Environmental Monitoring
Product                  Number                             Nature
General digital maps              6               Administrative, economic areas of Burkina, 30 provinces,
300 departments, transportation routes (1:1,000,000 and
1:500,000)
Specialized maps                  20 approx.      Ouaga, Bobo, Diapaga (1:200,000), reserve forests of Maro,
Nabere and Naborgane, Mare aux hippos, Tuy (1:20,000)
Forest plantation management units of Maro (1:50,000)
Land use (1:12,500, 1:50,000)
Forest riparian lands
Reserve forests and terroirs of Kadomba (1:40,000)
Land use, reserve forest of Dan (1:20,000)
Land use of village woodlots in Diarkadougou (1:20,000)
Use of Mouhoun riverbanks (1:20,000)
Use of Houet, Bougouriba lands (1:20,000)
Other cartographic designs, plans,  11            Cartography of manageable bottomland, photomosaics, photo
photomosaics.                                     interpretation, design and planning, village woodlot plan,
plan for woodland/pasture areas, land use study, forest
plantations of Maro
Data base                         5               Topographic data (1:100,000, 1:200,000), demographic
locations and data, land use, locating of community land
management projects, availability of water resources,
condition of the soil and ground cover, access to basic
infrastructure, revenue - level of productivity of resources.
Inventories                       5               Standardized nomenclature for land use, forestry and wildlife
(Nabere, Dan, Diarkadougou and Baborgane), and flora
(Gamboulsin).



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
1. Main operational indicators specified in the President's Report   Estimates  Actual
Any indicator not specified in the report President's Report
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project7
Study                                 Purpose as defined at appraisal     Status         Impact of study
or redefined
Preparatory studies                  Studies executed with advance    1989             Project preparation
Summary and analytical report on village  funding.
land management pilot projects.
Project for protection and valuation of  Idem                         1990             idem
forest cover in the South-West region,
provinces of Houet and Bougouriba:
Preparation report
PNGT follow-up and assessment
not defined                     1993              Preparation of the
follow-up
assessment
component
Execution of community land
managementplans
National land use nomenclature for   Identification of obstacles and key   1996        Follow-
construction of the land use data base.  reasons for success                           up/environmental
workshop
Major approaches to community land
management in Burkina Faso
Impact of the nomadic culture on the  notdefined                      1993             National workshop
natural resources and the chances of
increasing agriculture in the PNGT's area
of interventiion.                    notdefined                       1994             Workshop
Study on the community land
management approach and the impact of
the EMP's activities on the populations:
Perception of the inhabitants.
Integration of the gender perspective in
the community land management        not defined                      1994             Workshop
approach and actions.
not defined                     1994              Workshops and
adjustments in work
programs
7 Some one hundred studies were conducted. This table, therefore, can only provide a general overview.



23
Study                                Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status        Impact of study
or redefined
Review of the land use plan
Study on the issue of land use and  Review of the land use plan in  1993             National workshop
decentralization in Burkina.        order to identify the most
appropriate approaches for the
execution of community land
management plans and resolution
of conflicts between communities.
Study on relevance of designing     not defned                      1994             National Workshop
community land management plans, of
property law and of the implementation of
community land management plans: Vol.
1, General Report.
Proposed laws based on the new approach                             1995
to bush fires.                      not defined
The securing of land ownership in the
rural environment                                                   1998             National workshop
not defned                                      (work planning)
Training
Analysis of the effectiveness of training    Review of the effectiveness of  1994    Planning for
programs, dissemination programs aimed  training and communication                   training
at target groups in the implementation of   programs.
community land management in the
PNGT: Training component (1994)
Summary report on initial training of
members of the PNGT's MMT.                                          1992             Ibid.
Summary report on initial training of
members of the PNGT's MMT (1992)
Review of the
efifectiveness/approriateness of the
institutional arrrangements         not defined                     1995
Execution manual for the PNGT project.
not defined                    1993
Perception of the role of the Mobile
Multidisciplinary Teams by their local
and provincial partners. (1993)
Assessment of the first phase of the  not defined                   1997             Background
PNGT, 1992 -1997                                                                     document for the
preparation of the
second phase of the
program



24
Table 8.A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Categories                     Appraisal estimate   Categories used by the         Actual/latest estimate
_____________    PNGT                                                      X
Community land management             9,900         Investment, structures                3,135
(3 provinces)
Combined land and forest              7,500         Village investments                   7,480
management plans
Technical support (18                 1,400         Other investments (training,          4,935
provinces)                                          consultants' studies and
services)
Environmental monitoring              2,500         Operation                             4,050
Development of human                  1,300
resources
PNGT management                       2,500
Total costs                          25,200       1                             1         19,600
Table 8.B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                                 Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimate
IDA                                           16.5                       15.0
Federal Republic of Germany                    2.0                        0.6
France (CCCE)                                  1.5                        1.0
Norway                                         3.4                        2.0
UNDP_                                                                     0.5
Government                                     1.8                        0.6
TOTAL                                        25.2                        19.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project staff appraisal report did not provide an estimate of project costs and benefits. Given the lack of financial data,
an analysis of the financialVeconomic impact of the project is not possible.
 This amount excludes expenditures made directly by the GTZ.



25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original      Revised                       Description of Covenant                       Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status  Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
Credit
Credit Number: IDA: 22290
3.01      C                   06/06/1996     The Borrower shall carry out the Project as set forth in (a) Schedule  In compliance
2 under overall supervision of MAE and with the cooperation of
MET and MACP with due diligence and efficiency, and
(b)Schedule4 in accordance with the Implementation Program.
3.02      C                   06/06/1996     Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services shall be  In compliance
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement
3.03(a)    C                  06/06/1996     The Borrower shall establish (i) one Interniniste-rial Project  In compliance
Steering Committee (IPSC), (ti) five Provincial Tech. Coord.
Committees (PTCCs), (iii) one Project Operational Mgmt.
Unit(OMU) within MAE(iv) five Project Tech. Mgmt. Units
(PTMUs) in theprovincial directorates of MAE, and (v) two
ForestMgmt Units (FMUs) in the provincial directorates of MET.
3.03(b)    C                   06/06/1996    The Borrower shall maintain said IPSC, PTCCs, OMU,PTMUs and    In compliance
FMUs with functions, responsibilities and staff in adequate numbers,
all satisfactory to IDA.
3.04      CP                  06/06/1996     The Borrower shall conclude contractual arrange- ments satisfactory  In compliance
to IDA: (a) with IGB for the purpose of canying out Part D.1 of the
project; and (b) with IRBET and INERA for the purpose of carrying
out Part D.2 of the project.
3.05      C                   06/06/1996     The Borrower shall (a) by 12.31.93 carry out stud-ies referred ti  In compliance
under Part F of the project; (b) submit to IDA for review &
comments the results & recommendations of said studies ASAP; and
(c) promptly implement the recommendations of said studies as
agreed upon with IDA.
3.06      C                    06/06/1996    The Borrower shall ensure that any investment proposal to be   In compliance
financed under the Credit in the execution of Parts A & B of the
project shall be selected only in accordance with the selection
criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement
3.07(a)    C                   06/06/1996    The Borrower shall: (i) each year prepare project related work  In compliance
programs and budgets; (ii) submit them, not later than April 30 of
each year, to IDAfor its review and approval; and (iii) execute said
work progams as approved by IDA.
3.07(b)    C                   06/06/1996    The Borrower shall by June 30, 1994, carry out a mid-term review  In compliance
with IDA and promptly implement any measures required as a result
of said review.



26
Covenant  Present   Original      Revised                        Description of Covenant                        Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
4.01(a)    C                   06/06/1996     The Borrower shall maintain records & accounnts toreflect the    In compliance
operations, resources & expenditures of the departments or agencies
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
4.01(b)    C                   06/06/1996     The Borrower shall: (i) have the Project records &accounts incl.  In compliance
those for Special Accounts for eachfiscal year audited by
independent auditors accep-table to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA, NLT 6
months after the end of each FY, a certified copy of suchaudit
report; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit, at IDA's request.
4.01(c)    C                   06/0611996     From the statements of expentitures, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain    In compliance
records & accounts 4.01(a); (ii) retain records evidencing such
expenditures for I year after completion of audit; (iii) enablelDA to
examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records & accounts
are audited annually and separately and the audit reports contains a
sepa- rate opinion on reliability of SOEs.
Covenant types:                                                                     Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                       8. = Indigenous people                   C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
from beneficiaries                       10. = Project implementation not covered  CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds    by categories 1-9                     NC  not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                   I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or     other resource allocation
executing agency                         12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Enviromnental covenants                  regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement               13. = Other



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                Description of Case and Comments
Full compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$         Weeks        US$             Weeks       US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                         131      236,865
lAppraisal                                                                        43       92,908
Negotiations through Board                                                        15       34,209
approval
Supervision                                                                      164      410,114
Completion                                                                     N.A.         N.A.
Total                                                                   N.A.         N.A.



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating'
Stage of project cycle   Month/  No. of Days             Specialization'          Implem.    Developm.  TProes of
Year  Persons  in                                        Status     objectives
Field
Identification Mission        04/86    8       7     Leader, Land surveys, Geographer,  NR       NR
Agriculturalist (3), Economist
Preparation Mission 1         11186    4       15    Agriculturalist, CCE, FAO/CP, FED  NR       NR
(Post Identification)
Preparation Mission 2         03/87            N.A.  N.A.
Preparation Mission 3         08/87            N.A.  N.A.
Preparation Mission 4         11/87    3             Agroeconomist, Rep of Norwegian   NR        NR
Govt.
Preparation Mission 5         7/88     3       13    Agroeconomist, GTZ, CCCE        NR          NR
Preparation Mission 6         11/88    9       14    Agroeconomist, GTZ, FAO/CP,    NR           NR
IFAD, CCE, PATE CORE-GTZ
Preparation Mission 7         06/89                                                  NR          NR
Preparation Mission 8         11/89    6       25    Anthropologist, Mission Leader,    NR       NR
Rural Development Specialist (2),
Rural Sociologist, Project Manager
Preparation Mission 9         01/90            N.A.  N.A.                            NR          NR
Appraisal Mission             06/90            N.A.  N.A.
Supervision 1                 05/91    1             Env. Specialist                  I           I
Supervision 2                 03/92    2             Env. Specialist, Agroeconomist  I            I
Supervision 3                 11/92    1             Agroeconomist                    1           1
Supervision 4                 05/93    2             Env. Specialist, Agroeconomist    2          1           Procurement
Supervision 5                 11/93    1             Agroeconomist                   N.A.        N.A.
Supervision 6                 03/94    1             N.A.                            N.A.        N.A.
Supervision 5                 10/94    7             Financial management Spec.,     2           HS
Lawyer, Agr. Services Specialist,
Task Manager, Rep from Mali, Rep.
of CFD, Ecological Mon.



29
Performance Rating       T
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days              Specialization'           Implem.    Developm.   Tpes  3
Year  Persons  in                                         Status      objectives          s
Field
Supervision 6                  10/95    6              Financial Management Spec. , Nat.  S         S
Resources Management Specialists
(2), Agr. Services Specialist, Task
manager, Environmental Inf.
Specialist, .
Supervision 7                  05/96    2              Natural Resource Management      S           S
Spec., Task Manager
Supervision 8                  11/96    2       6      Natural Resource Management      S           S
Specialist, Ecologist (TTL)
Supervision 9                  03/97    5       11    Advisor (2), Ecologist, Natural   S           S             Monitoring
Resource Specialist, Researcher,                          and Evaluation
Supervision 10                 10/97    3       6      Ecologist (TTL), Natural Resource   S        S
Management Specialist,
Agriculturalist
Supervision 1                 04/98    2       6      Task Team Leader, Natural Resource S         S
Specialist
Completion
Total
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills:    2 - Key to Performance Ratings:                 3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                                    etc.                                            etc.



30
Annex 1: Aide-Minmoire of ICR Mission
The ICR mission left behind a draft report for comments by the executing agency instead
of an aide-memoire. Reference to the ICR was made in the aide-memoire left by the
preparation mission of the following project.



31
Annex 2: Borrower Comments on the Implementation Completion Report
-KUVL,e             SBg DE vU~t              g.1gs  (I&  VSO
~S ' i   -   ' R C U L '                                 U  ai v t  -  6  -
pIOIMME NAT          A~~L Dis GFST1ON
01 B? 1481 OUAGD 4OUGOU0l
-I. 3.47.53154 -       31-1 o31.74.1
Ouagadougou Xe 2 8    M  13
N- jAl;RT /SG'~                ~BtEsI-   PSJpDIR/SM
j, pN~GT
Cow.efk 'u                                       Se Dfc^ Lc Ii U6^L eMt0
W C d,p6%dcGs          =l d'CO'  Cr"bl 2U29 BUR)
Monsileur le Minisitre d' iLtat
MLigistre de P AgriCulture
Motsiejr le Ministre,
Parlette  n dte  u 1  ma \99~~AOt5IQ? e Rpr~ntalt  ,.idenlt de la Banque~ McindiaC 
adTSsC~ Mfl dux Xe  mainSt d99 M'Cfonsiu It RePfs F t- ntam   de, rappOrt de fin i' exi6cution
duprolettr dengsif dat terit. e apatifdes inzneSute Tj)7essU  r         6fcn   ont 6t6 adress6ltsa
evctefltCs du Gouvermesun.
g~ ~~ l rasSenu
qui a prs ai X 3a dcscLembnptjtdcStre i9~ a fl vupotret sgnatut pau onr I SefqU st0 d1e d'Eoit mte
eautlO~ee  par ce  gen re    de 1 Epinan"c               e sp u q
J'a6iL NIO'hf eur devO S i  Dsoam pliationpfs  de, a1I letr rapct        le~1Vts  con duXnfent5tre
padTiCUliCrS   dus btem  u    frr ue'   qu  srle dontlne q  duIt doeumet qtnsuisan   o me   u
du prauX deaiS P   NGoiT. La   Banqu ne M quo ed uP GTe   iem sinte a    uCU   ?oda..
Joa-ee oti   apee.inpOtdelttC a,"            -sgt.tX  ot              cbf~~terrEcKoI~ies
Veuilledz agrner, fonsicur Ic  riaSrr, I'exprssion   tie mes salutatlOos respectousesds
ecIaque,o   s a rmiepae  du Pfa.   Lal   aqe.so
pl:necopie   e  da  aion    N .P
dancttom6( PaIct                                                         endesenants = 
3-a Ihoceu     de 'u  are  uP's  Aci  le c( tt       55ddi docuRgn A8 ..   sot co nia 
s,r la ormc qu   Su~            .   n  Wa  anur4



32
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE                 ov                           Unirl . Pmogres - Justice
Ouagadougou, le
NO .....             AGRUSGAJGO.PNGT
Obiet: CommenLaires sur le Rappon de Fin d'ExcuLion
du Projct de Gestion des Terroirs ( Cr'dit Z229 BTRP)
Monsieur lc Ministre
de l'Economie et des Finances
Monsieur le Mlinistre,
Par lettre en daue du 19 mai 1999, Monsieur le Representant Resident de la Banque Mondiale a adresse a
Monsieur le Minisue de l'Economis at des Finances un projet de rappon de fin d'execurion du projet de gestion
des terroirs. Une ampliation de la lettre ci-dessus referencee m'a et6 adressee
J'ai P'horneur de vous informer qu'apres examen du rapport par mes services techniques, nous n avons pas
d'amendements parEiculiers, aussi bien sur la forme que sur le contenu dudit document qui sont conformes aux
travaux realises conjointemcnt par une cquipe du PNGT ea une mission de la Banque Mondiale.
Les acquis et atouEs relevis dans ce Rapport de Fin d'Execution qui concerne la prerniere phase du PNOT,
confirment encore le bien fonde de l'option du Gouvernement du Burkina Faso de poursuivre et de gineraliser
I'Approche gestion des Terroirs a travers une deuxicme phase du PNGT.
Quant aux insuffisances relevies, toutes les dispositions necessaires seronE p rises. lorsqu'elles sont du ressort de
la partie nationale. afin de garantir une execution encore meilleure pour la deuxinme phase en cours de
preparation.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur lc Ministre, I'expression de mes salutations distingu6es.
Pour le Ministre en mission
,                   C3,5   et par delegation
Le Secretaire G6nerae
Une copic de la ltre                        u* g
de la Banque Mondlate ,
ssa M.BMKIINGA



0                                  --------
BURKINA FASO 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                 9  UAA                                        AI.  IE
PRO JET NATIONAL DE GESTION DES TERROIRS                                                                       69
(                :GOrOm-GOrOIn                ~NIGER        ~ S-        1sgd
POPULATION, MIGRATION AND TRANSHUMANCE                                                                                                                                  3
POPULATION, MIGRATION ET TRANSHUJMANCE                                                                                                                               V-~0EtIVOIR .'0G5 
POPULATION DENSITY BY PROVINCE:L                                                                                                                                                       \~
DENSITE DE POPULATION PAR PROVINCE:.
INHABITANTS PER KM' (1983)                 )~~~~~)~A7,Efi~
140          IHABITANTS PAR KM5 (1983)                                               35                                                                                                         J
0
20                                                                                                                                       3                                Thuai    a  .m -,p h.. ben prepa..ed by
,                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The Wad Ba-ks htdf -ss.sssis
40                                                                                                                                                                        redr ah d isecisrt trth e
A                                           9R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~OSIp                                                                  eterna sa a Th. Wend Eas-k
and the W-rnhonl F-nsS
80  ,  I  4",  /  ,  r'r'  ,  I                              It   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  cl~~~~~A                          C.,~ICaperhe     Th. d -eenaien
-sd an fth b-iid-e sh.-e
enthis map as ..I estl n h
pad at Th. Wsld bask and We
sta-y -tentey o any
MALI              )h enasmetoiaspaeaa
~~~~~  '  u       -   I -\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   /                                              7~~~~~~~~~~~~t'
'7  /'   '~~~~~'  /'                                          QjJfQjj, @k0IEp~~~~~~~~~~ F~~'ag hO
120                        ~                                     ,~I                                                     "~-   KOfE                                                                    1
/SAA/G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ib4 
~~     '~~~~                                                              IJA~~~~~Tb~~~                                                           yr~;
-1 2~~~~ N'                                               '2 
N             n~~~~~ ~~~eq'~~~~~ ~~~' ~~BENIN
WEGAKORIMMIRTONE AREASPRVNECITL0 204 60 8
W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~6                                           INHABITANTSUPERCEM
FELUX MIMIGRADTPRORNCE
rtt                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEAYOMME GAIO   IESNATERNATIONIAL BUDRE
0                                 LIV~~~~~~~~~OEST OCK   MMGATO                  CRPNTALERE NATIONATLNAE
BETAIL                                                                                                 20~~~~~~6 INAITNSPE  M






IBRD 22599
BURKINA FASO2                                                                                                 ,_         -                    .ML       I JNGE
IS'   U'  4'       3'                                                                                                 5'   MAURITANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAINIE
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT.                                                               ,U.-                                                                        N
PROJET  NATIONAL  DE  GESTION  DES  TERROIRS                                                                                                                                 UR 'IA (t'  --    r FA$'>  -
S0 O9O :>yNIGERIA
PHYSICAL AND  ECOLOGICAL  FEATURES                                        ,-G9vom                                                                                 h  ?. -f
ASPECTS PHYSIQUES ET ECOLOGIQUES                                                                                                                    GUINEA                  2 '
- -   >\                        !                     *9          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/GHANA 01  
D'IVOIRE
T. M.  600 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                         
tio \ X / T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* _   2
6~~~~~, Ni-OyE  NNRIUME
msx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''U ISRVT IN                                                                                   -RILRAD
]25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VRG ANNUL RANAE                                                                               CHEMINS P E
A X JJ / X-; - ) 0 0 E T; 0 0  0 0 0 i t 0 X t   .         rE
,  X-  >      ,.  _   /-ir                >;, Sjo;02;\> [;-0S.\|;*P6   <   a X   < ;   t AP7 ;0<\                                                  BENIN~~~SAHUFP4E  CAITALNATINAE
T. K-o )I iHA UNEAN                                                                                                                                         . PAAVED ROUDARDS
~~~t   \>  do*#Jm l y SAH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-GIE ENNE                                                               PRN6RS INENATIONA CPTAL
OCTOBER 19V1






IBRD 22600
_ 1 5   6'                     5'Jo                                                           E                             uo                              l o    /   -* 3_ 5'  I'                                   _-  IS   EIAANRITANIb l z   <   -> RAN
BURKINA FASO/MLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,NGE
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                    .                                                  -                                    N I  AI N
PROJET NATIONAL DE GESTION DES TERROIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEiIGEI
PROJECT SITES LOCATION                                                                                            r                                   _                             ,                                             C1TE
LOCALISATION DES SITES DU PROJET                                                                                                                                                                                                           V cOIRE /GHANA( )
_1 *                  PILOt PROJECT INTERVENTION AREAS:                                                                 600
ZONES DINTER VENTION DES PROJETS P'LOTES                                                                                                                                                                              Ni.'y
C)PATECORE (7 VILLAGES) 
(2)  NIENA DIONKELE (11 VILLAGES)
CRPA MOLUHOUN IS VILLAGES)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
2   FARA POURA S2 VILAGESI
L' UP) ZORGHO (15 VILLAGES)
?) UPIO DIEBOUGOU (23 VILLAGES)                                                                                                                             SAN5AYm N
*E3 CRPA HAUTS 6ASSINS (4 VILLAGES)                                                                                                              r' A
PROJECT INTERVENTION AREAS                                                                                                3k                                           T                     S      /-."'                           4
COMMUNITY LAND MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS                                                                           PA
OPERATIONS DE GESTION DES TERROIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T. Nlr,,,
APPULAUXPROTJETS EXISTANRTD                                                                          kPEEC
COMEINED POREST APND COMMUNITY
LA AND MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS                                         K 0      I
OPERATIONSC COIINEESVE GESTONE DV
FORETTS EDE VEERRCORS
ro PTOvIhb 1000  _t                                       &,                                                           g      n       o         $                        /      A    /         Y             a PG  
-12                                                                                                                                    <                                                                                                                                              M)T e    I A/ 0 A  
IL,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
rBOUGOUDou)a></J   4    /  \>                         XAFlS;IJX                                              /TOO                                                     BENIN
t   :   '   "-.  4  wf  G  A  N  v T O G O j = ROUTES E/ UMEES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OG                                                                                    RUT STUEE
G             H            A            N            AIUNPAVED ROADIS
ROUTES NON-RITUMEES
RAILROADVS
r_/t~<   i   Xh   E   \t  (   p   A\N    | \   E   ,                                                                                                             CHEMINS VTE FER
G-u.                                                     -600 ISOHYETS IN MM                                     AI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UROPORTS
0 C  C |M  o  X      /       SfG==u=               L           r                                                                              AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL)                          AERS
ISGAHETES EN VMM                                 RIVERS
(PRECIPITATIONS ANNUDELLES MOYENNES)              COURS S EAU
13'                                      r= ALidic     <        ti  il               StR                2                  <                                                                                            ECOLOGICAL ZONES                             @   cNATITONALCAPTNAPITAL
____________________________                                    3555                                                                              ZONED ECOLOGIOSES,                               CAPIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALT NACVPONALETIOAL
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                        "'    SAHELAN                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
0SAHELAENNE                                     CAPITALES PROYINCIALES
a~ SUDANIAN                   ~'-PROVINCE BOUDNARIES
LSUDANAISE                                      LIMITES DE PROVINCES
.D I   SUDANO-GUINEAN NINTERNATIONAL EONDARI
A'                                                    ,,~~~~~~~~C6D i                                                                                                                     SOVUANO-GUINEENNE                               PRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
1'    T'                               1'                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER 1990



