Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2229 BUR
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
of the Kingdom of Norway
in Conjunction with the Environmental Management Project
in
BURKINA FASO
Dated May 4, 1992
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2229 BUR
 AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 1992, between the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 
the Kingdom of Norway (Norway) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) to provide for the administration by the Association of certain funds to 
be made available by Norway to Burkina Faso.
WHEREAS (A) the Agreement, dated October 2, 1986, among Norway, the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association provides the 
framework for cooperation in the financing of development projects by the parties 
thereto;
(B)
Norway wishes to make available to Burkina Faso a grant in the amount of 
twenty million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 20,000,000) (the Grant) to assist Burkina Faso in 
financing the goods and services required to carry out part of the project (the 
Project) which is referred to in the Preamble and described in Schedules 1 and 2 to 
the Agreement between Burkina Faso and the Association (the Norwegian Grant 
Agreement); and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
administer the Grant upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall enter 
into such agreement or agreements with Burkina Faso, as it may deem appropriate for 
the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project. Such agreements with Burkina 
Faso shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn by 
Burkina Faso to finance the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
part of the Project to be implemented in the Province of Kenedougou and that the 
amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other 
charges. A copy of each such agreement shall be furnished by the Association to 
Norway.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall have 
the sole responsibility for the supervision of the Project.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any provisions of any 
agreement entered into between Burkina Faso and the Association for the purposes of 
this Agreement shall be handled solely by the Association, and the Association 
specifically reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to Norway, to 
exercise, refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or to 
modify any provision thereof, provided, however, that before suspending the right of 
Burkina Faso to make withdrawals of funds under such agreement, the Association shall 
inform Norway and afford Norway a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the 
Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to Norway 
in respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway shall, subject to 
parliamentary appropriations, deposit an amount of twenty million Norwegian Kroner 
(NOK 20,000,000) into a general account with Norges Bank in the name of the 
Association (the "Trust Account").  
(b)
The said amount shall be deposited in five tranches, over a period of 5 
years as follows:
(i)
four million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 4,000,000) upon effectiveness 
of this 
Agreement;
 
(ii)
four million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 4,000,000) before March 31, 
1993;
(iii)
four million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 4,000,000) before March 31, 
1994;
(iv)
four million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 4,000,000) before March 31, 
1995; and
(v)
four million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 4,000,000) before March 31, 
1996.
(c)
It is understood that the amount of each such tranche is based on the 
planned implementation schedule for the Project and may, after consultation between 
Norway and the Association, be adjusted to reflect actual progress made in Project 
implementation.
(d)
the funds in the Trust Account shall be freely exchangeable by the 
Page  3
Association with other currencies as may facilitate their administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust Account such amounts 
as from time to time shall be needed to meet the reasonable costs of goods and 
services financed or to be financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such 
disbursement shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal applications for eligible 
expenditures submitted by Burkina Faso to the Association in accordance with the 
Association's normal procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the 
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of 
administration and other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, 
the Association may invest and reinvest the funds in the Trust Account pending their 
disbursement to Burkina Faso, and may retain for its own account the income from any 
such investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall: (i) maintain separate records and 
accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account disbursed by the Association 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; and (ii) promptly after the end of each 
fiscal year, furnish to Norway a statement of account on such records and accounts.
(b)
Promptly after all funds made available under this Agreement have been 
disbursed from the Trust Account or upon termination of this Agreement, whichever is 
the earlier, the Association shall cause such accounts and records to be audited and 
certified by the Association's external auditors and shall furnish the report of such 
audit by said auditors to Norway.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Norway and the Association shall consult from time to time at each 
other's request on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep Norway informed of the progress made in 
the implementation of the Project. To such purpose, the Association shall furnish to 
Norway all relevant progress performance and assessment reports relating to the 
Project.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
all funds made available under this Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust 
Account to Burkina Faso.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, the 
Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such party by a ninety (90) days 
notice in writing. 
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any agreement or portion thereof entered into by the 
Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway and 
any funds or other property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall be 
returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall be considered 
terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after all funds made available under this Agreement have 
been disbursed from the Trust Account or upon termination of this Agreement, whichever 
is the earlier, the Association shall furnish to Norway a final report and a financial 
statement on the Trust Account, together with an opinion of the Association's external 
auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
Page  4
parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or 
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address  hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For Norway:
The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
P.O. Box 8114, Oslo Dep.
0032 Oslo 1
Norway
Cable address:
Telex:
 
NORAD-N
76548 NORAD-N
Oslo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto, have signed this 
Agreement. 
ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
   OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By /s/ Kjell Halvorsen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder Sud
Acting Vice President
Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services
Page  5
