CREDIT NUMBER 2229 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Environmental Management Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                15           , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2229 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            l      :2% e 5   , 1991, between
BURKINA  FASO   (the   Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of
Norway (Norway) and from the Federal Republic of Germany through
Gesellschaft fdr Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) and the Caisse
Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) loans and grants in a
total amount equivalent to $6,950,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective loan
and grant agreements (the Financing Agreements) to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the aforementioned entities; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The   "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project  Preparation  Advances" means    the  project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to two exchanges of letters dated June 4, 1986 and


﻿-2-
October 16, 1986; and June 1, 1988 and June 30, 1988 between the
Borrower and the Association;
(c)   "Special Account" and "Sub-Accounts" mean the accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)   "IPSC" means the Interministerial Project Steering
Committee referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(e)   "PTCC" means the Provincial Technical Coordination
Committee referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(f)   "OMU" means the Project Operational Management Unit
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (iii) of this Agreement;
(g)   "PTMU" means the Project Technical Management Unit at
the provincial level referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (iv) of this
Agreement;
(h)   "FMU" means the Forest Management Unit at the provincial
level referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (v) of this Agreement;
(i)  "IGB"   means  Institut  G6ographique  du  Burkina, a
cartographic agency of the Borrower;
(j)   "INERA"  means  Institut  National   d'Etudes  et  de
Recherches Agricoles, an agricultural research agency of the
Borrower;
(k)   "IRBET" means Institut de Recherche en Biologie et
Ecologie Tropicales, an agency of the Borrower for research in
tropical biology and ecology;
(1)   "MAE" means the Minist&re de l'Agriculture et de
I'Elevage of the Borrower;
(m)   "MET" means the Minist&re de 1'Environnement et du
Tourisme of the Borrower; and
(n)   "MACP" means the Minist6re de l'Action Coop6rative
Paysanne of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 11,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement. The Borrower may additionally open and maintain in
CFAF, for the benefit of each PTNU and F4U, a total of seven Sub-
Accounts of the Special Account in commercial banks and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association


﻿-4-
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General ConLitions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
commencing August 15, 2001 and ending February 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,


﻿-5-
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project under the
overall supervision of MAE and with the cooperation of MET and MACP,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and environmental management practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required


﻿-6-
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish:
(a)   (i) one IPSC; (ii) five PTCCs; (iii) one OMU within MAE;
(iv) five PTMUs in the provincial directorates of MAE in the
provinces of Bougouriba, K6nddougou, Houet, Gnagna, and Kouritenga;
and (v) two FMUs in the provincial directorates of MET in the
provinces of Houet and Bougouriba; and
(b)   thereafter maintain said IPSC, PTCCs, OMU, PTMUs and
FMUs with functions, responsibilities and staff in adequate numbers,
all satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall conclude contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Association: (a) with IGB for the
purposes of carrying out Part D.1 of the Project; and (b) with IRBET
and INERA for the purposes of carrying out Part D.2 of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1993
carry out the studies referred to under Part F of the Project; (b)
submit to the Association for review and comments the results and
recommendations of said studies as soon as available; and (c)
promptly implement the recommendations of said studies as agreed
upon with the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that any investment
proposal to be financed under the Credit in the execution of Parts
A and B of the Project shall be selected only in accordance with
the selection criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) (i) each year prepare
Project related work programs and budgets; (ii) submit them, not
later than April 30 of each year, to the Association for its review
and approval; and (iii) execute said work programs as approved by
the Association; and (b) by June 30, 1994 carry out a mid-term
review with the Association to assess the progress achieved in the
execution of the Project and shall promptly implement any measures
required as a result of said review to further the objectives of the
Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
cacerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-8-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are audited
separately each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and that the report of such audit
contain an opinion by said auditors as to whether
the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals, and furnish to the Association one
conformed copy of said audit report not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year
related thereto.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
(a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obli,gations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the


﻿-9-
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of -he General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Financing Agreements have been fulfilled, save for the effectiveness
of the GTZ Financing Agreement and of this Agreement;
(b)   a revised land tenure legislation satisfactory to the
Association has been enacted;
(c)   IPSC, OMU and all PTCCs, PTMUs and FMUs referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement have been established and staffed in
a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(d)   all contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement have been concluded.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re du Plan et de la Cooperation
B.P.  ,050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Cable address:               Telex:
SEGEGOUV                  5555 BF
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By    /o,/ f1Z     CA,~m~,.ce
Authorized Represeftative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 114&"/&?4
he&;t7    Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               4,200,000        100%
(2) Vehicles                  2,500,000        100%
and equip-
ment
(3) Training                     80,000        100%
(4) Consultants'              1,200,000        100%
services
(5) Incremental               1,700,000        60%
operating cost
(6) Refunding of                420,000        Amounts due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated               1,400,000
TOTAL                11,500,000


﻿- 13 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental
operating costs" means expenses incurred for items such as salaries
for contractual staff, fuel, maintenance and repair of vehicles and
equipment and subsistence expenses for travel related to the
execution of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawpls shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
efforts to: (a) prevent further degradation and rapid depletion of
its natural resources; (b) promote sustainable agricultural growth;
(c) protect and manage forest and wildlife resources on a
sustainable basis; and (d) foster local communities participation
in community land and natural resource management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Community Land Management Plans
Formulation of Community Land Management Plans and execution
of said plans and of selected investment proposals in about 120
communities located in the provinces of Gnagna, K6n6dougou and
Kouritenga with a view to promoting environmental protection and
rehabilitation,  and   improving  agricultural  productivity  and
sustainable growth at the community level.
Part B:     Combined Forest and Community Land Management Plans
Formulation of combined forest and community land management
plans and execution of said plans in selected forests and
surrounding communities located in the provinces of Houet and
Bougouriba.
Part C:     Supplemental Support for Ongoing Pilot Operations
Provision of technical services such as training, monitoring
of environmental conditions, execution of surveys, agreed studies
and photo mapping for ongoing pilot operations in 18 selected
provinces.


﻿- 15 -
Part D:     Monitoring of the National Environment and Project
Impact
1.    (a)   Establishment of an appropriate system to track and
monitor the evolution of environmental conditions at the national
level, thereby providing a better understanding of the causes,
dynamics and trends of natural resource degradation.
(b)   Analysis of the changes observed in land use over the
last twenty years, notably, the rate of expansion of cropped land
and the resulting reduction of silvopastoral areas; and production
of a comprehensive set of ecological maps and data, and
incorporation of said data into a geographic information system.
2.    Establishment of an information system to monitor the impact
of the execution of the Project (control of erosion, bush fires and
forest protection) on the surrounding environment at the community
level through:
(a)   aerial photographs at a scale of 1:50,000 of villages
selected through a sampling methodology, and comparative analysis
and interpretation of said photographs as taken at different periods
of time; and
(b)   monitoring of bush fires and vegetation cover (grass
and trees biomasses) in selected villages, communities and forests.
Part E:     Human Resources Development
1.    Training of technical staff, responsible for executing any
part of the Project, to acquaint them with the new concept,
methodology and techniques of community-based land management, and
to strengthen their communication skills.
2.    Execution of workshops to disseminate the methodology and
techniques of community-based land management among civil service
officials and local community leaders.
Part F:     Studies
Execution of the following studies:
1.    A study to assess the rate of adoption of the new community
land management techniques by the rural communities and to analyze


﻿- 16 -
the causes for a successful acceptance or rejection of said
techniques by the communities selected under the Project.
2.    A study to monitor the impact of the revised land law in the
settlement of land tenure conflicts in the communities covered by
the Project with a view to enact any further amendments that may be
required.
3.    A study to assess the progress achieved in the training of
the relevant technical staff and to recommend any appropriate
follow-up required.
4.    An interim report on the execution of the Project (including
an assessment of the adequacy of the institutional arrangements for
Project management).
The Project is expected to be completLd by June 30, 1997.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, equipment
and materials shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods, in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000,
and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised   locally,   in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association provided that:
(i)    all bids shall be opened in public and bidders'
representatives shall be allowed to be present;
(ii)    criteria for evaluating bids shall be set out
clearly and communicated to all bidders; and
(iii)    foreign companies shall not be required to be
incorporated in Burkina Faso in order to
participate in the bidding.


﻿- 18 -
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,500,000, and contracts for equipment, supplies and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures fet forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said. paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 19 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on tha basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The following actions shall be carried out in accordance with
the timetable indicated below:
1.    Land Management Plans
Formulation and execution of land management plans shall be
phased so as to cover about 35 new villages/communities per annum
and reach the number of about 167 villages/communities by
December 31, 1996.
2.    Environmental Monitoring
(a)   All materials and equipment required for environmental
monitoring, i.e., remote sensing equipment, software programs,
aerial photography and office equipment, shall be procured and
installed by December 31, 1992.
(b)   Necessary remote sensing facilities shall be installed
by December 31, 1992.
(c)   All required remote sensing data shall be obtained by
June 30, 1992, their interpretation shall be completed by
December 31, 1993 and the reconciliation of remote sensing and field
data shall be finished no later than December 31, 1994.
3.    Forestry Management
Procurement of maps and remote sensing data, and execution of
forestry surveys to be completed by June 30, 1993.
4.    Project Monitoring
(a)   Three Project-related workshops shall be carried out
during calendar years 1992, 1994 and 1996.
(b)   An annual review of the progress achieved in the
execution of the Project shall be carried out by April 30 of each
year.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 22 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall 'e withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the re 'ctive eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence. The Special Account shall not be
replenished on account of deposits made into any Sub-Account unless
the proceeds of such deposits have been used to make payments for
eligible expenditures.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account or out of a Sub-Account, the Borrower shall, at such time
as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. In addition
to such documents, when the Borrower requests replenishment of the
Special Account for funds deposited into any Sub-Account which have
already been disbursed, the Borrower shall also furnish to the
Association, prior to or at the time of such request, the bank
statements of said Sub-Account.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn amount of     the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any


﻿- 23 -
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follcw such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 6
Criteria for Financing of Investment
Proposals under Section 3.06
To be eligible for financing, any investment proposal
submitted shall meet the following conditions:
1.    be included in the land management plan or in the combined
land and forest management plan to be executed by the relevant
village/community;
2.    be susceptible of improving the use and management of
community land or forestry resources (e.g., erosion control works,
water-harvesting works, small dams or dikes, soil fertility
improvement, agroforestry operations, pasture improvement, nursery
establishment, tree planting, bush fire prevention, wind breaks,
etc...);
3.    be justified in terms of community participation as to the
costs of the proposed investment in cash and/or in kind, including
appropriate arrangements to ensure future maintenance and recurrent
costs; and
4.    investments of a purely social nature shall not be eligible.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


