Document of
The World Bank
FOR O0CAL USE ONY
MICROGRAPHICS                                            RepoipNo   12180
Report No: 12180
Type: PCR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NDONESIA
FIRST AND SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
(LOANS 2702-lND AND 2979-IND)
JULY 7, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
ThM documem has a restricted distibtion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Cumency Unit                              -     Indonesia Ruplah (Rp)
At Loan Appraisal for EDP I in April 1985  -    US$1.00 = Rp 1,100
At the closing date for Loan
Disbursement in August 199               -     US$1.00 = Rp 1,992
At Loan Appraisal for EDP II in Mar. 1988  -    US$1.00 = Rp 1,650
At the closing date for Loan
Disbursement in March 1993               -     US$1.00 = Rp 2,050
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia                   -    April 1 - March 31
Participating Financial Institutions      -    January 1 - December 31
ABBREVATIONS
ATRD          -   Agency for Trade Research and Development
BAPINDO       -   Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BBD           -   Bank Bumi Daya
BDN           -   Bank Dagang Negara
BEII          -   Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
BI            -   Bank Indonesia
BNI           -   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BPKP          -   Agency for Financial and Development Supervision
BRI           -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BTN           -   Bank Tabungan Negara
DFI           -   Development Finance Institution
ECI/G         -   Export Credit Insurance and Guarantee
EDP I         -   Export Development Project
EDP II        -   Second Export Development Project
EQUIP         -   Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program
ESB           -   Export Support Board
ESP           -   Export Support Fund
ETP           -   Export Training Program
GOI           -   Government of Indonesia
LPPI          -   Indonesia Banking Development Institute
MOF           -   Ministry of Finance
MOI           -   Ministry of Industry
MOT           -   Ministry of Trade
PCR           -   Project Completion Report
PDFCI         -   Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PEFG          -   Preshipment Export Finance Guarantee
PFI           -   Participating Financial Institution
PT ASEI       -   PT Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia (Export Insurance Company of
Indonesia)
SCB           -   State Commercial Bank
TA            -   Technical Assistance
UPPINDO       -   Usaha Pembiayaan Pembaunm    Indonesia (Development Finance
Company of Indonesia)



FOR OFICL USE
THE WORLD BANK
WeabboW =s 20433
00k*c of Dire.terzenwa
Op.z9.z Eva_uaion
June 30, 1993
~~~1TH    MUTVOE DUSR CTORS AMD TH  MESIDENT
SUBJECr:      Project Completion Repo an  donesia
Aackied is the Project Completion Peport an Ind as - Pint and Second Export Development Projects
(Loas 2702-1ND, 2979-JND), praed by the Eat Asia and Pacfic Regwnal Office. Prt.U was not contrbuted
by fte Govermet.
Ihe pojcts were desiged to promte ndesia's nontditionl  export wctor. though. (i) im g
th export finacing system: (i) estblisng an effective institutional fiamewok to pomote export produxtion and
markei      ) fcilitaing exoe's aces to inputs at wrd prc; (iv) pvidg tainig to prva sector
and public officials cocened with trade policy, and (v) budiginUtonalinfratrucue for export
deveopmen  Studies desid to mWupport industral and hta  policy formulatn wr  l undetake. Overall,
the projects ar rated satisfcty, with lkely suatainabity and substatial insttiona development
nho PCR nkes a cnd dt  of proect desig  and imple     and requim                        for
s _stnability of the benefits. Hwever, th impact of improved institutonal and finacial capability on the
peroma    of non-tradioal eports is not examine  Speccaly, the  segc ie      osips andproblems
involved in integrating         *c and tade policy, indt   ausecor suppo, and finnscialetor
development, need to be analyzed.
An udit of the project is planed beause the pboman  of the non-taditional export sector is integral
to Indoneai's strategy for acc_elrting grwth and ime distidbutoaL Ie proects may also have usefil lessons
for the Bank's lending activities elsewh
This docusent has a resticted ditibuto and may be used by recipet only in the performance of thr
oflfid duu  Uts conent may not ollf be dscosed wiout World Bank audhoniLo



CONTM
Fag. No.
PreXe            ............................................                       i
EvaationS.                 ...a.y                                      ...i
PART I - PROJECT R           FROEW M ROMBAN ESIPaCJP
2.                         .                                                       1'
3.  I3rojtcbjc1esad  ldeesc...........    ........3......
4. 13roud.........
3.  Projet Objecmn       De     . . ..                                            3
4.  P      hjdDsipod  piztiond a * ...............4
6. p1roject.......... ...........6
7.  Plojectsanablt  .9 ............... . . . .                                   11
S. BankiPerformnnane .............    12
9.  Borrower Perfornance ............                          .     .13
10. PlroeRel osoa   . . . .............. . . ...........                         14
*11. Cofutn  e2brvio    ...................                                        14
12. Project                                                                      1S
PART I- PROSECT 
PART M - WrATIMCAL INMORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loms an/or Crits .............. .                ......         17
2.  PojectTiCstables               .........                                      17
3.  LwSame¢ X::    19 #.                                             ...
4.  PhoaScto"stPandFmf    .................                                      20
5.  Projec Resuls                                                                22
6.  Status O Covenants ......    .................                 .23
7. UseofBank Rs            .......                                               23
Thi dwo#mnot has a ustctd dhbUes sa m_y be mud by   tis ay in deo       m
Of t*i offiki dutioes Its cements ma De oGtwibse he  wtht Won Bak sbtolu .



ANNEXES
1. Export Support Board (ESB)
2.  Export Quality Improvemgn and Upgrading Progam  (EQUIP)
3.  Export Credit l   erane and Guaranee (ECI/G)
4.  Export Traning Program (EP)
5.  Sdias and Othe Proams under TA Compont
6.  TA Coonent - Status of Reallocations and Disbusemens
7.  Implementation S       of TA Activities
8.  Subloans Approved under Loa 2702-IND
9.  Subloans Approved under Loan 2979-IND
10. Subsector Distribution of the Subloans Approved (Loans 2702-IND and 2979-IND)
11. Geographical Distribuon of the Subloans Approved (Loans 2702-IND and 2979-IND)
12. Breakdown of Classified Subloas (Loans 2702-IND and 2979-IND)



PROJCT OMPLEMWBIRE
FIRtST AND SECO-ND 9PORM  DEVlLOPAEN  g,QCT
dLOANS 2702-IND AND 2979-IND}
REA-CE
T   is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the two Export Development Projects in
Indonesia. The fis Export Development Project (EDP 1, Loan 2702-IND) was approved on June 26,
1986 with a loan amount of US$ 64.5 million. The Loan Account was closed on August 7, 1992,
and an outtandng balance of US$562,268.96 was canceled.
ne Second Export Development Project (EiDP II, Loan 2979-IND) was approved on August
24, 1988, with a loan amount of US$165.0 million. The Loan account was closed on March 9, 1993,
with cancellation of US$3.6 million, 15 months ahead of the schedule. The last disbu neme  was
mate on January 28, 1993. Due to poor commitment performance of four participaing financi
entiies, a partal cancelton of the loan proceeds in the amount of US$ 13.3 million was made in
October 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Er  Operations Diviion, Country
Dearmen I, East Asia and Pacific Region  fae, Evaluation Summry, Parts I and I), and the
Borrower (Part I)11/.
Prepaation of this PCR was started in November 1992, and is based, interjaia, on the Staff
Appraisal Reports; the Loan and Project  4  ; spervision reports; corresondene between
the Bank and the Bonrower; mteEnal Bank memoranda; and the findings of a PCR mission which
visited Indonesia in Februr 1993.
1/    Govemen contibuiof Part 11 sti awaed.



-il-
PIIQEU COETION BE=Q
FIRST AM:SIC          E2CPQRT D-EtVEIRL03         PRLI
dLOANS 2MEMND n299IMD
iYALUAflQN SR
Obkcdives
1.      Mrs objectiva e included: (a)  provig eporus' acess to fine by             the
implentation of the esport finance sstem and by asstg the state commerci banks to Impre
their term le2dng capbiit In the epo sector; (b) establihing an effeve  sitidond fram ork
to pve  d   teical assisuce to the eport commity i maeti      production; (c)
improg exporters access to npuqs at world prioes so that they can compete ternado"Ally; (ti)
proviwdg s    to medium term training for exporer as wel as reevant piblic officials; and (a)
prvidig a range of t1nc  assiste to help design expt promotin           I n such areas as
export estate and zone development quality ugading of  port producs, Improv  oatn and
cooriaton of public sector activities and enhanc_ig the role of tang companies as matftln
agents for small and medium scale producs.
2.    To ache t  above objecves, thre componet were included under EDP I: (a) aliiS
M&, channelled tough tee state commercial bank (SCBs), to finnce ewort-oriented
subprojects; (b) a o    f alnce            to strngtn the export polcy and insttutonal
fiameork an to hmprove export maketing, product quaiq and production          of export
fm; and (c) a OWN_mum  for eporters and rlvat public offiials in a wide rage of exot
dabed topics.
3.    The main doject  of the jj f was to ine    prduve cacity in the expr orented
mamil   I 18 sector by           the abflty of the finncial system to make tem loans for
projecX conabudag to non-ol expor development. In this contew, EDP E consisted of a H.f
szli& to meet the long-term finman   needs of eport d capital  Nsme. Bank fds wer
cannled to nine paricipag fina l isdtons (PFs), includig five SCBs, two prvate
commercial bank and two non-ak financi instions.
4.            was approved on May 27, 1986, and becme efFective oan November 25, 1986. Both
credit and TA          exper ieced some start-Wup deays, maiy becau: (a) the ftre PFs,
deain wt fte Bank for the first time, were n  fmiar with the B 's gideines and procedurs;
and (b) more time was needed for some TA activities   dg   the istiuonal         and
selection of x_



-i l-
5.    EDP I was originally scheduled for completion by December 31, 1991. This date was
eaxened by three months to Mach 31, 1992, to allow completion of two TA activies (ESB and
EQUIP). The US$51 million credi line was fully disbrsed, US$12.9 million was disbursed under
the US$13.5 million TA compont, and an outstanding balance of US$0.6 million was canceled.
The Loan proceeds were reallocated twice (on March 26, 1991 and Januay 16, 1992 respectively) to
reflect cost adjustments among TA aci es.
6.    EDP  was approved on June 29, 1988, and became effective on November 16, 1988. The
rate of credit utilizadon was very good during the initl 18 monts of imple on but this pace
subsequently slowed down, presumably due to the rising iterest rates and overall tight monetary
policies in the county. Consequenly, the deadline for submiion of subloan applications was
extended by cne year to December 31, 1991. While this extension did facilitate an increase in credit
utilization, four PFl remained unable to fully utilize their respective craeit allocations before the
extended deadline. Thaefore, at the request of the GCO, about US$13.3 million of the loan proceeds
was canceled on October 30, 1992.
7.    Ln disbursments under EDP II exceeded apprais expecton except during the last year
of project implementation when disbu ens were slower and corresponded with the slower pace of
subloan commiitents. The Loan was closed on March 9, 1993, 15 moans earlier than the original
closing date of June 30, 1994. An o_unding balance of US$ 3.6 million was canceled.
8.    The TA  omnonet urer EDP I comprised a very broad range of activities to help esablish
ad stregthe an efctdve and comprehensive framework for export development. These activies
can be grouped into three categories: institutonal building, studies and ote programs; and training.
9.    The institutional building was related to the Export Support Board (ESB), the Export Quality
Upgrading and Improvement Program (EQUIP) and P.T. Asurnsi Ekapor lIdonesia (Pr ASEI).
ESB was estblished under the Project as an autonomous institution and its main objective was to
assist eterprises to improve their co n   for exports. Prom its incWtion in Jamury 1988
until the Loan closing date of March 31, 1992, ESB provided assistance to 397 exporters and 29
export support organizaions through 744 cotracts in the areas of producton managenmt, qualty
improvement, export marketng and trainig. Since the Loam closing, ESB has contined to exend its
services with fcing from the Govemment budget. Two activities were conducted under EQUIP -
sth          of the quality support network and the EQUIP deo on  opertions. The
consultant's performce for the first actvity was considered satsfactory, but not much follow-p was
made after its completion; among the seven enterprises from four obsectors which participated in the
second activity, two were not satisfied because of teclnical dispues with the consultants. RePgding
PT ASEI, the Export Credit Insurance and Guarantee (ECI/G) component was implemented
successfully, while phase II work for Preshpment Export Finance Guarantee (PEPG) was mostty
canceled as recommended by the Bank. A Bank/MF joint mission on export policy in Augut 1989
reviewed the Indonesian ECIIG and PEFG schemes, and the mission's findings and
were included in a subsequent report. In addiion, the Bank also prepared a policy note in these areas
to the Government in 1990.



- iv -
10.     her TA aiyitie included: (a) studies of the role of trding companies and government
agencies in promotion of non-oil export; (b) feasibility study of developmet of Nusantr bonded
zone; (c) action oriented progrs in the Industrial areas; and (d) integrted MIS and industr  policy
formulation support system for Miistry of idustry. While not much follow-up was tacen regarding
(a) and (c), (b) and (d) were well implemented. The Cakung bonded zone has been fully utilized and
provided good support to exporters. The information systms have bee under operation and
providing useful information and data for decision makers. (See Annex 5).
11.   Overall, the Export Trainin- Proram was implemented successfully. 27 trainers from five
local training institutions and MOT actively participated in the program, and 736 people fom the
export commniq, export support associations and government agencies received tait .
12.   Under the credit monent of EDP I, a total of 51 subprojects (excluding three caceled)
were financed and under EDP II 159 subprojecs (excluding 18 canceled) were funded (see Anmexes
8 and 9). The loans were generally successful in stegt     the capacity of the participaing
finamcial instituons (PPs) in extending term credit to exporting enterprises and in encouging the
subproject sponsors' equity contribution (Rp 407.5 billion in the aggregate). The credit lines helped
in promoting Rp 931.0 billion in iremenal investments in export-oriented activities and contnutd
39% of the funding for these investment. Related to these investments,  imately 69,000 new
Jobs were generated. Altdough overall appraisal and supervision capacity of the nine PPI have
benefitted from the appraisal review process of the two loans, greater emphasis needs to be given by
PPI management and staff to furthe improve the quality of their appraisal work and stegthen their
staff capacity - at both the branch and corporate level - in subloan monitoring and supervision.
13.   The TA comonent under EDP I generated mixed resu. While ESB's operations have been
quite successful since its inception, its self-financing objective has not been achieved (see Amnex 1).
Since March 31, 1992, the closing date of the Loan, ESB's cost has been covered by the GOI budget
of approximuely US$ 1 million equivalent per year, which only allows ESB to condtue its assistance
at a mininmu level. The Government budget contribution is commiatd until end FY93/94 (March
31, 1994), but no further commitment or other alterative arrangements have been made so far. ESB
has proposed to the Government to meet its financing needs from several sources (such as export
value added and import duty), and also approached ADB for financial assistance under its proposed
export development loan. However, no decision has been made by the Government. Given the
helpfil assistance that ESB has been providing to the export community, and to ensure contnation of
such assistance, it is important to provide ESB with a sound a-vl stable fimancial base. A cost
recovering mechanism should also be developed and implemented to further deveop BSB as a non-
profit insfitution on a self-financing basis.
14.   Under the credit componens of EDp I and EDP II, private hanks were included for the first
time in the participation of Bank loans. Funds provided under the credit lines have contnued to
enhancing the capacity of and encuraged the financial system to meet term investments of exportng
enterprises. Greater awareness generated in the context of the Projects in the areas of financial
analysis of subproject propos, env    l concerns and export marketn arrangements have
benefitted the staff of PFIs when conducting subproject apprisals. The poor performance of 30% of



l 0V
subprojects financed (see paras 6.18-6.19) raises concerns on the appraisal capability of the Ps and
possible problems of sustalnability of the sub-borrowers.
Elam       An la m esn lft
15.   Overall, both Loms 2702-IND and 2979-IND made positive contributions to the developmen
of an intitutional support basis and a lending capacity for the export sector. Nonetheless, in view of
the weakne    in the design and implementation of the project, the following lessons can be learnt.
(a)    There is a need to structure a linkge between the TA progms and the credit
component. Project beneficiaries (PFIs and exporters) would have benefitted from
such a linkage, wbich could have facilitated the generation of synergistic effects of the
two components, e.g., the PFls could have helped ESB promote its services through
their lending operations, and ESB could have enhanced the PPh' export investment
proposals through is tecnimcal assistance;
(b) Both projects have contributed towards strengthening the appraisal and supervision
capability of the PPls staff. However, in light of the rather distubing proportion of
poor perfonning subloans, more attention could have been given during supvsion to
reviewing and improving overall PFI lening policies, credit appraisal taining. To
address these shortcomigs, the PPh should contine to improve their appraisal skills,
especially at the branch levels, and a bette centralized coordination of monitoring
system on subloan performance would be needed;
(c)   In designing TA components of projec and detining their size, special attenion
must be paid to the experience and absorptive capacity of implementing agencies.
The TA component under EDP I wa too ambitious. Also, various implem g
agencies - which were not familiar wit the Bank - had an insufficient uerstanding
of the purpose and objecdves of the TA, and follow-up to TA provided was limited.
Before committing to such a large number of TA activities: (i) the Bank should have
made an evaluation of the capacity of the implementation agenies to manage and
coordinate the various TA activities and to take necessary follow-up actions; (ii) GOI
should have included the implementing agencies to be direcdy involved in the
fonmuladon of the TA activities, to ensure ownership of, and accountability for, their
respective TA program components; (iii) GOI and the Bank should have developed,
jointly with the implementing agencies, a clear imple ion and monitoring plan
for the TA compentS (possibly with related loan conditionalities), including a plan
for follow-up actions after completion of the respective TA activities;
(d)    The self-financing objective for ESB was not realistic, given that it was a new
intittion that had to demonstate the value of its services. Furthermore, there was
no provision made for ESB's cost recovery;
(e)    The Bank-designed format for semi-annual progress reports for the credit components,
in retrspect, should have included more requrements on the subproject performance
data, which would have been a usefl insument for closely following up



-vi 
deteriorton of sublo    and sub-borrwr' pefonce as the basis for corective
action as well as facilitae the post evaluadon PCI Process.



1 I .
L  AND MM=9M    RM                    ,P_
aNA    270@N&   . 2979"u
PART 1: LI= REVIEW a0= BANK ZLPJQ
Project Name               Export Developrme  Projea (EDP 1)
Second Export Developme  Project (EDP O)
Loan Number               2702-IND, 2979-IND
Loa Amount                US$ 64.5 million (EDP 1)
US$ 165.0 miln (eDP II)
Regional Unit             East Asia & Pacific Region - Country Deatnt m
cSutry                     idomia
sector                    Idustry Nd Finance
Subsector           :     Financial Iemediary
2.
2.1    :WU of Pro     In order to diversify its exports from oil and gas and to provide a stable
and growiug source of foreign exchange earigs during the mid-1980s, rtpid growth of nn-oil
exporu was a high priority for Indoneia. Also, a major tiansfomiation in te pattemn Of nuial
growi was required in order for the sector to play an hmport  role in providig the needed
emplyment opportunities and forei  echange eamings. In the face of lower dome    absorption,
manufaturingexot were expected to play a major role in achieving high indusl growth.
2.2    Witin the above contex, it was expected that the eport devlopment projects wwold enable
the Bank to fther support e Government's (001) ita       to ft export-oried          ,
employmt getion, and non-oil export incm, through thica  sis    as well as with
fincial support. In addition to suportig institutio-building effors related to epot pmodon,
both projects were also aimed t improve the capaciy of the financial system to prvide tem
finacing for viable eoxportoriented ivestments.
2.3    Ge         the requisite export growth called for a polcy environm  that would induce
domestic manufacturerto accept the challenge of selling their produc  in the Inteatonal as wel as
the domestic maret. It reuired trade policy reforms and import lializatos to redirect the flow
of resorces away from hi-cost import replacement Inesms towabds export and  dicient mport-
comptnyg indutrle, basod mailly on Indonesia's natural and hma resources. The 001 had bega
to move io this direction with the Aprl 1, 1985 reduction in the range and level of import tariff.
with the maximum rate on most products lowered frm 225% to 60%. However, the domesic



-2-
economy remained highly procd and much more needed to be done to reduce the anti-export bias
in the Incentive framework.
2.4    While the adjusament of trade policies was of critical importance, there was substanti scope
to improve export perfom    in the short and medim run by promotig foreign exchange eaino
activities directly. Imortat steps taken earlier by the GOI included the introduction of an export
certificate scheme in 1978 to rebate duties to exporters, establshment of a compehensive finance
system, a substantial devaluaton of the Rupiah in March 1988 and adoption of a managed floating
exchange rate, reform of custom  and pots adminisrton. These steps si y  reduced
disincenives and barriers to export. In this improved environment,  ufaur  exports increased
subsnmtally, from US$0.5 bion in 1980 to US$1.5 billion in 1984. However, manfactued
exports were still relatively small.
2.5     For sustned fiture gowth, policies and aministive   ng       that more closely
approximae -neutral (or free trade) stas' for export activities were especially relevant. Such
policies have been the cornerstone of the export promotion systems of the successful East Asia
countries. Their objective is to provide a "neral stat" to aU exporters to compete with foreign
competitors in the world market on an equal footing. SpecificaUly, the export finace system in
Indonesia was not reachng many expotrs and indirect exporters were not covered at all. Similarly,
the export certificate system was not providing adequate or timely rebates to many exporters. A
major himrovement in this system was ned  to ensure that all export actvites received complete
exemption from import duties and other indirect taxes. In addition, there were a number of other
areas that deserved grater support includig private sector instonal development and
infrar       support. The GOI was commitd to providng and strengthening the support system
and technical assistance was provided under EDP I for this purpose.
2.6   Finania St: In the wake of declin   oil revemnes in the eady 1980s, mountng
fiacial pressures on both the GOI and the private sector prompted the GOI to undertake several
financial sector reforms to mobilize domestic resources. These refors had a dramatic impact on the
banking system. Nominal (and rel) deposit rates paid by state ban  increased sharply; in corollary,
the cost of fimds and lending rates of state b     also incrased sharply.
2.7    Although thee change had been benefcial to the developme  of the fincial system on the
whole, a mumber of issues also emerged. Most important was the adverse impact on hinestent
activity of changes in the cost and availability of state banks' term loans. Following the
liberalion, longer maurity deposit declined sharply. The shorti  of matity, together with
the s       reduction in BI's reficig failies for investment credis, had subsntil
consequences for long-term lending. Given the much greater dep_e on relatively short-term
deposits, bank were reluctant to lend long-term and new investment credits had fallen off sharply
since mid-1983.
2.8   Ensuring that exporters have adeuate access to longer-term fiacing was also essetal to
meet the projected rapid genration of mnaed eports. This was particularly true for exporters
of non-traditona products which were dsdage in obtinig financia resources because of the
bias in incentives toward importsubstitutin industries and the rdeavely grater risk of export-
oriented investments. Because no       exportes were expectd to play a key role in
Indonesi's futue indusi de          it   especially imp nt that the inestment needs of this



priority group were met. This objective was supported under the EDP I and, subsequently, under the
EDP II.
2.9 The Bank had played a major role in helping the GOI identify and design the various export
meaures and significant assistance had been provided in the areas of export finance, duty drawback,
export zones/estates, quaWity improvement of exports, and export promotion. This asisace involved
fiancing and supervising several sudies and technical assistance programs under the Fifth BAPINDO
(Loan 2277-IND) and the Fifth Technical Assistance (Credit 898-IND) Projects. It also involved
substantial Bank staff input through the economic and sector work program. Notvithstanding, a great
deal of additional effort was required, particularly at the implementation phase, to establish an
effective export framework. More generally, the Bank's strategy in the industrial sector called for
assisting the GOI in its attempt to transform Indonesia's industrial base and position the economy for
steady, broad-based growth in the future. This policy-based strategy was focused on three interrelated
areas: (a) macroeconomic and trade policy; (b) industrial subsector support; and (c) financial sector
development.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   Export Development Project (EDP n: Through a TA component of US$13.5 million and a
credit component of US$51.0 million, the Project supported Indonesia's efforts to increase non-oil
exports by: (a) strengthening the policy and insdtutional framework to provide needed teclnical
assistance to the export commuity in markedtng and production (through the establishment of a new
msttution, the Export Support Board, or ESB); (b) assisting individual export fims with techical
assistance and training; and (c) increasing the productive capacity for export-oriented activities by
enhancing the availability of long-term credit for such investments.
3.2   Second ESxport Develgoment Proect (EDP m: This was a follow-up project to build on gains
made under the credit component of EDP I. Therefore, the main objective of the EDP II was to
further increase the productive capacity in the export oriented manufactui  sector by stregth
the abilit of the financial system to make term loans for projects contributing to non-oil export
development.
4.    Project Design and Oranization
4.1 Proect Dgs:ew The project scope and loan size of EDP I went through several chages
during its preparation. After the project appras was completed in May 1985, the project scope and
loan size was reduced in early 1986, to reflect the decision of BankExim not to pardcipate in the
Project and the scaling down of the proposed export estate. The loan size was furter reduced during
loan negotiatons in April 1986 when in the face of dramatic fall in oil prices, the GOI cautioned
uncertainty regarding demand for loan funds. Also, the GOI, in the inerest of austerity, requsted
reductions in the volume of training and technical assistance supported by the Project. Bank Bumi
Daya (BBD) also withdrew participadon in the Project.
4.2   The credit Iwestm  under EDP I was chamnelled through three PTh: Bank Dagang Negara
(BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI), and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). All three are SCBS
with large deposit taking and well developed branch networks. The number of PPl under EDP II
tripled to include, for the first time, private ban  in this type of Bank lending operation in Indonesia.



-4-
The nine PFis consisted of five SCBs: the three SCBs which participated under EDP 1, plus Bank
Bumi Daya (BBD) and BankExim, two private commercial banks, Bank Duta and Bank Niaga, and
two non-bank finanl  Institutions, the Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI)
and Usaha Pemblayaan e mb nan Indonesia (UPPINDO). The credit components of both projects
were implmented under the same insdtutional arrangement where each PFI set up an infonnal unit
within the exising strucue of their credit departments to have prim   responsibility in the
prparation and appraisal of subprojects for financing under the loans. This unit would also oversee
Implementation and supervision of all subloans and would be responsible for reporting to the Bank on
project implementation. In retopect, these "EDP Teams" were successful in contributing towards
the satisfactory Implementaton of the credit components.
4.3    The TA componen comprised a broad range of activities, which can be divided into those
aimed primarily at the public sector and those targeted on the private sector - the export community
itself. Regarding the public sector, the Project would help to establish and strengthen export
promotion, policy, and institutional framework in such areas as: export credit insurmce and
guarantee, export quality upgrading, export promotion, duty exemption/drawback and export estate
development. Asisn  in each area would be channeled through the public institutions concerned,
including the Agency for Trade Rach and Development (ATRD) and the Directorate General for
Foreign Trade (DGFT) under Ministry of Trade (MOT), the Export Insurance Company of Indonesia
(PT AS13) under the Ministy of Finance (MOF), and the Ministry of Industry (MOI). Regarding
TA for the private sector, it would cover such areas as international marketig and production
mangement including quality upgrading. This assistance would be channeled through a new
autonomous agency, the ESB created in the context of the Project. The training program was to
provide short term courses related to the immediae needs of about 800 exporters and relevant public
officials. Training of about 35 local trainers was also included. MOT would establish a Project
Management Unit (PMU) for the training program. The execution of training itself, however, would
be done by selected local institutions. These insituons, in turn, would be assisted by a consuant
team specialized in training for export development, which would also provide overall coordination
and direction of the program.
4.4   In view of the range of acdvities of the TA and training programs, MOT was to provide
overall coordination and monitoring. At negotiations, an u ing was reached with the GOI
that MOT would prepare and submit to the Bank for review, semi-nual progress reports on these
componts.
5.    Proectlpeato
5.1   EDP I was approved on May 27, 1986, and became effective on November 25, 1986; and
EDP II was appoved on June 29, 1988, and became effective on November 16, 1988. The TA
component experienced some start-up delays because more tme needed for overall coordination and
selecton of consults. Although the credit component experienced minor delays resuldng from the
PFIs' unfamiliarit with the Bank's guidelines and procedures on subloan approval, procurement and
d L , subloan cmi     and disbrsts proceeded very well and exceeded the
estmates made at appraisal.
5.2 EDP I was originally scheduled for completion by December 31, 1991 but it took longer than
expected for ESB to reach its full operational stage and implementtion of the EQUIP demonstration



-5 -
operaions. As a consequnce, the closing date was exended by tiree months to March 31, 1992, to
aliow completion of these two TA activities and the loan account was closed on August 7, 1992.
5.3   The credit component for EDP I was fully committed by August 1989 and final disburements
for all subloan commitments were made by April 1991. Although the level of commitment of
subloans under EDP II was excelent during the initial 18 months, the performance began to slow
down after October 1989. Although it was difficult to idenify specific reasons for this slowdown,
rising interest rates and overall tight monetary policies in the country played a role. Throughout the
implementation of the project, PDFCI and BankExim (followed by BDN, BRI and Bank Niaga) have
consisteny demonstrated stsfactory performace in utlizing project fuds (in terms of both
commitments and disbu     ). To encourage fiuther uilization of funds, the deadline for
submission of subloan application was extended by one year from December 31, 1990 to December
31, 1991. While this extension did ifcilitate an incre  in credit utlaion, four PFIs (BNI, BBD,
Uppindo and Bank Duta) remained unable to fully utilize their respective credit allocation before the
deadline. At the request of the Government, about US$13.3 million of uncommitted funds (from the
four PFIs' respective credit allocations) of the loan proceeds was canceled on October 30, 1992. All
committed funds were disbursed and final disbu  under EDP II were made on January 28,
1993. At the request of the Govemment, the loan was closed on March 9, 1993, 15 months earlier
than the original closing date of June 30, 1994. At the time of loan closing, an additional outanding
balance of about US$3.6 million funds was canceled.
5.4            :  Although delays were common, both at the local level and during Bank's
approval, the rem ent of advisors and cons4ltants under the TA component were in compliance
with Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. The PPls did not have fornal procuremen
weuirments and the subloan sponsors were rquired to justf all pOCUment decisions and confirm
comparative quotations had bee evaluated. The procuremet arrngemet for all subprojects under
both Loans were reviewed by respective PFIs and the Bank during subloan processing, and found
acceptable.
5.5  EPr  i og: The total cost of the TA component was esdmated at US$15.6 million at the
appraisal, consistng of: US$13.5 from the Bank loan, and US$2.1 from the GOI and local sponsors.
The final disbursement for the TA componet was US$12.9 under the Bank loan. Total capital
investment made in export-oriented activities under EDP I was Rp 179.4 billion and half of the
financing for these investments were provided from the Bank funds. This capital investment
surpassed the appraisal estiaes by about 70%. In the case of EDP 11, total capital investments made
was Rp 751.6 billion, of which 36% was financed by Loan 2979-IND. Subproject sponsors (equity)
conltru   42% towards the total subproject costs under EDP I and 44% under EDP II, higher than
the 30% ewpected at the time the projects were appraised.
5.6    Disbursements: AcWActual disb1ursemets compared to estimates at appraisal of the two loans are
given in Part m. While disbursements under the TA component lagged behind appraisal forecast,
those under the credit components were satisfactory and generally ahead of appraisal estimates. The
US$51 million credit line under EDP I was fully disbursed, while US$148.1 million were disbursed
under BDP II. Ten percent of funds under EDP II were canceled. As shown in Annex 6, two
reallocations of the loan proceeds were made under EDP I, on March 26, 1991 and January 16, 1992
respectively to reflect adjusutents among TA acivities; in addition, one credit reallocation was made
among the three PFIs on January 28, 1988. There was no loan reallocation under EDP II.



6-
5.7   Pto  Risks: Of the potenal risb identified by the respective appraisal missions, none
were significan in affecting satifactory imple tion of both loans. Although there was a concen
that some subprojects under EDP I would not meet the minimum requirem  that 40% of totl
production be exported, only 6% failed in this connection. Under EDP 11, however, 12% of the
subprojects financed under the Project did not meet the minimum 40% export requient, and these
were mostly new companies which suffered from inexperienced mangement, poor product quality or
tenuous marketing arragements which eventually did not maeialize.
6.    awoect Results
6.1   Results of the TA Comnonert: The TA component comprised a broad range of activities
designed to strengthen instuional support systems for non-oil export development. Most of the TA
programs were executed as planned. The reults were mixed but coupled with otier measure adopted
by GOI on deregaon and incentive systems; these TA programs have made contributions to noil
export increase in xkdoneaia. Te attached Annexes 1-7 provide some deti. The TA actvites
conducted are grouped into three categories:
(a)   Institutional building
*     Export Support Board (ESB)
e     Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program (EQUIP)
*     Export Credit Insurance and Guarante (ECI/G)
(b)   Exot  taing program
(c)    Sudies and other programs
*     Study of the Role of Trading Companies in Non-oil Export Devepment
*     Study of the Role of Govenmnent in Promotion and Development of Non-oil
Eort
3     Feasibility Study of the Development of the Nusatara Bonded Zone
*     Acdon Oriented Programs for Ministry of Industry
*     Integroaed Manament Information System, and Industri Policy Formulation
Support System for Ministry of Industry
*     Effective Rate of Protecdon Study
*     BPS Plow of Funds Study
6.2   E.M &M   ard: ESB is an autnomous body established by the MOT (Decree No.
89/Kp/IU86) in 1986. Its main fimction is to provide tchnical assistance to the export commuity
(exportes and export support organizations). Annex 1 provides a detailed review and    _     of
ESB's activities.
6.3   ESB is govered by six board members, and managed by an amasor with the asstace
of over 20 project officers and support staff. Two eWpatriate advisors provided assistance during
ESB's iniil two years. All of ESB's    iv e costs and technical assistamce to export support
organzations were covered by the Bank funds. Is technical assistan  to exort firms was operated
on a cost shaing basis with 75% from ESB and 25% from export finns. The ESB part of the fumds



-7-
was passed on as grants; users were not required to repay. The total disbursement of Bank funds
through ESB was US$7.6 million, of which $2.4 million was fot administrave cost (including $0.9
million for expatriate advisors), $3.6 million for asistane to exporters, $0.7 million for assistance to
export support organaons, and $0.8 million for EQUIP emonstation peraions.
6.4   ESB has provided both tecal and finc  assistane to small and medium pribumi
exporters in production manaemen, quality improvement, export marketing and training. As of
Loan closing date, March 31, 1992, 397 exporters and 29 export support organizations received
assistance from ESB. 49 local and 120 forig experts (from 17 countries) were hired to provide the
technical assistance. Among various subsectors, fniue m  ing received substantial
assisance, followed by garments, handicraft and wood products. According to a survey by ESB, by
the end 1991, for every dollar conibution by ESB and the sponsor, US$17 worth of incremental
export sales were generated. This result is satisfactory.
6.5    According to the Staff Apprisal Report (SAR), upon completion of ESB's three year trial
period, the private sector was expected to devise a shem  to manage and operate ESB on a self-
fiancing basis. This objective was not met. In retospect, it may not have been realistic or feasible
to set such an objective given the fact that ESB was a newly established institution providing new
services and no cost recovering mechanism was developed in the project design or during the project
implemntain.
6.6     OUIP: This program consisted of two uprograms: (a) Stengteing of the
Quality Support Network, and (b) Quat Management Demonstration Opeaions. For the first
subprogrm, most of the activities (such as tecical centers, accreditation system, code of practices,
quality management and sampling techniques tran, information network abroad) have been
completed as planned despite start-up delays, and the   ons made were considered
sasfactory. But not much follow-up was executed. Under the second subprogram, seven enterprises
partcipated from four subsectors (woodworking, leather products, rubber goods and electrical cable).
The activities under this program included: evaluation of condition of the particing etrprises and
specialist consultancy, setting up qualty contol system, developing a quality management mamnal,
laboratory testng of product quality to conform with lnterational standards, training and other
promotion activites. According to MOT, this subprogram spawned postve results in areas of quality
management. Of the seven participati  enterpise, five expressd satisfaction; two voiced
dissatisfaction due to techdical disputes with the conults. See Annex 2 for a detailed review of this
progrm.
6.7 ECIG nd PBPG: This program was designed to shtrng_ten the management and operations
of Pr ASEI (the Indonesian Export Credit Insurance Company) in two areas: (a) ECI/G (coverig
exporters' non-performance risk). It has been implemented successfully. All r ons have
been absorbed by PT ASEI, and as a result, its ECYO portfolio was increased from 0.04% coverage
of national exports in 1988 to 2.76% in 1991, and (b) Preshipment Export Fance Guarante
(PEFG). The Phase I report evaluated Indoness PEFO scheme and identified areas in need of
Strn1gtheig, including proposal and   oien s for Implemenation under Phase II. Because
Bank Indonesia at that time was implemting refoms in the preshipment export financing system
(whch is closdy relted to PEFO), it elected to delay the start of PEPO Phase II. Thus, most of the
activites under PEFO Phase 11 were caceled. An IBRD/IMF joint mission on ewort policy review
in August 1989 also reviewed the Indonesian EChIG and PEFO schemes. The mission's findings and



recommendations in these aa were included in a white cover report. Additionally, the Bank in 1990
prepared a policy note on ECI/O and PEFG to the GOI.
6.8   Export Traini   Proram (ETP): ETP's overall objectives were achieved and all planned
training programs completed on dme. 35 trainers (of which 27 were most conpetent) from five local
training institutions and MOT were trained. Those tainers were able to conduct the training courses
during the third phase of ETP, and most of them have since been engaed in export related training to
private sector. The respective training institutions' capabilties in various areas related to export
training have been stengthened. A total of 736 people from the export cmmnity, export support
associadons and government agencies participated in the trining program. (See Annex 4.)
6.9   Stud- of the Role of Trad  ComIanWes in Non-oil Export Development. and Studv of the
Role of Goverment in Promoton and Developmnt of Non-oil Export were completed on time in
early 1990, but with no follow-up actions. The Action Oriented Proms for MOI were conducted
in two phases. Phase I report was too general, but Phase II was sadsfactory. However, none of the
recommeions  has been implem     . Inteoated Manement hIfomation Svstem and Industril
PoliEc Pormulation Support System for MOI were implemented successfilly and are providing useful
information and data to Government officials in the formulation of short, medium, and long-term plan
for the development of new industries and the restuctuing of existng ones. These two systems
contributed-to the stegthenin of MOI's cowmputer infonnation system. Effective Rate of Protectin
ft* was completed in 1988 and has since been updaed more than once.
6.10  Peasibility Sudy of Development of Nu_ntara Bonded Zone was successfully completed in
1989. The study provkded a good reference to PT Kawasan Berikat Nusantara for development of
Nusantara Bonded Zones. This company has developed three such zones, including the Cakg Zone
in 1990 comprising an area of 173 hectares and 128 investors. The dominant production activity is
garments, followed by furniture, electronic products and shoes. As of the end of 1990, the total
investment was US$93 million; total exort value was JS$183 million; and total employment was
32,929. The development of these zones have made valuable contriutons to the promotion of non-
oil exports. See Annex 5 for more detals.
6.11   Resuts of Cjedit     ns  Overall, the creit components were successful in meeting
their principal objective to icease productive capacity in the export-oriented m c   sector by
increasing the availability of long term credit for such investments and by st ening the ability of
the financial institutions to provide term loans for projects contributing to non-oil export development.
Between 1987 and 1992, the three SCBs participating in both loans, BDN, BNI and BRI, tripled their
lending to support export acties while overall volume of term lendig incres  by 2.6 times
during the same period. The other six PFIs which participated in EDP II also demonstrated similar
increase in investment funding of export activities. In addition to the term funds provided under the
loans, the PFIs were able to undertake complementary term invesunent financing to meet the
increased demand for export oriented investment.
6.12   Subloan D        : A total of 51 subprojects were approved for Bank funing uder EDP I
and 177 subprojects were auhrized for funding under EDP II (of which, 3 under EDP I and 18
under EDP II were subsequently fully canceled because they were either  nced by other banks,
converted to dollar loans which carried a lower interest rate (in US$ terms) or the companies were
unable to start production). Access to the EDP cedit  es was limited to facially viable



-9-
enterprises and investmet proposals with export potential of at least 40% of its total production.
Between 10-15% of all subloan applications were withdrawn (from consideration) by the PFIs.
Subloan applications were withdrawn by the PFIs (or rejected by the Bank and subsequenty
withdrawn) primarily for two reasons: either, (a) the investment proposals did not meet the minimum
eligibilty requremenb  under the Projects; or (b) the respective PPh were unable to address
satsfactorily Bank concerns related to management, markedng or technical aspects and/or the
financial soundness of the proposed investments or of the sponsoring eeprbes. BDN and BRJ have
the largest shares of subloans approved under the two loans.
6.13   Under EDP I, 23% of subloans were made to new enterprises enteing the export market
industny, while the rest were to enterprhses expanding their production capacity to either include or
increase their export activity. Following several policy initiatives taken by the Government in trade-
related reforms and industial deregulation during the late 1980s, optimism in the business community
resulted in a surge of export-oiented investmes, including many by new eterprises. Under EDP
I, the number of new enterprises financed constituted 55% of all subloans approved. Statistical
details of 51 subprojects financed under EIDP I are provided in Annex 8, and Annex 9 for the 159
subprojects under EDP II.
6.14 Subloan Sz: The individual subloan size under EDP I was a limited from US$250,000
minimmn to a maximum of US$7 million. Subloan approved under EDP I ranged in size from
US$139,000 to US$7.0 million. The distribution of above free limit subluans ("A' subloans) and free
limit subloans ("B" subloans) was about even. The range of subloan size under EDP II was larger,
between US$56,000 and US$10.0 million. 23% of the subloans approved under EDP II were "A"
subloans and 77% were 'B" subloans. The average subloan size under both projects was about
US$1.0 million. Table below gives the distribution of subloans approved under the two EDPs:
Subdoan SLD isnAni
EDP I    -EDP II      Total
Number of subloans szproved            54         177        231
Of which canceled/withdiawn            3          18        21
(Net) Subloans approved               51         159       210
Number of "A' subloans                26         36         62
Number of "B" subloans                25         123        148
Shibloansie
Over US$1.0 millon                     8         45         53
US$500,000 - US$1.0 milion           17          4         61
Less dhan US$500,000                  26         70         96



- 10-
6.15    sou                Nearly one tW  of export investments uded under EDP I was in
the rttan (furnture/carpets) industry. The sectoral distibon of subloans fumded under the EDP I
was more evenly distibuted between  a,  tetl/garment, agro processing (frozen foods, tapioca
chips, cooking oil, coffee, cattlefeed) and footwear/leather indwustries. Annex 10 shows the subsector
distribution of the subloans.
6.16  Gorpi                : 72% of the subloans funded were concente in Java and 17% in
Sumatra. Within Java, the number of subprojects fnmded in East and West Java in sed
dramatically between EDP I and EDP H. EDP H was also able to finance some projects in the
smaller islands of Bali, Riau, Nusa Tenggara and Maluku. Annex 11 shows the geophic
distrlbution of subloans funded under EDP I and EDP IL.
6.17   Subloan Terms: The average inte  rate charged to the exporters under the Loas was
19.9% (17.0% - 25.0% range) for an average term of 56 months (including the grace period). Since
the subloans were made under variable interest rates, when interest rates increased in 1990-92 to
range between 25.0% and 27.0%, several enterprises suffered losses and many subloans fell into
arrears (paras 6.18-6.19).
6.18  SabloanPerfo     :   PMany of the subloans suffered repaymet problems, resulting in 25%
of EDP I and 30% of EDP H subloans being held as classified loans (i.e., doubtfu and losses
according to BI's classification of loan quality). The hardest hit subsecto  were in the rattan
followed by agro processing and woodworking/lumber induies. lhe PPIs with more classified
subloans (21 in BRI and 14 in BDN) also had the lar   portfolio of subloans. The main reasons for
the poor subproject performa   iwluded (a) changes in Government regulation controlling expr
products (rattan and woodworking) (par 6.19); (b) management problems; (c) poor product quality
(rubber gloves); (d) problem with supply of raw materials; (e) over-investnt of production capacity;
and (f) the high cost of funds in 1990-92.
6.19  Between 1986 and 1988, sverl Goverment regulatons (Nos. 274, 275 and 410) were
intduced to encourae rattan eoe  to produce more value added products in order to enhance
the competitiveness of raitan exports. Simiarly, Regulation Nos. 119, 292 and 1134 were issued in
1987-89 to encourage the woodworkig/lumber industry to prodce sei-finishe products, by
mincre g taff carges on unprocessed timber. The introduction of these measus had an adverse
impact on many of the rattan and woodworking etpries since they had to adapt their production
lines to0 otmply with the Goverment guid . This dirupted the production cycle which resulted
in completion delays, cost ovemms, loss of exporte_ and ultimately fiancial losses.
Approximately 47% of the rattan exporters and 55% of the woodworking exporters financed under
EDP I and EDP U were adversely affeted by the intuction of these regulaons. Although the
Bank has supported the trade, invesm, finance and transport dereguation since the mid-1980s
trough two Trade Policy Adjustment Loans (Loas 2780-IND and 2937-lND) and two Private Sector
Development Loans (Loans 3080-IND and 3267-IND), some of the 001 meaures appear to have
miWed the success of the ratand woodwoing expot iustries.
6.20  About 12% of the 210 subprojects suffered fhm cost overns of 20% or more. The main
reasons for the overrns included chnges in project scope/design,  I  investmen cost,
and changes in Govment regulati  governing export products (especiaily in rattan and



- 11 -
woodworldng activities). Delays in start-up of producdon were minil for most of the subloans and
only 4% of the 210 subloa  experienced completion delay of more than one year.
6.21   Em     pl Gnetion: The Loans were successful in generating incremental employment
in the exportig eerprises, signficadtly higher than estimated at appraisal. Approximately 69,000
new jobs were created under the 210 subprojects and the average cost per job generated was Rp 13.5
million.
7.        Proec S_bi
7.1    As discssed above, the TA component genate mixed results. While ESB has been
providing effective assistance to the export community, the self-financing objective has not been
ttained. Since the closing date of the Loan March 31, 1992), ESB's cost has been covered by the
GOI budget at approxtmately US$1 millon equivalent per year, which only allows ESB to contie to
provide its assistance at a marginal level. This budget has been commited until end FY93194 (March
31, 1994), but no futier cotment from the GOI or other alternadve arrangements have been
made so far for thereafter. ESB has proposed to the GOI to meet its financing requiement from
several souees (such as export value added and import duty), and also approached ADB for financial
assistac under its proposed export development loan. However, no final decision bas been mae by
the G01.
7.2   In order to allow ESB to continue providing technical assistance to exporters, and to frher
stengthen its capbiit and reputation within the export community, it is important that ESB has a
stable financial base. As mentioned above, no financing arrangement has been made beyond March
1994. As a result, ESB is finding it increasingly difficult to retain its staff. Putting ESB on a sound
financial fooing is a matter of urgency. Once ESB's financing requirement is met, a cost recovering
mehanism should be developed and implemented to maintain ESB as a nonprofit institution on a
sef-finacing basis.
7.3   The credit components have made significat contributions in enhacing the capacity of the
financial system to meet the term investment needs of exports. At the time the loans were made,
the Bank provided matchig funds to meet the export investment requremen and densued to
the PTIh the profiabty of lendn to export activiies. The poor performane of 30% of subprojects
finaced (see Annexes 8, 9 and 12) raise concerns on the appraisal capabilty of the PPls and
possible problems of susnabity of the sub-borrowers. N         the poor performane of
their portfolio, overall return to the PPls has boen profitable and the PFis contie to increase lending
to export-oriented actes frm a negligible proportion to approximatey 40% of their term lending.
Also, the loam have oeed up the Banks credit line opeaons for the first time participation of
private bans.
7.4   The loan have facilitated the setting up of specialized staff in export financing loam among
the PTls. This has contbuted towards streng4t    the appraisal ad supervision capablity of PPI
staff. To furher improve on dtese benefits, the financial  utions should conue to expose more
of their staff, especlly at the bran   level, to improve their appraisl skdlls, especially in the areas of
asessing the sbprojects soundns  and viability in the areas such as supply of raw material, qudity
control, envhomAal impact and marketing arrangements. This is espcally the case for those



-12 -
SCBs with a large network of branch offices, e.g., BRI and BNI, a ber centralized coordination of
monitoring system on subloan progrss and performance should be instituted.
8.    Bank Performe
8.1    Overall, through both Loans 2702-IND and 2979-IND, the Bank has made a positive
contribution to the development of an institutional support bas and a lending capacity for export
sector. Nonetheless, in view of the weakness in the design and implnion of the project, the
following lessons can be learnt.
8.2   The TA component was too ambitious and without a clearly defined focus, reflectng a lack of
an underlying assessment of the constain to export development. Also, there was no clear
understanding on the purpose and objectives of the TA by the various implementing agencies which
were not familiar with the Bank. A specific implementation, monitoring and supervision plan was not
prepared at appraisal. Specific schedules and plans could have been also ageed between the Bank
and the GOI on necessary follow-up actions after completion of the respetve TA activities, and more
attention should have been paid in this connection during the supervision. Altatively, since a
follow-up project was expected at that time, some of the TA activites could have been postponed to
be undertaken under EDP II which would have helped to make the coordination and implemention
easier and more effective. Also, some TA activities (e.g., study of the role of trading conpanies)
could have been modified or changed to another topic, especially in the light of the chamges in the
export sector which were the result of trade reforms and deregulation intduced earlier.
8.3   Before committng to a large number of TA activities, the Bank ought to have made an
evaluation of the capacity of the implemening agencies to manage the various TA actiities and to
take follow-up actions. Any weaknesse brought about by such an evaluation could have been
addressed in the project implementation plan, and in the loan conditionalities. Similarly, the Bank
should have assessed more caully the requrement on its own capacity to supervise the TA
effectively. Also, it would have been useful to have involved all the implementing agencies in the
formulation of the TA component, which would at least have given the implemelting agencies
ownersip of, and thus accountability for, their respective TA programs.
8.4   The Bank could bave better coordinated and alloated its scac supervision resources. The
task manasement for EDP TA had changed several dmes throughout the project life (due to staff
transfer) and more backup or overlap could have been made to ensure better contnuation and
consistency. While the last supervision mission of the TA compoent, completed almost one year
before the closing date, concluded that no further supervision in the field was necessary, this was not
the case since several activities (ESB, E QUIP demonstrations, export tr , and IPOSYS) were still
ongoing. Routine spei on of the TA component had been kept to a minimum thereafter, which
was insufficient. Inadequate attention was given by the Bank and the GOI to the TA start-up as
evidenced in the delays that occed in the review of TORs, selection of consultants and approval of
contas. Furthermore, it might have been helpful if more attention had been paid by the Bank to
reviewing and conmmntng on the consultants' reports, and providing appropriate guidance and
asistance to the implementaton agencies for necessary follow-up.



- 13 -
8.5   The self-fiacing objective for ESB was not reastic, given that it was a new Institution that
had to demonstrate the value of its services. Futhermore, there was no provision for cost recovety.
8.6 Lack of explicit linkage between the ESB's techmical assistance and the PTIs' credit
investments did not allow the genaion of synergistic effects, i.e., the PFIs would have helped ESB
promote its services through its lending operations and ESE would have enhanced PTh' export
investment proposals through its technical assistance. In fact, only one PFF among the tbree PTh
under EDP I had menioned the services of the ESB to some of their export clients. Among the other
PPis under EDP U, there was little understanding or interest in the activities or services of the ESB.
In general, a clear linlage between the credit component and the TA should have been established.
and it would have been useful if the TA had been designed as a coherent packge.
8.7    Unlike the TA component, the credit componen was closely supevisd on the loan level, in
terms of efficient utilization of credit funds and exdting disburements. The Bank provided on a
regular basis, about every 6-8 monts, a status report on the credit component to the Government.
Subloan applications were scrunid very closely to ensure the financial viability of the subproject
and of the enterprise. However, there were sil quite a few subloans which experienced financial
and operationad difficulties. Under EDP 1, a field survey was conducted in March 1990 on a sample
of 22 subloans financed under the loan. It was a useful mid-term evaluation to assess how the
subprojects had achieved the Project's investment and export objectives. The survey was welcomed
by the PFs and a similar field survey would also have been useful for the subloans financed under
the EDP I, pardtcarly in light of somewhat depressed export environment in 1990-92 (bigher
interest rates, new Government regulations, depressed export demands). Indirecty, significant
training and awarns on loan appisal techniques tanspired through the deailed comments and
queries provided by the Bank on subproject eligibility and/or viability.
8.8    Given the difficuldes in collecdon of data regaring subprojects' perfomane, in retrospect,
the Bank could have helped aU the PFIs set up a beter supervision and monioring system through the
semi-aDnual reporting mechanisml
9.   ower =n
9.1   Except for the delays in establsing the counterart teams, appoing consultants, and
submittng audits and progress reports, as well as reatively poor coordiation among Government
agencies for the TA activities, the pefomance of reevant Govemment agencies and participating
banks was generally good. TI'he main lessons could be learnt by the Borrower from the two projects
are summarized as follows.
9.2 A constant high level of commitment and support and an effective institutional arrangement is
important to the successful implementaion of the TA activities. At the loan negodation for BDP I, it
was agreed that the Secretay General (MOT) would take the responsibiity for overall coordiaon
and monitoring of the TA impetion and prepare proress reports for the Bank on a semi-aual
basis. However, shordy thereafter this responsibility was delegated to the Head, Agency for Trade
Resarch and Development (ATRD) of MOT. The first semi-a       progress report was due by end
Jamury 1987, but this was prpard until end 1988. This institutional arangement was mvised in
end 1988 making MOT and MOI responsible for the various TA activities under their purview.
However, it appears that no overall coordination for the whole TA or even within each ministry bas



- 14 -
been provided. In adtion, members of the respective steering commitmees were often not available
to review proposals and provide necesary guidance, which also resulted in delays in impl_iemtaon.
9.3   More attention and resources from the IA implemeion agencies concerned might have
been needed to ensure adequate support to the consultants and maximiing transfer of knowledge and
institutional building.
9.4 More attention should have been given to ESB's development strategy/plan, financing
requiement and autonomy. In particular, putting ESB on a sound and stable financial footing is a
matter of urgency. Energetic supports from the G0 and the private sector are vital to the
coinuation and further development of ESB's valuable services to the export sector.
9.5    Overall performance by the nine PFIs was satisfactory throughout the project period. The
"EDP Teams" was usefil in centraling the coordination of these loans but high turnover of staff in
these teams may have mitigated the gains in supervision quality and continuity. Appraisal capability
among the PFIs varied with the more experienced PPIs being able to have faster credit utilizion and
disbuemen. The appraisal reports submitted by the PPls, especially for larger investment
proposals, have been incomplete and inadequate and the viability of investments proposals was not
sufficienly analyzed. Greater emphasis needs to be given by PP1 management and staff to improving
the quality of their appraisal work. If the quality and completeness of data collected for this PCR is
an indication of the capacity of the PFIs in monitoring and supervising their subloan portfolio, greater
effots would be needed to strengthen the capacity of the staff at the branches and within the EDP
team, particularly in BRI, BNI and BBD.
10.   broist Reaiogmh
10.1  The Bank relationship withthe 001 agencies and participatig bas on the projects has been
satisfactory.
11.   CglsutngftServces
11.1 A very Iarge volume of consulting services (both from expatriate and local consultants) was
rendered in imple  ion of various TA activities. Although the consultants' performance varied
case by case, most of them cooperated with their respective countpats well and the reports prepared
by tham generllly were of good technical quality.
11.2 Among the conclusions and lessons that may be drawn in conmection with consulting service
are: (a) a clearly defined TOR is essential to the successful implementation of the assignment, and the
TOR should include a clear definition of the outputs epcted from the consultants and related
measures of quality and efectiveness; (b) the consWltant shoud be selected on the ground of technical
quaificaton; (c) a closer supervision and monitoring of consltants' work and thnely feedback and
guidance from the imple tion agenq (and the Bank) was important to ensure a satisfactory
perfoimance; to this end, an in-house capacity should be built up within the imple on agency;
(d) a post evaluatio and follow-up ystem should be set up to manxiize the benefits of consultants'
oput [see also para. 12.4 (b) below]; (e) a data base on consultants should be established and
updated by relevant agency for future reference.



12.   PWect Domgment      i    ata
12.1  The legal docments and SARs for both Projects were generally adequate, and provided
usefl references for project Implm ion. However, including a specific supervision pla in the
SAR would have greaty filitated the project implemenaton ad supervsion.
12.2  The progess reports, although often late, provided useful infomaion for keeping tracl of
project implementation. However, in retrospect, dt  Dank deed fomat for semi-anmnal progress
reports for the credit components hould have  cude more requiemens on the actalm subproject
performamce data, wbich would have helped al the baoks establish a btr  moniorg system and
would also have faciltated the an's post evaluation duing the PR process.
12.3   Difficulties were encountered in colectng informaion and dat to uXpate the commiment and
diburseme  status of the TA comont in the final stage of project impleentation, as well as
during the prepaaion of the PCR. Thbis was due to reaivdy poor monioring and fling, and staff
turnover of Bank and GOI staff. Many reports on TA acdvities (TORs, contrs, draft and final
reports) could not be located.
12.4  Two lessons learned in this conedon are: (a) staff involved in the project supervision should
have paid more attion to ensure all docments received were sent to the central files after
appropriate reiew; and (b) each imple ion agency should have been required to prepare a post
evaluation report for each TA acdvity upon its completion to assess the ete  the original objectives
were achieved, the main achievements and impact of the TA actvities, problems and issues during the
ilementation, constant's performance, lessons leat fhm the Implementaton, and a follow-up
acion plan.



- 16-
OA,IQ -72-ND a297922
PART I - PROBT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S          VE
(to be pided by (O0



_*~ == = ==    
111111 II



- Is -
B.      1        79-1W)
Ibem                Date Planed           Dat. Ravised          Date Actul
- Identificadon (BPS)           ._       _               _0131/87
Ppation                        11/12187     .                              11/12187
- Appraisd                      03/20/88       _                           OVlS/88
- Loan NegotatioW                 UIS/188             05/17188             0611318
- Board Aproval                 06/29/88                        _06129/88
- Lan Si    r         _                                                    08/24/88
- LAn Effectiveness                                                         11/16/88
- Loan Coi                      06/30/94              03/09M93             03/09/93
* Lon Completio                 12/31190              12131191              12_31/91



-19-
3. Loa Disbursemena
Cumulative Estimaed and Actual Disbursemenuts S minlionn
A. EDP I (Loan 2702-ND)
FY              1987       1988      1989      1990      1991       1992
Appraisal Esdimates        5.5      25.9      47.2       59.8      64.5    _
Actual                     0.0      20.7      43.8       52.9      58.5      64.0
Actu as % of Est.          0%       80%       93%        88%       91%
Date of Final Disbursement: August 7, 1992; $0.56 million was canceled.
B. EDP n1 (Loan 2979-MND?
FY              1989       1990      1991      1992      1993       1994
Appraisal Estimats         9.4      45.2      96.7      134.8      156.8     165.0
Actu                      17.6      70.9      122.5     144.6      148.1  _
Acal as % of Est.         187%      157%      127%      107%       95%
Date of Final Disbursemen  January 28, 1993; $3.6 million canced;
A pardal loan proceeds ($13.3 minlion) was also canceled in November 1992.



-20-
4. EMit CQs and Eiada
A. EDP I L}   2702-IND' prole  C s C         US  milion  la
Apptla Nedimaa                Rcubd BMsdata                 AMtaa Cosn
.a                - -.-        -                 a         -         -         -        - 
It________    Loca    Falgu    TOa        LOW      Fonig      Total     L Tal    Fog       Todal
CeIt CowoSw         38.0      58.0      96.0       NA       NA        NA                          103.0
TACoaPONt            2.6       9.6      12.2       NA       NA        NA          .                113
TraiaI               0.8       1.1       1.9       NA        NA       NA          ,                 1.6
Zel            414       68.7    110.1        NA       NA        NA                          115.9
M.               I         Ig ..   I           __                  I    _ _           I
EDP I Loan 27M2-MND) Project Financiny USS million) 
Ryhed                    Final
Sou                 Ph_d                 ._-                                      l
Amwnt         %         Amount
mmD                ~64.S                                                   63.9       55.1
Pp_du  Beals                       12.0                                     9.2        7.9
8ubPr~c  SPOMo                     33.6             _                      42.8       37.0
3              l110.1                                             IIS.9     100.0
a US$ 1.0    tp. 1742 thr th ca  compionen.



-21-
B. EDP         n 2979-IND  Prots    S million) a
Appa m dinuta               Rsdl Biata                    AecualCods
l_________  LocaT                             Loa    Fa,iz    TOWal               PFonlp    Tol
TOl              132.0    198.0    330.0      NA       NA        NA                         411.0
(mbptc)
I~.                                           l__C.____ _'1i':'-.
kvestnsot Cost_                                     _       _      _
EDP 11 ao   2979IND) Prect Finaninng              millign) .
Revisa                  Findl
Soo= r__     I_.d                                                        -       CI-1.
Amos         s         Amoua 
mmRD                             16S.0     NA          NA              148.1      36.0
P.tidci4paUu lsan                66.0       NA         NA               81.0      19.7
&ubrjst SPco                     9o9.0      NA         NA              181.9      443
S~ai                    330.0      NA         NA              411.0     100.0
/a US$ 1.0 = Rp. 1830



-22 -
A. DirectBeneits
Jodiceto                  Appiuha Nadoma             At Pull Devdpma*                 ckwnas
RDP I Lon 27-I)
No. of abpzeo  financed                  30                           51
No. ofjobs gsenetd                       NA                         15,021
Costpesjob sen_sted&Rp. n)               NA                          11.9
Avwage  bloan am (UsW                     NA                       1,000.00
EmP u dam  297@NIM
No. of aubp Xots financed                t1O                          159
No. of jobs gen d                       33,000                      54,008
Con pejob geerasead ft. a)               NA                         14,000
Averg sublomn gi (US$'O                  NA                         8A36.4
B. FinancialUmQct
FinanlAlWatofltm                A ppR EsMa                 At Full Developat                cemie
EDP I (Loa 2702-DD)                   20.0- 64.0%                 23.0- 67.0%          Bad an asraph of 7
-D? II (    n-DI)                     15.0.47.0%                  5.0-40.0%            Bad an a mn. of 36
C. Ioining
Indicat                           Apprisal EstinuteM
No. otexpoder u ad  enreva                             800                                    76
No. of trainers  aid                                    35                                    35
No. of Il1% staff tand ED  .0                                                                  39



Iiil    | $  | R||i    fi1i
XttJi II    11m                      2
; li!3t  201ff1    jiH~~~~
§t1~~  6V            '   ___ 



.24-
Stwae ofMotb                 No. of   Das in   SpeoWalvoa           Ratiew                Typ of
Ptojcc Cycl          Year    Pen          FEed      R_eseed          Sfwvo                  Noblbe
Threqgh A_pan             2/84       NA         NA           NA
5/84      NA         NA           NA
11184      NA        NA           NA
2/85      NA        NA            NA
Appasoal-        or         -
Boud Ap-BW -
Sup%vlsi                  10/86       3         14       PIn Anlyst          2        Slw upt-u, MlP ar amnt
03/87       2         14      Fi. Aayst,           2         CM wa ldy to be ddaye
tad  epeint                   amd becom  pronado
09/87       2         8        M. Analyst          1        Nan
Dev. Boni*
03188 /a     4        16/a      Fin. Anayst        B,B  Sfn              , NMU flintc
Dev. Ba84S                    flE W
11/SI       3         10      Fbn Anals,           I        DaIy InTA          i
Urae spedafit                    efaasnPo
07/8|9     5         S        FPhL Anlys          I
05/90       1        NA        Fin. Anays          I
12/90       1         15      P   Aayst            I        Fud raalcatln unsTA,
ESBs  gloegstegy
07/91       1         9        Fin. Analyst        I        Claog da to be axend
PCRMIslon                 02/93       2         9        Op. Ofer           KA         NA
/a  Combined with apprais  mission for EDP H.



-25 -
B. EDP U fLoa  2979-IND)
S Sm  (staff week)
Stage of Project Cycle              Planned         Revised         Finl         Commets
Tbrough Apprai                                 NA             NA             53.6
Appraisa through Board Approval                NA             NA              7.0
Board Approval through Effecdveness            NA             NA              2.0
Supervision                                    NA             NA             82.1
TOTAL                                                        144.7
fMlsions
&agoof            IdoUi        No. of     Daysin    Spasllluton       Rafti         Typo of
Pz*t Cyce l          Year       Paos         Flel      R_PiNtd          Status        Pxobha
Ti rmb Appda               1187          3          tNA      Pi. Anlyst
Dov. bank8g
N3/88        4           16       P.L Anlyst
Dow. D anv.g
Appuud *tob Board           NA          NA
BoadAppr     d ro           NA          MA
Effectiveum
SUP_Vlo                     llU          2          10       Fla. Aalyst        I
07/89        3           is      PIL.AIyst          1
OU90         I          NA        Pin. Analyst      I
11190 l       I           is       PirAaLalyst       1
P                          02M           2           9        op. Offi_t MA
sl   Ahou  the la $A-A8d  pavl d_o was cotplhIed Iin Nov. 1990,  al bolow-W    coau udin
doowit oher lfincl mIn ded ing 1991/1991. i        l, 1t         ed in               t mt
In    191.



26
PAGE I OF 6
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2702-IND)
PROECr COMPLETION REPORT
EXQRL SWQ BQ
1. 
1.1   Extensive field surveys of exportes have revealed many firm-lovel deficiencies, particuarly
in the areas of interonal markeig and production managemn, which can be removed or
allevied by providing appropriate consuiancy sevices to exporters and eport-oriented instutions.
To provde such tehmnical assistance to the export community, an Export Support Fund (ESF) and
Export Support Board (ESB) were set up under the Export Devedopment Project (EDP, Loan 2702-
IND), by Ministry of Trade (MOI) on a hree year trWial bass and as an auownomous body attached to
MOT. Upon completion of the trial period, the prive ser  would be encouraged to come up with
a scheme to manage and operat the ESF/ESB on a self-financing bas.
1.2   The main objectves of the ESB would be to provide guiance to the Searia Staff and
Technical Advisors and set priorides regarding thek wodr, and review and approe the proposals
submitted by potental users of the ESF. ESF would be used to finac  expdures of io ESB's
administrve costs; (I) dire  technc  assit    to eotes in the areas of mareting and
producing inteional competitiv induswtrl expors, incompany staff tainig; and (ih) teca
assistance to private istitions to strengtn specialized eVport support services.
2.
2.1   ESB has 6 board members, all of them are appoited by MOT. Its daily operations are run
by the Secretaiat, managed by the Ar  (also appointed by MOI). The Adminor is
assisted by over twenty local staff (project officer, administive and support staff). Two expatriate
advisors were also hired from Louis Berger Inc. to provide aistce to the Admi   during th
first two years of ESB's opeation.
3.    ESB QDera
3.1   ESB's technical assistance activites consist of 3 components: (a) assia  to private
exors, b) assistce to  port support o      ions   d (b)            operaions for Export
Quaity Upgrading ad Improvent Program (EQUIP). All ESB's asistance was on a co  sharig
basis - ESB provided 75% of finanig frm the exot support fund established under the project,
and the remaining 25% was covWed by the enteprs.
3.2    AssLSc sIco               ts inception In January 1988 (to March 31, 1992, the closing
dae of the Loa), six tye of  snc In the aa of produco mageme, qualiky
impovement, export marketig and tainit   (.e., techic   osta  in production,  hddbition,



27
PAGE 2 OF 6
leafet, promdoti trips, catalog and semias) have beean provided by ESB to 397 companies through
685 coas. The averago amount of financial assistance was Rp. 12.8 millIon (or US$6,800
equivalent), with maxium of Rp. 120 million (or US$64,000) and minimum of tp. 220,O0
(US$120). The breakdown of assistance (in tems of finding) is as follows (and respecdve tables
containing deted Information are attached to this annex).
a     In tem  of tchnical assistance provided, among the six tp  of assis     provided,
49% of ESB's assistance was for TA in production, 26% for exhibition, 12% for
leaflet, 11% for promotion trip, 2% for catog, and less than 1% for seminars;
o In terms of Industries assisted, among the 19 product categories, four subsectors
received 62% of ESB's assistance in terms of value: 22% for furniure, 19% for
garment, 13% for handicraft, and 8% for wood products;
*     in term  of geographical ditrion, among the 15 areas received assistance,
JABOTABEK area ranks first with 59%, far more than any area else; West Java ranks
second with 11 %; Central Java ranks third with 8%; and
*     49 local and 120 foreIgn technical experts (from 17 countries) were hired to provide
technica assistance.
3.3   ESB also provides advice, free of charge, to Indonesian expote/producers, -pecally to
those receivg or received techn    assistace from ESB, in the areas of: providig marlet data,
potenl buyers, reuitmn  of right experts for imprving quality, production system and cost
redon, snd planing for business trips and study tours.
3.4    AMIArt gooEN=          Qrt gumIana Assistance has been provided to 29 ewport
support organiations (Ie., trade or producer associations) ough 59 committed contacts. While
there wer few applications during the first two years, with itnsive promotion by ESB on the
availability of such assista, applications increased during 1990 and 1991. About US$ 0.85 million
equivalent was provided to six types of assistance (.e., technical assistce, exhibition, leaflet,
promotion, ctalog and seminar). Among them, exhibition acounts for 47%, catog and tehical
assistance account respectively 18%. A detailed breakdown is provided in the A ttahm  4 of this
Ame.
3.5     _m    fio wLQ03io rLk FaM   The opeations were designed to directly assist private
sctor and also, indirectly MOT (Direcorate for Stn  and Quality Control). The project
objective wa to impro production proess and products quaity under diret guance of foreign
consultns to meet  ndetio  tandard. The funds allocated to hdis component was US$900,000.
While D irctora  of Standization and Quality (DrTSANDAU) under MOT was respoble
for the tehnical matte, ESB's role was limited to conUact and fiancial dministion of the
program
3.6    Cen   iter Laboroires d'Etudes et de Realitions (CERLAB) of Franc
was selecd as the conutant, with Multi-Finas Perdma as the local parter. The project
Impi       n was delayed svea  times mainly becue of changes in the selected industrW sectors



28
PAMB $ OP6
and difficulties in recruitng iner     enterprises. The contract was siWed on Augut 9, 1990, but
officily started on January 2, 1991. The opeaions were completed on March 31, 1992.
3.7   Four sectors finly selcted were: wood, leather, rubber and electrical cable. Each sector
was to ave 2 enters forparpicipadon, but this target was very hard to attaanAs of December
31, 1991, there were 7 participating enterprises still in the program. Others withdrew from the
program because of the difficulty In fulfilling the 25% self-financing amowunt of Rp. 615 mIllion for
each participating enterprise. A detailed assessment for this operation is provided In a separate Annex
for Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program (EQUIP).
3.8   Total disbursement through ESB under the Loan was US$ 7.59 million, of which, US$ 2.41
million was for ESB's operating cost (cluding $0.89 million for foreign tecal advisors), $3.60
million for assistance to exporters, $0.74 million for assistance to export-related organizations, and
$0.83 million for demonstation perations under EQUIP.
4.    IDeefit ad in
4.1 The main purpose of providing assistance to the exporters is to Induce them to generate as
much foreign exchange eanings as possible. To this end, a cost and benefit analysis has been
conducted to measure the impact of the ESB assistance.
4.2   The net export gain (benefit) was calculated by comparing the value shpped before the
asistance with the value shipped during and after the assistance in the relevant period of analysis.
The cost factors were: (a) the ESB cost (ESB contribution in the project); (b) the exporter cost
(exporter contrution in the project); and (c) total ESB and eporter cost.
4.3   The beneft/cos ratio was alculated from the net export gain due to ESB asistn  divided
by the appropriate cost factors. The following table shows results of such calculation for a sample of
35 companies from January 1988 (beginning of ESB operation) to December 31, 1991:
Product         Number of          ESB          Exporter      Total
Category         Companies       B/C Ratio      B/C Ratio    B/C Ratio
Processed Food            5              132            130          65
Wood Products             2               36            106          27
Furtre                    14              20             44           14
Garments                  5               10             7            4
Handicraft                3                8             21           6
Other                     6                1              1            1
Overall                   35              36             32           17



29
PAGE 4 OP 6
4.4   As shown above, the product group with the highest B/C ratio was processed food. ibis
group product retured a benefit/cost ratio of 132, 130 and 65 repectively, meaing tat, for each
US$ investment, export sales increased by US$132, 130 and 6S respectively. Altough this rsult
was based on a small sample (five exporters), the retus are cinly impressive and sufficien to
warrant further development of this product group. The overall total B/C ratio was 17, which is
considered satisfactory.
4.5   The ESB assistance has definitely conributed to a change in the attitude of Indonesin
entrepreneurs to whom assistance was provided. They become more active and assertive in marketg
among others by printing inenationl standard of brochures, more frequent participation in
intnational exhibitions, and conducting promotion trips to targeted countries. Ihe ESB cost shaig
aangement in production matters has also opened the eyes of the entreprenus tat process
production efficiency program and improvement of products quaity Is very critical and bas to be done
immediately. Ihe ESB assistance in export marketing as well as in production maters has directly
improved the perfomance of Indonesian products internationally.
4.6   Generally speaking, ESB have provided very valuable assistance and support to Indonesian
exporters (mainly small and medium in size), and the results have been satisactory. Only a very
small mber of the companies which received assistance have failed to export due to various
reasons.
5.    Current Status and Future Plan
5.1 An independent consultant, the Institute for Economics and Social Research of the Faculty of
Economics, University Indonesia (LPEM - FE U!) has conducted a comprehensive study on ESB's
present and fiture organization and operation. Among the main recommendatons were:
o     The organizational structure of ESB needs to be Improved. Still as an autonomous
body outside the Govermment bureaucracy but with a broader membep of the
Board (up to 20) to include relevant Government officials, s e e b  and
other corporations) and prominent entrepreneurs and associations;
o     The types of assistance in the future should be in the form of non-interest bearig
loans;
e     Operating funds should be mobilized from: (a) additional export handling cost based
on export value; (b) contribution by state banks, (c) industrial associatlons, (d)
contribution by large state owned and private enterprises, (e) donor conties, and (f)
World Bank; and
o     Sectors targeted for assistance should be: (a) ma g,(b) fishery, (c)
agriculture and hortdculture, and (d) mining.
5.2   As oudined in the tems of reference, ESB was supposed to become a self-financing instiution
In the end of a three-year tral operaion. his objectivo has not been achieved. Since the closing



30
PAGE S O 6
date of March 31, 1992, ESB's operaton cost has been covered by the Government in approximately
$1 million for a year. ESB's export-oriented tchnical assistance has since then been provided on a
interest-free loan basis. This budget can only allow ESB to continue its assistance at a marginal level.
The Government has agreed to continue financing ESB to the same extent for its fiscal year
1993/1994 (up to March 31, 1994). However, no fiuther financing is committed beyond that time.
5.3    Asian Development Bank is preparing an export development loan to Indonesia. ESB has
approached ADB for financial assistance (about $10 million) under this loan. But no decision has
been made by the Government.
5.4   According to ESB, under the existing Government regulations, each stateowned enterprise is
required to contribute 5% of its annual net profit to small sized enterprises, on a low interest rate
(about 11%) loan basis, to help promote the small business sector. Largely due to lack of capacity to
idenify and select feasible projects, these special funds have not been effectively utilized and a large
amount (in the range of $300 - 400 million) has been accumulated. ESB has proposed to the
Government to tap this resource, but no response has been received. In addition, ESB has also
proposed that its financing requirement could be met from export value added and import duties.
5.5 ESB has recently signed agreements with two banks (BDN and BTN) and one enterprise
(SUCOFINDO, with responsibilities including export control of four product groups - ratn, wood,
rubber and leather). Under the agreements, ESB will help to select good exporters who need working
capital and make proposal to BDN, BIN and SUCOFINDO. If they consider ESB's proposal
acceptable, they will make a low interest rate loan (from their specially reserved N5% net amual
profit") directy to the exporters. ESB does not get any kind of compensation either from BDN (or
BTN, SUCOFINDO) or from the exporters. ESB feels fine with such arrangement since its operating
cost is covered by the Government budget The idea is that, through this type of activities, ESB
hopes to fiuter demonstrate its capability in promoting export and to eventually tap this large
financing resource. ESB plans to sign similar agreements with BankExim and BAPINDO. Under
this arrangement, ESB is receiving a lot of applications from small and medium entprises.
6.    Issues anL&es
6.1 As mentioned above, ESB's self-financing objective as defined under the project has not been
achieved. Two points need to be mentioned in this connection: (a) the *self-financing" (after ESB's
first three years operation) was included in the ESB's operating objectives, but no mechanism as how
to achieve this goal was actually designed or developed during the project design and implementation.
Under the project design, ESB provided assistance to exporters on a cost sharing basis (ESB covered
75% of total cost as grant, and recipient covered 25%), no cost recoverin system was set up; and (b)
given that ESB was a new instituton providing new services, setting "self-financing as a target in a
relatively short period of time may not be consistent with the mandate to play a pr-active role in
mnurn new acities.
6.2 There has been no direct linkage between ESB's technical assistance and PFIs' investment
operations. Several PFT under EDP II even did not know the availability of ESB's services. Some
sort of linkage or relatonsi between the two components would have benefitted all pardes involved,



31
ANX
PAGE 6 1O 6
ESB would have heped PFIs to sdect more qualified and feible cGiet, PPh would ave heped
ESB promote od expand is thical srvices, and tie export en rises would have received both
tecical and finanal assistance from ESB and Pl7s.
6.3   ESB has xperienced very quick staff umovers, maiy becuse: (a) ESB's fute b stil
uncertain, there i no secure guarantee; (b) readvely low pay. ESB b supposed to be an autonomous
instituon, but Its staff salary is controlled by the Government. t b difficult to ata  competent
staff under its curren salary level (alhdough sllghy higher an that of Govement officers, much
lower than In private sector); and (c) becas of the Govermens control, there are very few
opporunies for ESB staff to atend mins and   ences to update and expand their knowledge.
Therefore, it is common tat when staff have worked for ESB for about one year which is long
enough to leam everythng and buid up a broad connection network, they just quit ESB and start a
higher paid career in the private sector. Under the cugrrnt strctre, k I difficult for ESB to keep a
competent staff, who are essetal to the suces of an istition like ESB.
6.4   ESB has experienced difficulties In selectng and hiring forelgn ep    to provide tedhnical
services. First i is very tim  consuming to Identify and select qualified expert. Once they are
selected, it is another very lenthy process to obtain working pemit for them (foreign experts), and
sometimes the selected exper  ould not wait too long.
6.5   ESB is supposed to be an autonomous histution. However, while it has the atority to
conduct the business - providing export-rated tecnial assitnce, its funding has to depend on the
Goverment, and any saff-Improvementrelated matters (such as atending seminars and conferences)
have to be subject to the Goven     approval.
6.6   The EDP I was approved in May 1986. The MOT decre for establishme  of ESB was
Issued also in 1986. However, ESB did not start its techical assistnce until Januay 1988, mainy
because it took a long dme to (a) recruit the Ad r; (b) recruit qualified staff; and (c) find
office space.



32
Qanuary 1, 1988 - March 31, 1992)
Amount Disbursed            %
Type of Assitance                                                 Number of
In Rp. (m)       or in US$                  Co
TA for Producdon, ec.         3,352.44        1,770,954.86    48.74          131
Exhibiton                     1,773.60         936,919.73    25.78           272
Leaflet                        820.08          433,216.86    11.92           168
Promotion Trip                 775.56          409,694.89    11.28           103
Catalog                        156.43           82,633.72     2.27            10
seminar                          0.41              213.94     0.01             1
Tota                          6,878.52        3,633,634.00 L 100.00       68S.00
Note: Number of          assisted: 397



33
A'TTACHMENT 2
VALUE Of 'SS ASS&  DISTIBTE
13Y ERP    A       OR
(January 1, 1988 - March 31, 19)
Product               Amount Disbursed                    Contrat
No.        Categor          in Rp. COO)       r in USS               Commtted
1  Agro Products             251,681.52      132,953.08    3.66          13
2  Automotive                 53,558.82       28,292.94    0.78          10
3  Ceranics;                   6,392.63       3,376.97     0.09           1
4  Cosmetics                  29,828.73       15,757.30    0.43           6
5  Electronics                46,491.13      24,559.37     0.68           6
6  Foods                      48,773.73      25,765.17     0.71           6
7  Furniture                1,492,899.84     788,638.12    21.70        142
8   Garments                 1,302,795.99     688,214.01    18.94        138
9   Handicraft                888,884.23      469,561.30    12.92        137
10  Home/Office Prod          305,050.31     161,145.64     4.43          26
11  Ind. Products              240,230.12     126,903.78     3.49          8
12  Leather Goods              105,600.82      55,784.61     1.54         15
13  Processed Foods            341,101.60     180,190.07     4.96         24
14  RecreatloniToys            189,272.40      99,984.89     2.75          14
15  Shoes                      412,085.14     217,687.78     5.99         31
16  Textiles                   217,802.95     115,056.42     3.17         34
17  Tradtidonal                 37,904.25      20,023.27     0.55          6
18  Wood Product               562,166.41     296,969-59     8.17         31
19   Others                    345,984.89     182,769.71     5.03          37
6__ 
_Total                      6,878,505.51   3,633,634.02    100.00 r  685.00



34
ATIACHMENT 3
By 9QgRBUCL WCATIQ
(January 1, 1988 - March 3 1992)
_,,. . ............,-   .  ....                                          .    ..  ......... .  =   
No        ReJn               No. of Couna  by Type of Assistnc       Amo-t
_  ___ ___ _ a..........................commit....   %
EX    FR    LF  CA   SE    TA  Total            m)
man     -     -w  =wwm                 -
1  Ambon                 0     0      1    0    0      1        2       9.22    0.1
2   Bali                 9    12      9    0    0      2       32     229.25    3.1
3   Nusa T.Timur         0     0      1    O    O      O        1       8.00    0.1
4   JavaTengah           9      9    11    0 O        1I       40     580.40    8.0
5  JavaTimur            5s      3     7    1    O      6       32     317.00    4.4
6   JABOTABEK           187    49   103    8    0    65       412   4,279.29   58.7
7   Lampung              I     0      0    0    0      1        2       5.91    0.1
8   Sulawesi Utara       1      1     1    0    0      2        S      34.97    0.5
9   Sumatra Utara        4      1     3    0    0      9       17     381.20    5.2
10  Sulawesi Selatan     0      0     1    0    0      2        3      38.27    0.5
I1  SumatrmSelaean       4      1     4    0    1      3       13     241.62    3.3
12  Riau                 1      00          0    0      1       2      53.14    0.7
13  Java Barat          33    26    18    1    0    22        100     809.11   11.1
14  SumatraBarat         1      1     s    0    0      3       10     216.46    3.0
15  Yogyakarta           7      0     4    0    0      3       14      88.99    1.2
Total              272   103   168   10     1    131 1   685   7,292.83  100.0
Note: EC - Exhibition
PR - Ptomotion Trip
LF - Leaflet
CA - Caaog
SE - Seminar
TA - Technicd Asistance



35
ANNEX 1
ATTACHMENT 4
YALUE OF ESB'S ASSISTANCE DISMUTED TQ ASSOCIATONS
BY TYPE OF ASSISTANCE
(January 1, 1988 - March 31, 1992)
Amount Disbursed
Type of Assistance                                                 Number of
In Rp. (m)       Or in US$                  Contra
Technical Assistance            288.73          152,525.75    17.86            14
Exhibition                      765.63          404,453.65    47.35            17
Leaflet                          80.61           42,585.36     4.99             7
Promotion Trip                  121.30           64,079.97     7.50             6
Cataog                          296.15          156,444.21    18.32            11
Senr                             64.49           34,069.03     3.99             4
Total                         1,616.91[         854,157.97   100.00         59.00
Note: Number of export support associations assisted: 29



36
ANNEX2
PAGE 1 OF 4
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2702-IND)
PROJECT COMPEON REPORT
EXPORT QUA= IPRROVMENT ND UPGRADING PROGAUM EQUI
1.  BacndM9bj on
1.1    Deficiencies in product quality of nonoil exports have been a significant problem for
Idonesia, depressing export value and growth. To rectify the situation, the Government
commisioned a number of Bank-financed studies (under BAPINDO V and Technical Assistance V) tO
address hiis problem. On the basis of these reports, a core program to improve export quity was
identifled, taking into account Indonesia's priorities for export development, skilled manpower
availlbility, status of institutional infrastructre, product comparative advantage and marketing
prospects. The core program (Export Quality Improvement and Upgrading Program - EQUIP) was to
focus on three immediate objectives: (i) inpwing government regulations, needed to encourage
voluntary export quality certification and labelling; (ii) developing an institutional network for quality
x      _qpment assistance to enterprises; and (1ii) demonstating to the business community that advanced
quality management is possible and profitable.
1.2   To meet above objectives, the EQUIP had two basic subcomponen:
(a)        ghtdag!b f the OulW SUM      ork (SO         Ibis subcomponent was to
focus on improving the capability of the network of accredited agencies (such as the
Central Test and Quality Control Laboratory - PPMB, and the network of associated
regional laboratories) to provide the business communty a variety of services
including quality testing of products, advice on using quality control and testng
equipment, assistance in implemenng quality management system, and information
and assisne on technological matters. Ihe program would include feasibility
studies for new technical centers for quality assistance in such areas as: pacaging,
design, furni, textles-garmens, processe food; study for adopting a voluntary
erification and marking system; and training of staff from quality control agencies;
and
(b)     Tai M a=  Demonsn ions (QMD    The success of the export
quality improvement strategy hinges lagely on the extent to which the
producerslexpo8e adopt advanced quality management sytm . In order to
motivate the export community to use modern quality management methods as an
integral part of overall production management, the EQUIP included a don
progrm, which was flnced under Export Support Fund (ESF) managed by ESB, on
a cost saring basis. The QMDO would inude consultig service of one or two
qualiy managem    expers, training of local managers and staff, insIlation of
modern product testag equipment, adoption of advanced quality control procedures,



37
ANNEX2
PAGE 2 OF 4
acces to information on quality network abroad, and promotion inside Indoneda and
abroad.
2.                           bWDM=
2.1    Both SQSN and QMDO were Implemeted by the Standardization and Quality Control
Directorate under the MOT, assisted by a selected consltant, Centre nlter Laboratories d'Etudes et
de realisations (CERLAB). ESB was also Involved in the administration of QMDO.
2.2 The SQSN was started in May 1988, and completed In March 1992. The actual cost was
US$1.6 million (compared to the original esdmate of US$1.3 million, which is considered
underestimaed). The QMDO was started in August 1990 and completed in March 1992. This
subprogram was finced under the Export Support Fund manage by ESB on a cost sharing basis
(ESB covered 75%, and the pardtipang enterprises covered the remaiin 2S%). The original
estmated cost (for the Bank financing pan) was US$1.0 million, the actua cost was US$0.8 million.
3.    Main Achievement& and 4Jm
3.1   SOSN Suboro    Overall, this subprogram has been considered successful. Although there
were delays in the inital stat, most of the activities have been implemented as planned.
3.2 In performing its assignments, CERLAB has met with several government authorities and
representives from the private asciaton concerned with the project. In order to evaluate the
siuation in the field, several manufacturers have been visited to identify the needs for respective
specialists and to prepare the traning programs. The following activities have been covered under
ths subprogram:
-     Technical Centers
-     Short tm taiing
-     Accreditation system
-     Code of practices
-     Quality manement aining
-     Sampling techniques taiing
-     Overseas technical trining
-      Iformation network abroad
3.3   The consultant made recommendations in the areas of: tecbnical centers (for wood and ratt
products); continuation of traing prog; utilization of computer system; national accrediaion
scheme; and information network abroad.
3.4    QMO               As a follow-up to SQSN, QMDO was designed to direcly assist the
private sector. Four sbsectors (woodworking, leather products, rubber goods and electrical cable)
with 7 factries pardcipated, and the following activities were covered under this subprogram:
(a)    Study tous abroad (by fctory managers), including visiting to technical centers,
fctories, and attending trade fairs and seminars as proposed by    teical experts;



38
PAGE 3 OF 4
(b)    Evaluation of conditions of the partdcipating factories, including  ufing
process, production organization, working procedures, workshoplfactory layout, raw
materias, finished products; and based on the evaluation, romeaons for
change and Improvement have been made to the factory management and have been
generally implemented;
(c)    Setting ur quality control system and development of quality man ment manual
particularly for the electical cable subsector, in order to meet intna   sudards
and to farther obtain cerdfication;
(d)    Partcipation of top mangent in quality control seminars; aining of fatoy staff
on quality system;
(e)    Purchasing neceswary equipment as recommended by the experts;
(t)    Laboratory testng of product quality to check compliance wit international sndards;
and invitation of quality control specialists from abroad; and
(g)    Promotion activities by means of video program, brochures, etc.
3.5    As a pilot project, QMDO has made positive impacts on the 5 (2 from electical cable
subsector, 2 from wood ubsector, and 1 from leather subsector) out of 7 pardcipatg enterprises
who stayed longer with the program. Ihe electrical cable subsector seemed hxving been bneftted
the most; at least one enterprise is ready to be certified for ISO-90  standards. Two enterprises did
not benefit much because the technical disputes between the enterprises and the consltants (see para
4.4 below).
4.    Isues Leon and Recommendations
4.1    Both subprograms have experienced implementation delays (by more tha half year), due to
difficulties in appointing the team leader by CERLAB and in selecting local participating enterprs
(because they had to pay 25% of the cost and they were not sure about the benefits of participation).
This delay resulted In changes of agenda and tecnical eperts.
4.2   The tem  of refrence (TOR) was not detailed and specific enough, which caused some
confiusion during the Implemetion. As a resut, the orignal agreement had to be amended sever
tmes. Although the closig date of the Loan was extended for three months to March 31, 1992, the
startng delay and also dday in signing the amendments made some activities be completed in a
hurry.
4.3    Ie mordnation between the local countearts and the consultant was insuffient, esially
during the frst few monXt, and inadequ  local countpart funds prevented the local team from an
active participation in the progm. In addition, the team leader (appointed by CERLAB) did not get
full support from the main contractor, CERLAB, both financially and technically.



39
-ANNEXZ2
PAGE 4 OF 4
4.4    Performa    of individual consultants varied. Some of them even did not speak Enlish,
which caused difficultieS in efcive commucation. CERLAB also reported difficulty in recruiting
qualified local eets. Pefrman  of the team leader ad the consultas for wood and cable
subsectors has been considered very      in ahieving the project objectives, but hat of
consulta  for leather and mbber subsetors was not satisfctory. One factory claimed that the
formula recommended by the leather tanney consulta was not suible; another factory complained
that the rubber consultant made inappropriat specifications.
4.5    The following conclusions and lessons could be dawn from this opeation:
(a)    The packge of acvities offered to the enterpries in the QMDO program was found
to be too comprehensive to achieve in such a short period;
(b)    Th man-months of both foregn and local consultants were considered inadequate to
be effective. The QMDO was only suitable for medium and large entpries having
financial resourc, an established o onal structure and quaified staffing. Ihe
smaler enteprise are not ready to take advantage of such program;
(c)   Indusy-wide impact of such progrm  may not be immediately realized.
Disseminaton of quality upgradig lkowledge was limted to confrences and
worshops, and badouts of a generalized quality manuali"; and
(d)   ITh program has generated a stng iterst in quality managemen among various
inustries in te pivate sector. Any fbaresuch program should have more impact if
it is more focused on the specific needs ad respective industries, and more
entrAtion shldwd be given to problem Idenifcaton and solving for each particular
enteprise. Approprite and qualified thnical experts should be hired to work on
site on a fill tim  basi to effectively give guidance, get feedba    and transfer of
technical know-how.



40
PAGE I OF 2
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2702-IND)
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
ERNPWJ= EK   >U    GUARANTE 0
1.1   The TA progrm for P.T. Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia (PT ASEI) covered two areas: (i)
Preshipment Export Finac Guarnee (PEFG), and (ii) Export Credit Insurance and Guarantee
(ECI/G). While PEFG covers the exporters' non-performance risk, ECI/G covers the overseas
buyers' non-payment risk. The program was designed to strenten the managem    and opations
of PT ASEI by providing assistn  and advice in all relevant areas of PEFG and EChG including:
fancial aspects, management, orgaiton and staffing, technial procedures and opeatio
pratces, training and legal framework.
1.2   The contract was signed on Aprfl 1, 1988, with a US based consultant and completed on
November 30, 1989. The find report was daed Jamury 1990. The acta cost was US$0.4 million.
1.3 The program was carried out In two phases. The Phase I report for PEFO evaluated
Indonesia's PEFG scheme and concluded that the scheme scored highly in the avai ity of cover,
co  and processing time but low in the competiveness and effectiveness of claims resolution,
flexibility of standards and claims processing. The report included proposals and  ons
fir each of the isues where there were deficiencies. However, viruly none of the
recommendations made by the consultant was implemented, as suggested by the Bank (see para 1.4
below).
1.4   The Bank involved atvely during the implemenation of this program, hru   field
supervision, as well as by reviewing and commenting on the draft report. In partiduar, for the
Phase 11 work program, the Bank's November 1988 supervision mission reviewed the consltnts
Phase I Report and had reservations In approving the tasks that proposed to be carried out durg the
Phase HI, In view of the complexity of the PEFO work, the need to take into account the rfrms in
Bank Inesia's preshipmen export financing mechanisms, and the consultaOt's lack of instuonal
experience md analytic capability in the PEFO area. Given the crtical ierddnce between
preshipment export finance and PEPG, it was the Bank's opinion that it would be appropriate to first
len about the major thrust of the prposed refoms in Bank Indonesa's preshipmt ewxport
fnancing refrm before embarking on the Phase II work for PEFG. An IBRDfI  joint mission on
export policy review in August 1989 also reviewed the Indons ECG  and PEFG wih the
Government. Ihe mision's findin  and    m      o  were included in a white cover repo on
Indonesian export policy. In addition, the Bank also prepaed a policy note on ECIIG and PEFG to
the Goverment in 1990.
1.5    As a result of the Ban's above reservations, a substanti part of work for PEFO proposd
by the consultant was canceled. The only work conducted by the consultant on PEFG through eand of
the consulting serice was rdead to the area of claim  ysis.



41
A3X3
PAGE 2 OF 2
1.6   Ibe ECIIO program as well as other work related to accountIngma ment Infonation,
marketi sad mapower plangainng were uly implemented by the consultn  PT ASEI was
satsfied with the consultant's perormance in thb aea, and has absorbed all the lkowledge and skills
provided by the consultant In order to develop the ECIG progm. As a result, Pr ASHrs ECI/r
portfolio was increased from 0.04% coverage of national exports in 1988 to 2.76% In 1991.



42
PAGE 1 OF 4
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPhIENT PROJECT (LOAN 2702-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
1.1   Strentihening the manpower resources needed to lncrease non-oil export by enhancing the
exlsin# trainin capcity Is an important elemnat of Indoneias export development strategy. In
1985, a Study on Indonesian Traing Needs for Export DevelopmentW was conducted by the
Internatonal Trade Center OM  and LP3ES (Instute of Social and Econmic Reseach Education
and bIformation, Jakarta) under the Bak financing. The study oudined a comprehe manpower
developnt srategy for inreasing non oil epots, dentifled substni training needs and
recommended a comprehenive action plan  hmplementation of the recommend strategy would take
several years and would need to be phased, especially the development of new traing nsituion to
meet the long term exporter educatnal and tramng needs.
1.2   The Expr Taining Program (EP) fancd under the Expr Development Project inlduded
Only the inidal phase of the above program and comprised tiining in the highest priort ares by
supportng a program of shortm tining for exporters and govemen staf and trainers.
2.  lo _ _d
2.1   Ihe main objectves of the ETP wer:
(a)   to strenthe  he e       or  Wag Capabilities of loc ta educaonal instuons;
(b)   to provide short term, on the job taning to potential and act  exo , export-
oriented manufa       and supplieas of specialized sevices to exporters, and
governent officials.
2.2   To meet the above objectives, the ETP comprised the following activites:
(a)           1          to train 35 trais from local traig  ist     In the whole
range of more tan 30 export-rlated topics including export maeting, export
produc deveopment, export financg, legI   aspet of foren trade). Ihe training
program shod be designed In a way ta sufficient trans  of sills fm the
Consultants to the local tas so that they could teach, under the consltants genera
suervision, durig the scoond year, and to replace the conDsutants during the last year
of the progrua. 10 trae!/m aes would be sponsored to participate in specialized
export relatd trainig prom  offered overeas.
Ob)    jMjW   gf lhin  Zto conduct 40 workshops for a total of arit  800
participan, mainly exporters, and to a limted ext, pUlic officals, h a broad



43
ANNEX 4
PAGE 2 OF 4
range of export related topics. Training should also be provided to export service
intutions including banks, insurance fim  and shipping companies. In addition,
worishops should also be conducted with focus on development of consultancy skills
in the areas of export development and promotion.
3. 
3.1 A Project Management Unit (PMU) was set up under the Secretary General of MOT for
management of ETP, under which a Sectarat was handling the daily operations. The execution of
ETP was done by 4 local training nituions (i.e., Lembaga Pengembangan Perbankan Indonesia -
LPPI, Istito Pengembangan Manajemen Indonesia - IPMI, Lembag Manajemen Fakultas Ekonomi,
University of Indonesia - LMPE-UI, and Indoconsult) and MOT (the Indonesia Export Training
Center - IETC), and assisted by SERCo, a foreign consultant selected which also provided overall
coordination for ETP.
3.2 The actual cost of ETP was almost US$1.59 million. The contract with SERCo was signed
on February 1, 1989, and a contract with PT Indoconsult (as coordinator for all the four local traing
institutio)was signed on July 16, 1990. The whole ETP was conducted for a duration of 30
months (from May 15, 1989 to November 15, 1991) in three phases:
(a)    Phase I (Sel, 89 - July 90): during which seminars and workshops were conducted
by the foreign consultants for all the trainers in the first 9 of the core subjects to bring
their knowledge up to a common standard;
(b) phase II (Aun 90 - May 91): seminars were presented to exporters by the foreign
consultants with assistance and back-up of the trainers who received training during
Phase I; and
(c)    Phase   une 91 - October 91): seminars were presented to exporters by the trainers
with supervision and evaluation by the foreign consultants.
3.3 The main achievements are summarized as follows:
(a)    35 triners were trained, of them 27 attended all training courses and became filly
wmpetent in planning, organizing, presenting and evaluating traning seminars
covering more than 30 export related topics. The trainers replaced the Consultants
for the six seminars in year 3 of the program. The trainers also produced the
majority of 35 cas studies based on Indonesian experiences;
(b)    18 semnsworkahops were conducted with 736 partIcipants consisting of small and
medium exportes or pottial exporters, staff of larger exporters, ewxport reaed
aociaton, bank staff and governt officials; Most of these participas were
from prive sector; The training seminars included action learing, group
discussions, case studies and simulations; and



44
PAGE 3 OF 4
(c)    25 trainers and Government officials pardcipated in more advanced short term tining
programs overs: 10 visited Europe in August 1991, and 15 visited Hong Kong,
USA and Bangkok in October 1991.
4.    Impc Ana3ys
4.1   It is very difficult to assess t  Impact of ETP quantitatively. However, the objectives as
described above were generally achieved. All participants (trainaes, exporters, and govenament
officials) benefitted a lot from the program.
4.2 The composition of the trainers participated in the ETP was as follows:
OF THE             OF THE
AGENCY           "27 TRAINERS       "35" TLAINEIS
MOT MIEC)                   8                  8
INDOCONSULT                13                  1S
LMFE-UI                     2                  3
IPMI                        3                  7
LPPI                        1                  2
All above agencies have been offering training programs for the private sector. Among the eight
tainers participated from MOT in the ETP, one from IETC, 2 from Directorate General of Forei
Trade, 3 from Directorate of Domestic Trade, one from National Agency for Export Development -
NAFED, and one from Seariat General. The one from IETC (IEMM  was established in 1989
under financing frm the Japanese  emntional Cooperation Agency and has its own training facilites
in Jakarta) has been conducting trainig on a regu  basis; two MOT officials are now vworking in
Indonesian embassies as trade assistants, and others are sdill worklng as MOT officials in chage of
trining and are occasionally invited to ddiver training coues.
4.3   Indoconsult is a local consulting company with an education/taining divion; LMFE-UI
engages in formal education and training as a university; IPMI is the Instimte of Management
Development of Indonesia offering tinin services regarding general management and inteaional
trade; and LPPI is the Indonesian Banking Development Institute providing training services to the
baidng sector. All these insttions have been pving taining srvices, and ha  benefite from
the ETP.
4.4   Ihe training case studies developed under the ETP are also being utlized by IETM and other
universities on a case by case basis as appropriate.



45
4&M 
PAGE 4 OF 4
4.5    No post evaluation was made after completion of the EIP. But at the and of each training
seminar or workshop, a questionnaire was usually handed out to the participant for eauation and
comments. Ihe overall feedback of such survey was good.
5.     =            Lim
5.1    All the planned activities were carried out. Altiough there were some chaages In freig
consultants, this did not affect adversely the EWP since the replacements were in equal qualification or
higher.
5.2    Considerable delays were experienced during the selection of the consultant nd reviwing and
revising draft conact. It took almost two years from issuance of letter of Invtaton tO signatrm of
the contract.



46
_ANNEX S
PAGE 1 0F 4
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2702-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MM-AND OTHlER PP9QGRAMlS TIN=1R TA COWONEN
1.    Sudy oa the Role of Trading Companies in Non-oil Exort Development
1.1   Tbe objective of this study was to provide a detailed plan to develop the role of trading
companies In Indonesia's export promotion effort.
1.2 Ihe contract was signed on July 1, 1989, and completed in February 1990. The actual cost
was US$149,000. A foreign consultant, International Planning and Analysis Center (USA), jointly
with a local consultant, Pusat Informatika, conducted the study.
1.3 The study proposed that Indonesia's strategic direction for export growth should be based
upon the targeted market development programs. Within thbis strategy, the consultants recommended
several options to support private sector market development efforts and enhancement of the role of
trading companies in non-oil export development. These options included: promoting private sector
market development programs through groups and associations; promotng trading conpany services
to producers; promoting alliances between Indonesian trading companies and foreign intmediaries;
streamlining state trading company export operations; etc.
1.4 The consultauts had good cooperation with the steering committee and counterpart team in
carrying out the study, and there was transfer of knowledge to the counterpa. The consultants held
eetings with the government officials, associadons and state owned trading companies, although it
was often difficult in arranging these meetings.
1.5 None of the consultants' recommendations have been Implemented, mainly because of changes
of the situation in Indonesia. Since 1986, the Government had implemented a major deregulaion
program in the trade sector, many big companies and conglomerates were established and they built
up their own trading capacities. Therefore, the role of the state owned trading companies in
promoting non-oil eport has been gradually reduced. There are now eight trading companies under
MOT, most of them are not performing well.
1.6   A very long lead time (about two years) was taken in the preparation of the proposal,
finalization of TOR and selection of consutant. In fact, by the time the study was about to start, the
trade situation in Indonesia had gradually changed. Therefore, in retrospect, the study proposal
should have boe  adjusWt or changed to other topics. Unfortunately, neither the Govenmnen nor the
Bank took the Initiative to do this. The Govenment was concerned that it would take another very
long time to prepare for the study if it wanted to revise the TOR or change the topics.



47
ANNEX 
PAGE 2 OF 4
2.    Study on thie Role of Government in Promotion Ed Develogment of Non-oil Exjort
2.1   The objective of this study was to review and recommend improvemens in the Government's
institutional support for export development, with specific reference to: clearly stated and
communicated policy priorities for exports, ingrat  and mutually supportive Governme policies,
streamling of Government procedures affctng exporters, and availability of support services.
2.2   Ihe contract was signed on May 15, 1989, and completed in March 1990, by a foreign
consultant of Trade Development Insttute of keland, jinWtly with a local partner, PT Maggala
Epsilon Sigma. The actal cost was US$145,000.
2.3 The consultants made recommendations with regard to: policy priorities and coordination,
streamlining of Government procedures, and availability of support services. As a general
conclusion, the role of Government In development of the private secoMr should consist primarily of
formulation and implemtion of policies conducive to business expansion and by adopting a non-
interventionist role in relation to business activities, subject only to the protection of consumers and
the maintenance of an impart  and equitable business envirmnent. However, according to MOT,
the consultants' recom atins were mainly based on the Goveent's ideas, and not many
creadve and innovative suggestions were made. Similarly, as for the Study on the Role of Trading
ComPanies in Non-oil Export Development, no direct follow-up actions were taken under this study.
Although some recommendations may be considered good, it is difficult to put them into
implementation since many government ministries and agencies have to be involved.
2.4   The implementation of the study went smoothly, although sometmes it was difficult in
meeting with relevant Government officials, and took more time than expected for the consultants to
incorporate the Steering Committee's comments into the final report. The study was carried out in 5
phases, and the local countepart team was closdy involved in each phae. Tbis study also
experienced a very long lead time.
3.    FeasibI14 St  gf  ffie         gf the Nu         Bondd ZQ
3.1 Ihe objectives of the feasibility study included: (i) to supply the Government with a study on
the importance of the utlization of expordng processing zone MP    as one of the operational
strategies to develop non-oil and nonga exports; i1) to analyze the dmand for the PT Kawasan
Berikat Nusantara (KBN) Cakung facilities and to analyze the industry profile tied to it, and based on
such analysis to esdmate when all the land and buildings in Cak would be filly utilized; and (di)
to carry out a pre-feasibilty study, followed by a fasbility study, of the development of EPZ in
Surabaya, Medan and other locadons, if result of the proesibility study was positve.
3.2   The contact was signed on July 21, 1988, and completed on September 15, 1989, by a local
consultmat, Instite for Economic and Soci Rearch, FacuPy of Economics, University of
Indonesia (LPEM FUI), with an actual cost of US$180,000 equivalent. The final report was
prepared only in Baha  Indonesia. A copy of this report was collected by the PCR mission.



48
PAGE 3 OF 4
3.3   ITe coultanets perfma    was considered very good. The study reuts have been used as
reference of Nusanar Bonded Zone development. KBN has now three EPZs: Marruda with an aea
of 410 hectes, Cakung with 173 hectrs, and Tanjung Priok with only 10 hectares.
3.4    A one-op service is provided on these EPZs for approvals and proessing of all permt and
licenses, such as building construction pemi, industri licenses, limited trade pemits, expatriat
work permit and all other activides related to services required by investors.
3.5    Te Cakuh EPZ was fdlly utilized by 1990 with 128 investors particpated. Mme domint
production acdvity is garmen, foilowed by fiure, electronic products and shoes. As of end
1990, total investment was US$93 million, total value of export was US$183 miUion, and total
employment was 32,929.
4.    AcdoaLQdMWdgrMa (for Miistry of Industy)
4.1   Ihe objectives of this progrm included: to assess world trade environment and Indonesin
ndus   capabilities, to Identify and prioritize export opporunies by major sector and specific
product or product goups witb export potential, and to develop policy ro D S  and action
plans to stimlsate the devlopment of export capacity for the products ideified.
4.2   Th program was sted in January 1988, and completed (phases I and II) in December 1989,
by the consultants, SRI ltrational and Pr Sumao. The plannd Phase   work never sttd (the
Mister of MOT did not sig th proposal, for unlear reasons). The acst  cost r phases I and II
was about US$0.54 million.
4.3    During Phs I the constants fist Idenfled 7 target seto  (metals and minerals,
automotive and equipment, chemicals, electronics, forest products, food products, and other consumer
products), and thaen reduced this list to three (vehicles and equipment, chemicals and food products)
based on both global trade enironme  and Indonesian capability. Ihe Phase II was focused on
screening pote  product in oach of these three sectors and preparin ro etion on policy
chages necessay to promote expot of these products.
4.4   The consultants' phase I rport was found too general, probably because the allocaed fiuds
were not enough. The rests of pbas II were satisfactory. The imp  of the program has been
generaly more ind   than dihct, and the consultants' reommendation have served as a good
source of Inspiration for the Governmet officials in decision maling, planning and development of
long-erm srategy for nnoilnexpo promotion.
5.1   There were two infrmation systems established for the Ministry of Industry wuder the EDP I
finncing, aming at providig more and better Information to the Govnment authorities as regari
development of non-oil port



49
.ANNE 5
PAGE 4 OF 4
5.2   The IDIS was started on August 11, 1988 and compled on November 8, 1989, witi a cost
of US$115,000; while the IPOSYS was sre   on October 16, 1990 and compled on January 16,
1992, with a coa of US$389,000. Both assignments were carried out by a local consultant of Pr
Pemuka SWstm In intertec.
5.3   The two Infonnation sysms were designed to be Intrelated. In fact, IPOSYS was a
foblow-up and extension of IMIS, which provides the data needed by IPOSYS. Both systems have
been implemented and managed in an integrated way by MOI since their establishment, and the
origial objectives have been achieved. As a result, MOI's computer and information system has
been further developed and improved. With inputs of MIS (with both sources from both within MOI
and outside), IPOSYS has bee providing data and information In formulation of short-, medium- and
long-term policies for development of new industries and upgrading the existing ones.
5.4   The consulta's performanc was generally good, although te daft report for POYS had
to be revised three times before its finalization, which caused about a thee-month delay. Another
isue during the implemenion was related to the coordination and organiztion - it was ofien
difficult to coordinate and organie the work since many agencies from different ministries and
different geographical locations were involved in the project.
6.    Effcti  oate of Protection S4y
6.1 Ihis study was completed in 1988 and has since been updated a few times. Some technical
notes were isued by Ministry of Industry on this subject. No further information was available for
this study.
7.    BPS Flow of Fuds Std
7.1    No information could be found for thisstudy.



ANNEX6-
PAGE I OF I
INDONESIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 27024ND)
TA CQMIPONENT - STATIJS OF REALLOCATIONS AMX DISBURSMENTS s(US$)
Fi=ndl     Undisbursed
Categoy          Descrii              Original    Reallocation   R(allocatin  Disbmem_        Balane
AIKfo        (03n"l)    (01/16/9)        (08/07/92)    (osrn92)
2     EQUIP Demo Opmtions            900,000      900000        900,000      831,019.21    68,980.79
3(a)    PT ASEI                       400,000      400,000       391,550      391,532.15     8,467.85
3(b)    EQUIP, Studies              1,600,000     1,5W0,000     150,000    1,872,531.16 I(372,531.16)
3(c)    Study of Export Estate        300,000      200,000        181,550     181,529.57    18,470.43
3(d)    Tech. Advisor to ESB          900,000      900,000       900,000      893,877.33     6,122.67
3(e)    TA to Exporters by ESB      2,700,000     4,100,000     3,677,000    3,598,690.37    501,309.63
3(f)    TA to Orapnizations by ESB   700,000       700,000       840,000      743,200.21    (43,200.21)
3(g)    Ebxpnt Training             1,100,000     1,100,000     1,400,000    1,324,776.29    224,776.29)
3(h)    MOI Studies & Prograls      1,800,000     1,600,000     1,400,000    1,315,799.05    284,200.95
4     ESB Operating Cost           1,000,000     1,600,000     1,559,900    1,521,700.57   78,299.43
.     Traiing for Trainers          700,000       500,000       400,000      263,075.13    236,924.87
6     Unllocated                   1,400,000            0             0           0.00          0.00
TOTALS                  13,500,000    13,500,000    13,500,000 j 12,937,731.04    562,268.96
Note: The undisbrsed balance of $562,268.96 was canceled on August 7, 1992.



ANNEX 7
PAGE I OP 1
RDWONESIA
iRORMTr OMPLITION 3WOR
ECPOIT DSVELODAD3N !ROJBC  LOAN 27024ND)
IMPWINTAT10  STATUS OF TA ACTOMMS
TA ACTVITY                              WEMrATION               CONSULTANT             I DATE OF            DATEOF           ACUAL
AGENCY                          _             I_CONTRACr  CONPLETION   COST tUS
Th}it Cradt %mme & Guarmft (am"                     FT AS!               Fust Washington AssocIts             0401/88          llJ30t89           391,633.51
Eno Qalixoty Updt  & I_NMNA tosum                   MOT (Dom                tLA0E5O)3M                                         03131/92          1,578,646A1
0QUIF)-hmI_                                                              Pr Mm Ft ViM Perdm
BQ     DemOOp      a                                MOT (DOFT)           CERLAB                               06/10/90         03/31J92           831,019.21
Fea|lty Study of N_san  Bonded Zone                 MOT (ATMD)           University of Ihones                 07/21/88         09/15)89           181,52957
Study of Role of Tradiqg Conyeahe                   MOT (ATM             bets Plnig ad Analys Center          07/01189          02190             148,924.67
Sudy of Rol ofGovnmet Agence                        MOT (ATRD)           Tag Dvelop. hlsL of kland            05/15/89          03/90             144,960.08
Aclia-ovs  Pogms                                    MmOmm                Stanford Reseuvh Insitute             02/88            12189             S41,74S.40
|}ifeivw Rob of Poection                            MOt                  Uivest of Idoneia                     08/7             12188             199,839.88
_______________________                             MO!                  FT Paa Sisblm Jt Iestec.             0611118B         IIAW689            114,908.51
h1duii Paly Fommution Sysem (MOSYS)                 MO!                  fT FPab Sislim Indl tes.             10116190        011692              388,7S9.9
Stdy for am (Aeny for Industrial IRD undeMOI        110 (wP              Booz-A & H                           cance
BPS  e_aul SatIl hbe ) FMm of Fbaub Study           MOP                  Goeban, Saldu & EBan                                                      70,55S7
Exa S o   aBodM                                     1so                                                        01/38          03/3192
Tcdhl Adviso                                                            Louis BIIC lo.                                                            93,877.33
OPealoo                                                                                                                                        1,521,709.57
Assltimlo, BqoWr                                                                                                                               3,98,690.37
A____s to _xpo_                                _ S_ __t O___      _                                                       _743,20021
IXot Tini    gn                                     Mar                  SERC, do,c.                          @2189            I/15/91          I,S87,6SI.42
r i-           TOTAL                                                                        12,937,731.04



Page I of 6
INDO S IA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EXPORT DEZVLOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2702-XND)
Aloagns Anroved Under Zxort DevloRMsat Poect Io t  2702-h3D}
Nature of                 At Lan AmPlicatiou             tal TProieot Cost  a
"X/              subloan                         Subpoljet                    Total                 3etimated  aatual   Cost
Subprojeat         Disbursed  Principal Itme            (now/                    Assets       Total       Conte      Costs  Overmun
rnuber             (_8)          Produced        e3panlon)  Locatio          (Utp SI) Employees         -  --           Upmillio) -
3W-A-1         6,366,190 llyeod               Expson    xlizantea             60,784         400      20,377   20,317          0
305-1k-2         4Z05,623 L.atbw              Expansi    Central  ava          2,036          90       2,603    2,609          0
33-1^-     3   3.453.076 plywood              Expanin    RaLiamata            37,191          *7250    8706       ,106         0 a
3010--4          636,538 Samn Tiabr           xpansion    Ealianta              ,679         100       2,400    2,475         75
33- L-5          751509 Logging               Expasio      Malu                2,879          90       3,067    3,067          0
3D1-1-6        6,389,"4 4tet                  xpansi    .entral lav          21,659       2,790      16,312   16,67         567
3W-A-?7          799,934 R         pomattm    g            Wet Java                0           0       2,573    2,600        227
lDD-A-8          941,625 Shoes                gm           Wet Java                0           0       3,06      3,069         0
301-1-9          635,121 Rattan Funitur    Du               Wet lava               0           0       2,203    2,200          0
3D3-A-10 0*      869,169 Rattan Furitre   am               Central lava            0           0       3,500    3.o5           0
-A-11  *    1,306,951 Led Ore Smlting _                    West java               0           0       4,026    5,731    1,70
33A-12           600,666 lostex Rubbw    s_pansion    simata                   1,997         109       3,122    4,700    1.578
303-A-14       1.500,560 Ceoent 1ro.essng  gm              s_entra                 0           0       6,334    9,434    1.100
3D3-A-1S         786,64 Chopsticks            NW           central Jaa             0           0       2,200    2,5ss9       359
33- A-16         519,712 Woodorking           Expeaion    West Java              6S52         96       1,069    1,669          0
9--1  *0         220,143 Rattan frnitue   Expansion    5u1i                    1,182          60         650       691        41
s30-3-2          435,979 Rattan  urnitue   Expai           West java           6,971   1,000           1,172    1,555        383
301 3 -4         257,022 Chopstcke            Expaion    aest lava               364           0       1,289    1,289          0
NDD-u-S          327.219 oQazents             Expanslon    West Java           1,461         240       1.286    1.286          0
B30-3-6          469t783 Aute Partse          Zxpasio    Jakarta               5.12F         IS0       1,323    1.323          0
30W-9-7          483,075 Auto Parts           xpanSion    West Java           2,239          150       1,2S3    1,285          0
301-B-S  *       2 249,235 good Moulding     Expanion    Jakarta                259          S0         7S2       752         0
3D0-5-9          329,064 Cattle Foed Proc.  am             Sule_si                 0           0       1,426    1s555        129
DDE-3-11          174,064 loatber                          Cocessng Expansion    Contral Java  0,410  90  14,56    1,258      0
203-3-12         288,000 Dionel Eag"ns        NW           Wet Java                0           0       4,380    4,362          0
SfOhL 3D3 £25-1      30.100.000                                                                                       1OL2330



Page 2 of 6
Wature of                 Aft Loan A     LolatLon     Total Prolegt Cost Ia
rI7/          Bubloas                         subproloot                   Total                 Estlaated  Aatua    cost
Subproleat    Disbursed Principal item               IMAt/                    Assets       Total       Costs    Costs  Overrlu
baber            CUSS           Produced       expansion)  location   (ip uln)  Umploy.os    ----  (ap ml0Lon) -
3-1  -1         3,071,673 eooos e    1 foonss1  bis1on     last Jaga          2,316          122      71971    6,01S         114
um- a-2          7,5,551 Rattan  gtuge   lapealo           Jakurta             1,854         253       2,516     2,651       65
111-1-3 "        709,740 Rattn Vuriture   lupeasle         Snta                1,32          453       2,127    2,137        10
35-1-4          1,626,647 Ftown Shrugp       lupeaa        Bast $"a           S,631          277       2,430    2,569       151
M-I-S            711,T4S5 Net/lrk Proa.    lasias    samtra                   1,86            2        2,115    2,140        25
U1-&-4         6,099,872 Sam Tiaker                        galimantea         14,4"          493      20,096   31,3W      1,210
Mt-A-7            S35,779 Gemate             lups_lon    jakarta              6,206          933       2,706    2,742        34
31- X-I          592,049 Platlo ags          Bp lom    Ceantnal Java          4,007          476       1,525    1,595        70
31- 3-1 e-        215,506 Rattan Carpets     lupauslon    Kalitam             1,003          2s5         505       534       29
312-9-2           349,342 Rattan wurnltuze   umpnal.    s8matra               1,250          655         577       097       20
3a1- 3-3         310,444 Rattan furniture   Expanolan    Jakarta              1,427          510       1,727    1,835       100
32- 3-4 *         343,414 West/Port Proo.      paension    sintra               703           13       1,286    1,350        72
SRM- e-5         351,660 Coffe/Ckassava PMaspesion    Smatra                  1,680           47       1,362      1392       30
31 1-E6          323,914 Rattan VuOnlturM   lapenalon    Jakarta                 300          36       1,400    1,517        3t
8RX-Z-7 9,       243,915 wood Moulding       lupanslon   Isumtra                335           58       1,169    1,261        92
35-3-6           422,974 Chetoklpe                         east Java           1,403         356       1,30S    1,367        62
312-3-9 9*        395,341 Coconut pulp        N            Sumatra             S,011           0       4,626    5,052        426
rn-A-1            506,329 Rattan lunLturm   Zapansc        lulavL                961         264       1,367    1,127         0
3M- a-2          685,667 !..tLi        lz      paS1n    W"st Java              4,620         470       1,767    1,767         0
35-1-3  *9        679,294 Rattan fCULtue   lenlon          West Java          2,074          500       3,634    3,634         0
I- 3-1           206,96  Ratta  nugnlture   new            Sumatra                3          352    6a             660        0
35-3-2           247,460 Coffee Proafesig  mm              Sumatra              700           59         674       656        0
35t-3-3          259,41 Rattan Carpets    lapanslon    lallmantaM             1,367          192       1,194    1,252       S5
35- B-4          370,566 Shoes                      ]OUe    wet J8a           5,660        1,250         970    1,076       106
35->-S           139,266 faf  1f.             olaa n       sumtra             1,623          150         75       78s         0
35-3I-6          332,72S tpLoca Plous        RupneLca    Suumata                300           95       4,206    4,602       394
you   Ml   3. f0f000                                                                                       15.S6



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
Finanoina  lActuall /a                   subloan Terms
VW                               Other                              Period       Debt/  Completion            Arrears /d
subprojeot   squity          IRDa      Loans    Total   Interest lnel/grace  Equity   Delay /c  Itrsoapel  zatereot
Number          -----------  tp milllon) -----  Rate /b    (Months)  (tiDma)  (months)                         (>3 months 
DD-A-i           7,214    11,467      1.C96     20,377        18.0            IDS      1.24             2          320          0
DoE A-2          I,'ll        671       629       2,606       18.0             s6      1*30              1           a          0
DD- A-3          3,051     5,455          0       6,706       16.0             54      1.48             3          160          0
DDE A-4            915     1,107        453       2475        16.0             48      0.070            0                       0
DE -A-$          1,067     1,287        743       3.067       23.0             28      0.92              1           0          0
soE-A-6          5,979    10,906          0      16,679       19.5             so      1.16             3            0          0
DDE- A-7 0*      1,171     1,379        250      2,600        19.5             35      3.S5             3            0          0
DDE- A-S         1,312     1,757          0       3,069       21.0             60      0.46             a          soo          0
JDD-A-9            940     1,246          6       2,200       19.5             42      0.26             0          630          0
DDEA-b 0*    1,247         1,577        676      3,500        21.0             36      0.32             2            0          0
D-Ai 0-11        3,203     2,414        114      S,731        19.5             60      0.44             2            0          0
IlDE-A-l2        3,099     1,465        136      4,700        21.0             60      1.50            12          200          0
BDV A-14         4,034     2,760      2,640      9,434        21.0             72      0.39             2           75          0
DE- A-IS           999     1,441        llD       2,159       20.5             54      1.70             0          700          0
IWI- A-16          911       958          0       1,669       21.0             23      1.20             1            0          0
DE--   *0          291        400         0         691       20.0             24      0.32             4            0          0
BDDE- 3-2          604        729        22       1,555       10.0             66      1.42             0            0          0
NO- 3-4            709        432        66       1,269       19.1             60      0.21             0            0          0
DDE- -S            460        568       256       1,266       1.5S             42      1.70             2            0          0
JOEI -1-6          500        600        23       1,323       23.0             40      1.30             0            a          0
DER--7             465        620         0       1,285       23.0             46      1.40             1            0          0
DES- 1    0-0-     300        4S2         0         752       19.5             40      1.30             4            0          0
3D3-3-9            9SS        600         0      1,555        21.0             40      0.30             1          412          0
lDDE --11          940        310         0       1,258       19.5             46      1.29             2            0          0
DDE- -12         3,031        531         0      4,362        21.0             40      0.46             1            0          0
TMM. 1 3   231 £25       2   !L.21i704      133    195in330



A lllIS   a
Page 4 of 6
fingaMima tAotmal la                   subleam ferap
312/                           Other                             Perlod       DObt  Comltlon             Ar as      d_
subproject   sqsity    IUD          Leans    Total   Iaterest iaol/graeo  Uqtty   Delay /a   ftlastl  Jatert
number         ---------   (RM  dlllonJ ----  Rate fb   (Hoath.)   (tine)   (months)                        ) mouths)
-A-i o-         2,94    5,047         114      o,05         16.0            o       .3s             3                 * 123
33- A-2           971     1,324       35       2,451       16.0            72      0."             0            0         0
M-A-3             754    I1,10        203      2,137        18.0           96      0.94            0         * 21       107
RT- A-4            "      1,444       20       2,509        19.0           64      1.64             0           0         0
3I3-&-S           765    1,103        12      2.140       21.6            90      2.45             3       * 145         1
31-a-  S6       0245    10,40       2,446     21,304        1.0            S0      0.66             1           0         0
31-Ak-7           962       0I9       669      2,742       20.4           4S       0.71            0            0         0
33-h-             S90    1,005          0      159S        20.4            72      2.10             0           0         0
3m- 1*-I          14"       347         3        S34        17.0           42      1.49             3       *3SO       e47
=11-9-2           284       571        42        697        18.0           72      0.93             3           0         0
3X- I3-3         1"020       s0        307       1,035       21.0           49      0.99             1           0         0
3t3-  -4          650       546       132      1,350       21.6            72      0.50             3       e177    03 "
Mt-Ws             0o?       420       "S       1,392        19.5           60      1.49             1           0         0
I3- 3-4           492       54S       260      1,517        19.5           54      0.6              1           0         0
1w- -7      R     s51       410       350      1,261       2a.4      6      0      2.10             a      .*11       * ll3o                         $
331-3-0          S         754        94      1,387       20.4            40      1.30             0           0         0                          us
33~.3-9 *0  1,602,   2.400        642,    5,052,       21.5            d 46    1.65             1           0    * 163
.IL 3an flu?    2250    za025    1.13             ILl47i
2- A-1            276       851         0      1,127       21.0            46      1.44             7           0         0
332- a1-          547    1,200          0      1,76?       21.0            48      0.17            10           0         a
32- A-3  *      1,760     1,496       350      3,634       21.0            72      2.01            12           0         0
35-J-1            334       334         0        6"8        16.0           46        Il             4           0         0
3-2-3-2           214       440         0        456        16.0           46        VA             1       0o6           0
32- W3-           594       431       227      1.252       21.0            30      0.20             a           0         0
13- 3-4           "S6       630         0      1,074       21.0            48      1.04           ML            0         0
32- 3-5           275       243       267        75        20.0            30      0.33             1           0         0
352lt-3-4       2,102    2,50           0      4,60 2      20.s5                   1.9             1L           0         0
w     mm  9i 6.S90    I it          SR      lha47



Page 5 of 6
Total               total
AnnuL Salem        anna  Pro,f t    mar. In Anual               Uxport as 0 of                             Coot of
1PIS       Bfor e       or    Attr   Dogo   atetr    Produation /D         2.j  it Product14n         incroas  La         Job   I z- 1x-
Subprojeot    Proj*.  Proj./e   Proj.  Proj./o apeoted  Actual   Btfor                  After Proj. -   no. of Jo.7b    Gmerated Ateo  Poet
somber          (Up milII)           (Rp Mllon)         (Up alLiau)   Project  3sp'd   Actual  Exp'd   Actual  (Sp nlx.) 1lg  M/f
335-A-I       10.91      61.231    5.6456    S0o3      70.143     6.432        100      100       9e       400       400        50.9    23    iA
336-A-a        6,966      9,313        94       305    10,245      9,732       100      100        of     l1         90       29.0      20     27
a3-A-3        15.719    39.411        967    2*,98    41.404    36.921          to      100        o6      2S0       50         364.8    23     24
om-A-4         St 122    11.207      (1"      053    11,421      11372       100      100        99      100       100       24.0      21    gm
33-a-s        a2230       3,06    1S130    1.049       S,436      2,49        65        00        90       so        90        34.1    25      oh
oo-A6         31.DS4$95e    3S.564    4S2    3 390    39.957    40.772          56       75        36   7 00        2790         6.0    26    IA
3-A-7**            0    0               0        0          0          0         0        0         0      465       423         6.5    40      I
336-a-0            0      4,993         0      472      4.419      4.400        0        s0        52      520       502         6.1    20      26
SV6-A-9            a        221         0      (193     2,010        211         0      100        40      257       246         8.9    25      2a
336-A-10 *         0      6.S21         0    1,322 6a651           slos          0      100        St      400       410         0.S    S4    Ia
233-A-la *         0      2.430         0      (132     2.63      2,280         0       90        39      125       136        42.1     32     A
336-ia-l        7725    10,116        lag     461       2.400     14,700        70      100        65       U5s      SOo        43.1    23      23
s-a-14             0    14.065          0    1,459     11.031      6,960         0        s        97      500       420       22.S    26    IA
gm6-&-IS           0      1.227         0      261        390        673        0       100        73      250       262         9.0    Zs    VA    in
336-A-16        1061      2,436        of      009      4.000      3,900        79       05        76      108        96        19.5    466    oa    c
EDX- 3-1 ^     2,771    4*051         187       114     5,336      3,040       100      100        41      a"o       260         2.7    35    IA
336- -2        4,50      22.306        92      062    21.120    19,920         100      100        54    1,000      1000         1.6    21    VA
3D8- 3-4           0      2705          0      s11      2.041      2,443        0       100        01      134       124        10.4     64     gA
oa- 3-S        4.90      10,101        76       178e   10700      10.660       100      100       95       100       240         S.4    21    oa
ED- 3-6        s,277      7.632         S       191     0,014      7,413       60        05        71       sO      Ise         .0    26    IA
33-3-?         1,461      3,954       100      3S5      4.151      3.632        0        40        44       So       1SO         0.6     29     VA
336-3-0  *       271      2.475         7      (137     2.S25      2.076       40        60        4s       S0        S0         5.0    22    MA
e03-3-0            0        734         0       (IS       950        326        0       100        89      155       10          9.8    21      VA
336- -1I        500       9.313       113       301    10.245      9.732       100      100        96      20         90        14.0    24      Ea
336- 3-12          0    11.943          0      902     12.540    11,160         0        6S        41      13s       126        34.6    32    IA
90631. rn  125i  _3~ff"   282.21Q       L12i   24AL1   296.hhL   an2Jis                     8i1i    Lii2                         Ait



Page 6 of 6
.                                                                                                                             *.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A4Mua  Sal"         Annual Profgits  Zor. La ANuVa                 Export as S of                               Cost of
PU,        BefoeP Attr   Before   Ater                lrAtjc  IA               toa  Prduction              Increas  In          Job       U-         u -
SUbprojeet    Proj.  PoJ / I          Poj.  Proj.I  Expee    Actua                eore - After Poj.              U E. at atgs   Geneated Anto   Pet
lmber            (R ULUp    C a Rl )  (Up aMlon)           (Up million)   Project    zpld   Actual   Sxp'4   Actual  (Up ads.) 13/  73/
333-A-i *0    17.220      37.369        793    t1.57      22.419    20,149         42                   O 60    378       400        20.2      SO     EL
3a-&-2          3,413      6.531        290       544      1122       29" 910                55        60        97       100        26.5      35      la
331-&-3 e       1,965      3#572        132       326      1.088       , 587       31       s00        s6        47        65         33.9     20      a&
33-A-4         11,632     23,146        371       6Od      2,133      7#314        46        03        64       223       225         11.5     23     Ea
333-A-s *-      1.436      2.207        162       245        930        051         5        e5        45        31        35        61.1      26     oh
33-a-6          2.213     3S714         16"       220      1,454      1,501        71        60        62       362       275         77.8     26     as
MI-A-7         133525     19, 716    3043       1.540      l3,55      6,191        31        65        60    1,000       1060         2*6      63    la
230-A-8         2,953      5,2S5       222        369        647      2 332        Ss        es        90       215       225          7.1     24    tL
aR-3-I *-       2,199      2,95?        152       196      1,902        756        43        60        SO        65        iS          7.t1    3O     E
31-3-2          1.309      2,546         49        94      1.1 4      125Q        S5        75        77        20        27        33.2      27      am
3a3-3-3           768      1,042         99       137        254        394        32        es        85        90        90        20.4      3o     EL
B3-,-4 *-           6         7SO       19        230         72        164        40        as        53        37        37        34.7      20     VA
333-3-3         1t75s      2#415              36             30S       657        61        70        t0        43        45        30.       55     EL
333-3-            842      1o502         27        40        495        660         0        95        35       414       425          3.6     S5    EL
833-3-7 *-        501         74          S        it        S79        203         0        t0         4        56        63        20.0      43     EL
3Z- V-6         2,22       3642         166       279        S 16       1410        a        90       867       127       135         10.3     SO     eL a
8t--9 **            0      2,989          0        69      6,645     2a9n           0        e5        53       5$3       340         14.9     47     EL
fOcAL 33 t 178    jfl8fj71   me, 1          14R    6I.II   4lJ10         51.21                                    haUl 1L 622             1£.
33-&-a1          2904      4.007         41        34       3026       3026       100       100       100       340       340          3.3   29.0     E
*3-A-2          5,442     2931         299    2,130         9416      14935        30        45        50       600        0OO        2.5   25.0      67
o3s-a-3  *       3000       ,492        140       3*0       5492       5492       100       100       100       100       100        36.3   26.0       a
ml- 3-1             0        356          0        oh         ea         UK        NA        oh         fL      352       S"6          1.7   41.0     S&
3SS- -2             0     10493           0       495       25a0       3000         0        so        30        56        St         11.1   46.0    Ol
33- 3-3          3442      3,410       347        (65       1200       900        100       100       100       1SO       IS0         8.3   40.0      E
33- 3-4         21782     26,002       550        95       16949      24740       100       100       100    1,250        750          1.4   33.0      1,
35-3--5          2576      3,352        147       336       5"1         561        70       100        70       15        150          5 .2   44.0    46
333.3-6 IW                 3.634         ELs (1S3           5500       3634         0        50         0        95        S?        52.0   24.0      oh
5a                 I          12         121        1422. 10                    .                                 L         1              L
Ia  total tot let oovt osalud    1or9anoat working capital.
lb  Istoeat rato at the tla  of subloes  approal by  M.
lo  Start og eamm.eial, predutina et the prOoot.
Id  Acres" are met teest avaLlabl, (Ostober, Uove.br or beWbo  192).
lo  Liter pro d.ot, based on lot year og t11 produles (meet reset wer  18 full preduetiom not avaaleble).
/8  iSa u wU11al rat. ot retua.
El * not available
*  portie  .  arrears  a  12 nothe or  or.
* Cleeiod leoo" (dobtul. a"d bad loam)



ANNE 9
Page 1 of 15
INDONESIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2979-IND)
Subloans Ak id  UndWr Second Xxport l.lopM_Mt Prolect LoZn 2979-Zi
mature of                  &t     an ongatl              Total -ro1eat Coa  /a
Pil/               bbloa                             b ojeat                     total                  Estimted  actual   Cost
Subproject          Disbursd  Princpal Items              (am/                       Assets       Total        Cost       Costs  overrun
Number              (US$)           Prodeood                       Location   (Ip aSa)   mployees            ---        (p millin) -
. 3_ -a1       10,001,413 sate*s 1o               pem  Ceft    ental jawa        45,27a        3,0 09      4073   41,625            0
WA-2            5.942.125 Was atsp anslee    Wet Saa                             20,053          200       17,02     17,01?         0
III-3-1           232#9" Sloe  psees_lag  mm                  smtv0                          0              1,094     1.220       126
3-6-3B-2 *47,211 Pounts                         amv           Wst  sia                00                    2O2 57    2,257         0
g1-34 0         1.39*0572 £ate  gleoes          ae       _    wt  sia                 0            0        32991     3,991         0
_6-3-             539r595 Olsel Zgs             Nv            West asn                0            0        4,380     4,.62         0
_6-9-7          1,022921 Smhoes                 N_v           West Uar                0            0        32491    32491          0
I_6- 3-0        1,0320654 Shoes                 mm            Wet oJw                 0                     40S60     4,560         0
3031-39 ml        2701  Loathe                  Rspeasion    central Java         0,410           90        1.S3 1.250              0
3-3-10 0        1#511.567 Rubber gloves         am            mt Jav                  0            0        5,553     6,323         0
336 5-11        1.063.459 too"                  Rupoen   , kNluho                 9,934           90        3,405     3.492         0
1-3l-12    e   359,491 Ratten                   am            West Jaa                0            0        1,43      1,4320         a
6-38-12         1,1352.905 Iattan               3ev           vast Jrn                0            0        4,197     4,1S3         0
803-3-14        1409,870 Shoes                  mm            Vast JUr                0            0        4,013    4,613           0
336-3-15          702.069 Clgarotta ppe         Uspasolee    O matra              1,95           134        25670     2,670         2
303I 3-16         20S,O54 ftoxes  Sbrip         mm            Sintra                  0            a          919       946        27
3365-3-17         345,740 Nshes                Rupansole      West Jawa             275           42        1,100     1#1,0         0
33I-3-18 *0    1,047,463 Sports shoes           Us0           West JU                 0            0        2 3,77   32325          0
16-3-19         1,494,376 Cash"  auto           Nv            Rest Java               0            0        0,121     0.187        66
36-320-21       1,434.252 azimonts              Zapansion    Best Jasa            3,536          630        9,023    9,125         42
3369-3-22       1,090,714 good sb_ots           mm            Wet Java                0            0        32963     3,023         0
335D-523 0e       743.035 19gs 0ew IImtre                                             0            0        4,329     4,420        99
333 1-24          950,221 Camva  Shoe          NM             Wast Java               0            0        4,025     4,008         0
336-3B-26       1,099.174 Paddlng/Quilting   am               West Java               0            0        3,902     3,254         0
33-39-27        1,2732701  Prdb/Pran Tood       spanolon    Sumtra                1,215           90        4,755     4,7S6         0
33--20 *0         099Q410 Garnento             Daian          West Java           1,196           75        3,624     4,342       716
III- 3-29         399,051 frniture              lapanolon    Zest Java            4,610          140        2,095     2,095         0
306- 3-30       1,474,176 Corrugated Do        Ne             West Java               0            0       21,607   21,607          0
121AL     f2eS        aLl746i0.1O



A=9
Page 2 of 15
3etmze Of                 At zomr 1mutrnbl  M .       fetal Pw.ia  Cst" /a
TVK/  ubloaa                       ~~~~~~~SOwcojeat              ftal                  Istimatod  aatue        Cost
Subpzoj.ot         DS.auad la pal  tma    (awol                                 Assets       total       Can".    C..t.  Omea
Urbsm              pW)             4odod         .pila          o tos (no MU)   -oar"(no ailhio) -
332-A-I        5.6147  fatie                 3euIs l"e  mol  coe"ta Sam      22,032         444      22,12461  27,299    5,05)
1012-81-i      1.000,412 OWN Wiabew          3.pee.    uMa                   35.433         S 30     .3,00   3S1l0            0
un2-2-a         6404  Sameo,u    mm ti    Sm qesae    somtge                  2,63          370       4,4631   5.296        915
302-31-3         561.230Bu STin ambe         Sapeeeiaemi   samtzs            2S5WS          2s5       2.4911   2.9)0         0
302-3-4        10003.502 Settee tezaitez.   am             Set Sew            1.629         340       3,7191   3,I10          0
32-S9-5        1.014.075 lapLoae userw      3fea.Lm    smtyem             - -   icp1it with 3-4nadr La. 37102-263  --
30010-15         514.200 Batten VmeAttm   Oms             5.50 Savea          S599          4431      2,023    2.3 
30-5-        1,424,262 1am-i OeaeSes       amosAm       Sakert             174j           26)1      4,3041   4.4         442
oS M: e~~~~~~s                2"         1,45     USs          toa
Wr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13)__: a " __                                                                461 ) 
Eu-s-S1          492,S36 Veodtia-              m           Sian               9 24          20 J5                ,55 
=IDw X,its$5| iznL                                                 Jutet1,861 ao2n X" 
a39103-A-I           4S9,007 Cbqstieft           Vepecs       sect Se            3.261       1.917       2J,94    3.224        200
319133-&-2 *-       1.335517 Settee lsLteg    Om               Sct Sae                   _                4.45    4,05           0
V3)230-A-3 *         506.394 Chapetiatc          am            Set ave           -           -            3,063    4,917    1,154
UPPIODO-A-4 e0     2,922,994 1V_ucilome  1r4 am                Sect Sw-                      -            9,4_1    10.*47    1,174
DM2330-A-s           011.300  oumad1    waitr a eet Sews                         -           -           14,940   16.372    1,432                               Un
5831330-5-1          263,259 OVemcstclcmatmea  Eapa             Dect Save         1,326         442       1,796    2,436        646                             t
039133-5-3           143,400  _hepetia           am            Se"t Save         -           -              63)       6o0        23
53D-A-i          704,939 all semi            mm            Set sa"              250           0       2.20      2.11          0
800-2 -,010,944 Sebber Obes                  am            Vet Jse            1#069           0       5,345    4,973          0
333-A-S          992,947 Spmt Sies           am             Mtv                 250 IO                 701    4,704          0
5- 1-i           418,052 51.cbeez            SapeleX m     s_ta               2,250          48       1,624    1,419          0
35D-5-2          467,774 lans    es Obrm                   $1_ tw             1.450     1     0       1,0l66    1.es          a
55-- *e          467,215 ltses Ohriop,    sepsele    Nast Java                1,219         299       1.1)2    1,277        145
_3-54            353.609   1         o  eae ShrImp  Depse.   Sekeata          2*463          s0       1,295    1,192         0
9330-5-9         493,977 1ub|_bom            am             st Sawe             275           0       2,514    2*,42   1 12
_-    *-         103,405 Stn                               Wect Jave            733         200         377       437        a0
333-5-7          377,535 Seei_agjed led. ame-CAM    cetrel saew               1,02e           0       1,470      1410        0
33- 15   '       465,365 9l2ti  feo          am           Set Save           155e            0       3,036    2,564         0
3333-10          459,4d4 ebCpetla  Imetq am               vest Ivw.             400         300       1,700    1,697         0
333-5-12 *       403,496 uletes   S   p      am           Vest JSew           1.996           0       3,350    3,167         0
333-5-13         475,150 Wed ldmtl           am           JAbWt               1*360           0       3,976    5,0S2    1.104
331-5-15         475.30# Neldiag ledct y  Stzp is"    Bect Save               3,914         266       2,4)6    2.419         0
053-5-14         469,053 spetbs gee          now           st Jave              323           0       2,243    2,13          0
15-35 -10        487.29) Vumitie             am           vest gave           3,176           0       4,921    4,576         0
353-3-19         327,169 Proem XSrimp        agpoeie       Some"i             1*147         376       1,273    2O,9          0
_33 3-20         471,934 Plastic sag         Sqimaie       vast save          1,4e7         600       3,46    3,o146         0
3D-59-21         449.653 Fwles                am1           B ne *eegge       1.19s           0       2,215    2,137         0
333-n-22 *   444z442 NoeDi  lov"    am                aelct Save           42i           0        2 736    2.364 
33--23           474,237 SeMeet Indeetqy   NM              Jakarta              496           0       3,429    3,54 
3383-54 C         157,10  Stte  lmAtnees  me               sect Jave            6"            0       1,557    1,066         0
33-59-25         217,707  anitugee           mm      t     Wt Jave              653           0       2,72)    2,344          0
2U                         7 1412



An  9
Page 3 of 15
lature o8                At oan aumlLeation          total proleat Cost /a
111/            1Suboaa                         Subprojeat                   total                EstLsated  Actual   Cost
Subprojeat         Disbursed  PtrcLpal items    (now/                           Assets      total       Costs    Co.ts over0       n
lumber             (US$)         produced       expaLson)  LocatLon   (Rp sla) Umployees    ---  -  (:IP   llion) -
M1                    3,737,555 tegtiles           Epaio         West Java         10,322                  12,113   12,202        89
Mm  UWAG-A-2            031,857  M       r 5brjp   NM            Eat Jva           -_                      10,010    9,446 O
mm UISM-A-3           1,510#324  uar"ia            mem            aI L             _                       17,500   23,000    5,500
mam EUIXM-4           1,672,324  extilesW NM                     "Mt Java                                  " _  20,a44   IS,02     0
3mm3 KIAL-3l            497,534 textile fabrica   Expansion    *ast Java           20,120         375      13,872   13,072         0
aaWx monuY3-a-2         483,484 Berm.              Epa4siuon    Jakarta             5,880         220       3,105    3,105         0
3BAEX EnZyk-S-2         490,390 Esogesen Lamps     Expanson    East Java           1861          160       1.864 1166             4
MMAUlg 3 -3-4 *0        400,125 Rattan FurnLtures  Now           West Java        l- ,581    1,600                               219
mAUI MMA-6-5 *0         356.626 VeodLrk Products  Expansion    Best Java              410          70       2,273   1399          0
2ML mm" t9           L9!222)1I                                                                                      £4,2
iu3Qm- a   *e         831,394 leather Gamoete   EXpansin    Enst Java             3,009         105        3,989    6,623    2,034
ANZM-A-2            1,044,006 Rattan ftunats   mm              zest Java          4,29            0        s590    6,497        50a
DaHM=-3A-3          1.172.972 Shoes               Epansion    Cntral Jaa          4,575       1,175        3,500    3,740       248
3U1   -A-4  o       5,020,031  ippers             Expani       vest Java          7,343         300      34,615   23,722          0
D3N33K- 3-1 e-        372,263 Rattan Frnltur    NM             west Java            684           0        1,247    2,078       831
R -3 *0      309,713 Rattan Furnitur    am            mest Java            547           0       3,120    2,699         0
38331U- -4            432,D07 Gaent prod.        1M             Wt                a l 2,91       42        3,265    406,    1.141
3M1N-3-5              220,26  Stuffe  fe          low     0     est Java          3,082           0        2,044    3,118    107
MAmSN- 0-6            $ 515,648 Fm SbeetJs        a               t Java          2,130           e        2.13    5,222    2.409
RI- A-I e      2,603,550 telescopl  antenna Espansion    Jakarta            12,570       1,891       6,789    7,2O0        411
SRI- A-2       1027,944 Coconut oil        Wam           Sul1ensi           2,534           0       9,031    9,306        27s
SRI- 3.1         219,952 Ratten Furnitur    am            Jakarta              427           0         948       960        12
331-3-2          408,816 Gawnts              Expansion    central Java       2,094         261        1,403    1,433        30
51- 3-3          208,711 armenta             Expansion    Jakarta            2,445         761         650       709        59
BRX- 3-4         142,789 Cash.. Nate         Expanion    Dali                2,155         239         599       623        23
E2I- B-5 e       911,365 Fog Legs            Expoion    Sumatra              1,683          28       2,8a9    2,950        129
NR1- 3-6 *°      59,5S62 ?apiLoa             Expeason    suamtra             4.940         186       2,087    2,129         42
31-3B-7 0*       462,423 Garzmnts            Expansion    Jakarta           11,703         9S3       2,196    2,255         S9
3R1-3-8 *0       319,906 Blk. pepper/coffe  EXpansion    BMatra              4,650          23       1,342    1,360         26
131-3-9          937,584 Rattan FurnLture   EpWansion   Rest Java            7,524         663       2,614    2,779        165
331- -10 e       697,997 Houldinglwecduark  Expanion    Central Jav          4,189         206       2.136    2,227         91
131- -11         989,042 Cattlefesd          EXpanslon    eot Java           3,575         314       4,274    4,372         90
RI- 3-12 *       3806043  aShneory           Expansion    sum_tra            1,175          66       1,410    1,426         16
331- -13         939,117 Coconut pulp        Expanslon    sumtra         -_       (split with B-9 under La. 2702-INS  -
EQ5- E-14        781,237 sport shoes         Expanlon    ERst Java           7,019         175       1,837    2,094        257
BRI- B-15        540,573 PurnLture           Expeasn    sumatra              3,851         200       1,305    1,467        162
aRt- -16         276,801 Garments            Expansion     aLi               1,6S5         141       1,417    1,459         42
BRr-3-17         352,711 Sport Shoes         Expansion    Est Java           7,105         S21         986    1,025         39



AEKELI
Page 4 of 15
mature of                 At Loan AnUcation            Total Proleat Cost /a
l/                Sublon                         Subproject                    Total                  Zstimted  Actual   Cost
Subproj.et          Disbursed  Prinaipal itae            (now/                    Assets       Total        Costs      Cost   Oerru
Number              1US)          Produaod        expasion)  Location   (Rp M ) Eumployee s                          (Rp milion) -
mx-mu-Is        1,414,501 shos                Nev           Jakarta             6,304            a       6,304    8,567        263
3R1-  -19         993,436 Garments            Uxpansios    Jakarta              6,S6S         437        5,140     5,206        49
M1l- -20        1,165,264 Furniture           Ipsion    sumatra                 4,270         39         3,6S0     4,034       164
IR1- -21 0a       940,859 Leather Shoe        Impaslsn    mast Java            10,672         200        5,167    5,417        350
BRI- -22 00       646,380 Gament              takeover      Jakarta             1,561         250        3,453    3,647        194
3RX- -23          298,436 Chldrn's war         mpanlon    Jakarta              2,730          145       1,626     1,704        ao
m3- 3-24 *0       152,281 Rattan Frniture   Iepanslen    sumatra                1,280          94          646       692        44
33-25 -2          S42,401 Gloves              Impesion    Central Jwav            33           10        2,207    2,296         69
33- 3-26          640,109 aaemnto             Impoasion    Jakarta              9,599         374        4,157     4,202        45
an-3-27 0*        491,362 Sboes               1V            Bast Java           1,063           0        2,467     2,567       100
3-3 e--2e         665,044 Bollet              NM       u_ mtra                  1,377           0        3,295    3,334         39
33-1 -29        1,427,977 Woodtok             Imasson    Bast Java             S116          500        5,076     5,158        *0
33Z-3-30          351,369 Leatheat shoes      Ixpanson    West Java             1,S94          a6        1,737     1,073       136
53-3-31           399,356 Charcoal UIquoet   U1asslos    Jakarta                  350          25        1,314    1,326         14
35-3-32           2s6,643 Rattan Purniture  11e             Jakarta               156            a       1,073     1,1S6        a5
13-3-33           622,516 sport  hoes         3ev            bast Java            447            0       4,256     4,344         0
3R32-334        1,398,567 sport Shoes         NM            Jakgrta             3,272            0       9,991    10,596       607
33-3-35           535.339  uel/Aldlg Nozs  nov              mast Java           2,500           0        2,013    2,122        109
33-39-36          790,666 Corugated Ussos   Imolon    Jakarta                   2,355          51        4,599     4,793       164
5R2- a-37       1,36S.659 Noulding             mpasoion    last Java            4,441         130        5,461     5,7S3        93
3ml- -36          339,975 Rattan furniture    xansnlon    Jakarta                 657          73        1,653     1,764       111
332-3-3  0*       336,992 motels              Ipassion    mali                  1,402         10         1,586     1,658        l2
33Z-3-40          290,522 Leather Shoe o      xpassion    fest Java             5,216          es          935     1,000        65
M     MUA4L2i        293241. ltO                                                                                       13429
DVeCI-a-l           S70,246 Wooden Toys         mev           West Java               0           0        1,S50     2,230       360
*WCZ- A-2         2,057,351 Bleotro Capacitors  Me            QWet Java               0           0        6,47S    6,737        262
PWCt - B-3        1,134,367 Gabrmnts            Uev           West Java               0           0        3,609     4,16S       376
VWC2-A-4          1,992,276 Woadvorking          ev            ast Java               a           0        S,472     9,403    3,931
903Cz-a-s         1,667,719 Cbarcoal biguetts am              Best Java               0           0        4,765    4,605         40
PW5CZ- -7 00        668.199 Uattan Furniture   3ev            West Java               0           0        2,872     2,947        75
P9CR-A-$            71n6,624 Rattan Furniture   aev           asat Jva                0           0        2,655     2,636       l16
PD1Cx- A-9          687,236 Battery sop_./gla  RIpansion    leat Java             3,327         127        1,527     1,636       111
101C2-A-iO *0       663,363 Rattan Carpets      NeM           Kalimtan                0           0        2,700     2,504         0
PSmC- A-ll          676,869 Cattle Fed          ae            Bast Java               0           0        2a,16     as28        522
DFCZ -A-12          952,939 Rattan furniture   new            last Java               0           0        3,036     3,162       146
33CX- A-13        3,611,966 Metal works         Ixpassion    as"t Java           30,330         609       10,247    15,935    S,68
VDPeD-I-i           27,639 motel                Impansion    Sulaesil               606           S1       1,264    1,330         46



Page 5 of 15
NatUr  of               At Loatn  wlication    total ProI ect cost /a
PU,/            Subloan                       Subprojeat                  Total                Zst todtd Actual   Cost
subproject        Disbursed Principal items    (now/                         Assets      Total       goats    Costs  Overru
Number            (08$)         Produced       expanision)toaation   (Ip ml) Employee.    -----  (ip mllion) -
PDCX- -2    a     284,965 Notel              MMOeasie    Salavee              866          60       1,200    1 ,075       0
PDQC--3           44S,883 Shoe               new          wst Java               0          0       1,776    2,140      364
D   -"4            954,520 Iotel               W          Ralu                  0           0       4,255    7,100    2,94S
PCI- "  *e        453,302 Uood(NOld/Doard)  NM            BEt Java               0          0       1,502    2,865    1,363
PS-1-6            497,774 sbhs                            I West Java            0          0       4,604    3,850        0
PDI-D-7 **        591,807 81bo               NW           Wet Java               0          0       4,983    6,045    1,062
OPCZ-D-e          69,*012 klaryl  goodo       fpauaica   West Java           5,773         60       1,465    3,462    1,97
NDPCZ-3-110       33437? Oa8.o               e           let Ja                 0          0       2,794    2,874        80
C-B-ll *            55,097 Agro  o'gam                     anst Java            0           0       1,32S    1,405       s0
MCI-D-12          323,361 Rattan Furite                   Remso Et Java      3,974        609       1,200   1,646       446
TOAL PDOC  1231    Z l20.001i702 i2.
DmmK DuTA- a-I e       774,780 Pnaqpfle proc'q   gm           West Java              0          0      19,204   26,102    6,808    c
DAK VA- A-2          1,700,063 Spoons and Forks   Ue          East Java              0          0       6,270    6,444       174 b
DM  DUA- A-3         2,926,252 Sport Shoes       now          Wst Java               0          0       9,660   13,562    3,662
B1aK WSU-D-1 *e        473,274 Latex glove.      NM            umatra                0          0       2,660    1,293         0
DK VM-f3 **            100,363 ReWs turpetL.  Mm              Smkatra                0           0      2,215    1,796         0
DaNK PUA- B-4          386,172 Sport boeee        Ezpusioa   Bast Java           5,715        400       1,690    1,763        73
DaNK DOSA- 3-  $* 512,510 Cattlaefed              UN         s8matra                       0            1,970    1,997        27
DMaK DUa- D-7          453,797  4otel             aem        Wvst Java               0           0      3,665    5,21    1,43§
amS mm III           1327.2li 



Page 6 of 15
Finoanina  factual.  /a                Subloan Terms
1i2/                              Other                            Period       Dabt/  Completion          Arrears /d
Subprojoat        Equity   Zs3"        Loans    fotal   xaterest incl/grac. EquLty   Delay lc   idacipal   nterest
number            ------- (Rp million)               R- ate /b   (Months)  (times)   (months)                >3 months)
3- Ar-i        14.569   1.,360           6as1.2            29.5            a       1.16             3           0         0
3t5 &-2         5.959   11.007         51     17.017       19.S            60      1.36             a           0         0
m13-1S-i          67        416       144      1.230       21.0            24    0o.3               3           0         0
335-3-2 *'      1.157       064       216      2.257       21.0            54      0.34             0           0         0
3D33-4        1.455    2,536            0      3.991       21.0            54      0.48             1           0         0
335-3-6         3.263   1*000          79      4,362       21.0            46      0.41             0           0         0
335-3-7         1.620    1,071          0      3,491       21.0            42      0.34             1         737         a
335-3-6         2,460    1,913        167      4.560       21.0            52      0.26             0           0         0
353-3-9           762       496         0      1e25s       19.5           4G       2.50             0           0         0
35-31-10        2,673    2e764         66      64323       20.5            46      0.36            11           0         0
335-3-11        1,362    1.904        226      3.492       19.5            36      2.09             3           0         0
335-3-12 *        526       644       246      1.436       20.5            40      0.35             3           0         0
35-3-13         1.667    2,146        120      4.153       20.5            60      0.40             1         320         0
335-3-14        2.058    2,755          0      4.613       20.5            60      0.31             2         56$         0
33-3-15 *       1.170    1,433         67      2.670       20.5            46      0.40             1           0         0
335-3-16          346      .360       220        946       19.5            52      0.43             6           0         0
3D3-3-17 *        460       633        67      16190       20.5            36      0.35             1           0         0
3D3-3-16 *      1.265    1.950        170      3.365       20.5            42      0.33             0           0         0
D3=-B-19        3,767    2.790    1.610        6*167       20.5            60      0.40             3         260         0
B33-3-21        3,675    2,730    2.712        9,125       16.5            66      0.10            4            0         0
33-3-22         1.363    2,160        269      3.632       1l.5            60      0.30            2            0         0
B3W-3-23 ^      1,928    1.406    1,092        4.426       16.5            66      0.46            2            0         0
3D3-B-24        1,408    1,046        754      4,000       16.5            60      0.49             3         160         0
353-3-26        1,154    2,100          0      3,254       16.0            60      0.04             1           0         0
335-3-27        2.156    2,442        158      4,756       19.5            72      1.56            0            0         0
35-B-28 *       2.463    1,779        100      4,342       21.0            66      1.30             1           0         0
3D-3-29         1,295       600         0      2,095       24.0            30      0.01             1           0         0
3BD-3-30       15.107    2,997    3,503       21,607       24.0            60      0.39             2           0         0
YOTAL 3O 1261        78,040   74,212         21.573    123.025



AM 9
Page I of 15
iaaoiA. £hcualI la                     amble. _orna
M/                               otber                            PeI"od      Odat/  cepletim            Arrers 1d
bIopel   t        gqity   IDD    L1as            TOl   Zuteret I lJgraco Uulty   Dela  /O   kla4ml  "Itw-It
_rmbe?           -      -        (Ep      l)te /b   (moths)  (time1)  (sathe)                              (3) 03aths)
DUE-A-i        152flS   10.191    1ts"       27,"2        10.0            72     0.35            s            e
1111-3-1 'a   10         1t722       2"       S1o00       17.01          34      1.80             0        17250 
212-9-2         ,327    227            0      5.39        17.0           40      5.25            12         317       11
382-3-2         1,90    1,000          0      2,970       1.0o          4C       0..0            6          101       35
332-3-4         £,254    1.0s l      7"       s,-n7       20.51          a5      2.0             0           0        us
331-3-5                                        (pltfth P-4 *wsa  &a. 27-1_
38-3            1,426    1.00          Oj    I.OSSI        2.0w          *o~   0.24               1         3SOj      3
l13t-7X     .2,0611    2.7051       0l    4.1           12.21           OI 0."0                            M 1  4A,
* UZt-3-2        5601   §0 I                1,51        20.31          St4    2.11                
BNOLMR-M        2,9    22li         *o         l
u1r930a-f           1ong       O64 *040           3,224       19.0             00                                          0
.13a-2 2a 2t                2so75        470      44          1.5             69     1.5              0        1307      911
035 0-A-S '           752      941    3,224       4,917      1I.5             63     1.56             6          M75    11D3
upp O-..4           4,500    5o4ds       742    10.647        1.5            55      1.27             3      * 2550   0 2430
0351330-A-S         7,420    1.561    7,411      16.372       10.0            70     1.21            12           0        0 -
39150-3-s1          1, S6      "1       419      3,436       19.5           69      0.G2             0           0        0
105U10-0-3            36       253       247-       S4        19.5           67      1.29             1         1        17 15
9635L @305330 tIITI           ILIM      ilm        4ALMI
1Am--             130    los2        66      to12ns      21.6           94      1.94             1         120        0
MIN3-A-2        1,170    1,0ls     1,909      6,973       21.6           60      2.35           5a          9         626
83-A-I          1,415    2,029    1,252       4046        21.4           60      2.57            0          374     1156
3-311-1          n95       744        so      1,19n       21.0           20      1.70            0         250        13
333-3-2           919      s00         0      1,796       21.6           60      S .5s           1           75      620
333  *-3         5a2       4d4       1s11      ,27        20.4           52       .17I           0        * 654      952
033-1-4          373       626       185      1,194       20.4           60      2.61            1           0         0
-3-5             955       922       750M     2,627       20.5           72      6.69           17           *1     S"
_1--"             22a      194        St        432       21.6           40        oh            0        * 176      260
OW-3-7           542       499       169      1.410       10.0           54      1.27            2           15      505
_33-a            646       920       99e      2,g4        19.0           36      3.80            4       * 1614     1220
933-3-10         S96       023       i1n      1,91        13.0           45      2.15            0           0       659
SW3 -312 *0    1,029       923    1,215        ,167       19.0                   3.60  .00                 a 525     224
35S-lt *       2,902       930    1,170       5,082       19.0           s0o       ga  ot ep'*.           a 452     1006
33-3-s            "S       9s3       676      2,416       19.0           6o      2.17            0            0      261
333-3-16       1,214       923        46      2t,1S       19.0           60      4.56            0           75      513
33I-I1s0        1.002      923      1763      4,570       190o           6g      2.23           15         10s       266
385--1            233      640        to      1,069       19.0           48      0.46            0            0        0
533-3-20         goo       923    1.023       2.246       19.0           54      1.04            0            0      960
3s3-38-2         462       023       752      21,7        1S0.0          72      1.22            0            0        0
133-32 *a        906       922       556      2,366       19.0g          4       2.22            0   *    240        $73
333--23        1,293       930    1,217       2,548       22.0           24      1.2s             1           0        0
93 - .34 aa      371       209       306      t.oo"       19.0           60       .06            a          2811     142
38    U-25      10844      450        501      ,344       25.0           24      4.00            0            0        0
ZLLUL                221  UJZA  1LIM   atJM



Page S of 15
llaanani.a  kActuall /a                Sublean toer
211/                              Otbeg                             PorLod      Debt/  Cwo*ltloft           Arrars id
Subwojeaet         ZuLty    D3         Larna    total   Zatexest La@1/graoe  Uguity   Delay /a    RhwiPslo   ot.zeat
oabe              ------ -  (Rp dllio.u  ---  Rate /b   (atho)   (ties)  (mouths)                            (3>3 mouths)
am Ulll Aw-1 1         2,245    6,940      3,009     12,202       20.0            72      1.49             I           0         0
am11 Ui-f-2            5,735     1,631    2,100       9,466       21.0            46      5.10             2           0         a
ll30AM-t -3           10,000    3,000   10,000       23,000       20.0            72      1.30             6           0         0
NM  WAM-A-4            6,536    3,364    6,160       16,062       21.0            72      1."              5           0         0
3m  UQ-1              13,022       650         0     13,672      1.5             GO      1.50             0           0         0
N8   314-3             1,552       663       60      3,105      1.0             42      1.37             0           0         0
MM  UMM33                500       6S6       500      1,066       19.0            t0      1.50 not ospl'd              3         0
am mU 318.-4             150       750       900      1,600       19.0            60      5.00             4           0         0
an VIM." 3               249       696       432      1,399       20.0            72      2.42             3       e653         33
2oUA Ism    I9L       AL*h.    MMli1    2791 21          94
18     -Ar-1 eo      1,909    1,470    3,444         6,023       t9.O            65     2.57             3          100        0
3311U-&-2            2,464     1,63       1,903      6,497       20.0            36      1.42            4            0        0
JMU1-A-3             1,305    2.069         294      3,740       19.0            60      1.7             0            0        0
_Ml I-A-4           12,636    9,247    1,619        23,722       20.0            72      0.07            0            0         0
-mnv -3-1 eo           622       646       610       2,076       19.0            53      2.34            0         o 011    e 775
3IA13-3-3 *0           607       692    1i200        2,6"        19.0            53     2.34             0     0         0    790
UI -3-4              1.546        73116  2,122       4,406       19.0            72      1.94            0                     0
3M1U-  -5            1,702        416    1,000       3,110       17.5            46     0.63             O            0        0
EIN-3-6 0*          2,404       9O    1,6926        5,222       19.5           72      1.17             0          40       363
U-A- *A2 a,2a             4,66        266      7,200        19.5           60      1.34             3    ° 10            6SO8
332- 5-2        3,546    3,249    2,511        9,36S        19.5           go      1.55             0           0         0
32- 3-1           360       392       200         M0       20.4           60      1.70             0           0         0
3l3t- V-2         549       667        11      1,433       21.6            41      0.60             1           0         0
3U2-3-3           259       372        7S        I0O       21.0            42      0.60             0           0         0
332-3-4           232       253       137        622       22.0            48      1.83             0           0         0
pat-8-5 ee      1,256     1,604        96      2,956       20.4            46      1.25             1       e 17S    * 125
3- a3-6  e        679     1,031       219      2,129       22.0            60      2.40             3        e50 S        S9
33-1-7 e          830       617       606      2,SS       19.5            72      1.64             0         I 1SO    * 193
Rmx-- we  So               5 S69      281      1,36      ' 21.0            54      1.20             0       ° 190    °13S
1111- H         1,011     1,664        64      2,779       20.4            72      o.l6             1           0         0
332-3-10 *        637    1,251        139      2,227       20.4            48      0.70             3       e 2        e 91
33- 3-11        1,622    1,777        973      4,372        19.s           54      0.59             1           0         0
3U2-3-12 oe       556       669       161      1,426       20.4            60      0.SO             3 1       170    e 144
M.- F-13                                               (split wIth 3-9 sm4   Ln. 2702-2Us  -
33-3-14           430    1,407        257      2,0941      20.71           461     1.22             1                     0
Srn-n-15         343       9621      162      1,4671      21.01           481    1.60              0           10 o
332-I-16          905       512j       42      1,4591      20.11           60      O.9              0           0         0
m-3-17            347       639        39      1,025       20.1            48      1.71             1           0a 



ANEX_ 9
Page 9 of 15
Finsancin  (Actual) /a.             .    Subloa  ters
PhiX                               Other                              Period       Debt/  Coupletion  _         rra   /d
Subproject         Equity    IaRD    Loan           Total   Interest inal/grace  Equity   Delay Ic   Principal  intorst
Number                 ------  (Rp million) ----late /b    (Months)   (tmse)   (mouths)                         (>3 MoUths)
3I3- 5-10        4,36?     2.666     1,532       0,567        18.0            48      1.02             1            0         0
a2- 5-19         2,073     1,25     1.310       5.208        20.0            48      1.10             0            0         0
a33- 1-20        1,S34     22024      2a9        4,034        19.5            40      1.64             1            0         0
32--21 *         2217      1.750     1,4S0       5,417        16.0            60      0.44             3            0     * 156
-3-22 *e    10647          1.200       000       3,641        10.0            60      0.24             1            0     * 245
33- a-23           783       5S2       366       1,106        13.0            48      1.10             0            0         0
I33-3-24 *         292       202       11i         692       1U.9             40      1.31             1        6 40      * 125
3- 3-25          1.096     1,004       196       2,250        10.0            60      0.20             1        0 100     * 175
32- 3-26         2,202     1,203       797       4,ao2        18.0            60      1.76             0            0         0
3RI-3-27           9 67      914       606       2.567        13.0            54      0.15             0         * 65     * 110
3- 2-200         1,334     1.614       306       3,334        10.6            60      0.00             0        * 100     * 145
33-5a-29         1.050     2,725       575       5,150        19.0            60      0.34             1            0         0
32- 3-30           973       652       240       1,373        10.0             0      053              1            0         0      
33- 0-31           470       750       100       1,320        10.3            46      0.00             0            0         0
12- 3-32           513       477       169       1.150        10.6            60      0.O0             0            0         0
32- 9-33         2.344     1,156       644       4,344        10.0            60      0.00             1            0         0
33- 3-34         5.596     2,751     2,249      10,590        19.6            S4      0.42             0            0         0
31- 9-35           372     1,032       216       2,122        21.0            60      0.72             1            0         0
BAX- -36         1,783     l,5s?     1,493       4,703        10.0            60      0.58             1            0         0
3- -"37          2,253     2,697       803       5,753        21.0            60      1.13             0            0         0
53- 11-30          064       ?67       224       1,764        21*0            54      0.45             0            0         0
5z- 0-39 *0         50       652       340       1,650       20.4             43      1.15             0        *100    *143
33t-3-40           350       505        6S       1,000        25.0            54      1.17             0            0         0
t9 1 1Ut f4I          S3,41U    53.615    21LU    128.990
etC- A-1           1,200     1.000         30      2,230        16.0            72      0.92             4            0         0
0C2- A-2           2,540     3,660       597       6,797        10.0            72      1.63             3          714       526
IDWC-A-3             500     2.000     1,60S       4,105        10.0            72      7.33             2            0         0
OCX- A-4           5,903     3,500          0      9,403        10.0            60      0.59             0            0         0
PVCI- A-5          1,605     3.000          0      4,805        10.0            60      1.63             9          647       S29
RDNC2-& &7         1,622     1,179        146      2,947        16.0            60      0.79             6            0         0
A- a-         1,412      1,262       162       2,636       16.0            60       1.00            14            0         0
DCM- A-9             438     1,200          0      1,638        10.0            60      2.70             2            0         0
IpWeC-A-10 0*    1,325       1,166         13      2,504        18.0            60      0.9S             3            0         0
iwe- &-1a          1,160     1,200       300       2,608        10.0            60      1.27             5            O 
0wfr- a-la         1,482     1,700         0       3,1e2        10.0            60      1.13            11            0         0
IVCI- A-13       10,635      5,300          a     15,935        19.0            60      0.47                          0         0
1DXC- 5-1            700       516        115      1,331        10.0            72      0.82             2            0         0



ANX 9
Page 10 of 15
Financing fActual) /a                  Bubloan Term
Pur/                             Other                             Period      Debt/  Completion          Arrears /d
subpro ject       EquLty   IBRD    Loans    Total   Interest inlllgrace  SquLty   Delay /c   Prlaopa   Intezet
Number            ---------- (Rp million) ----- Rate /b   (months)  (tinge)  .(months)                    (13 months)
IDFCI- 3-2          575       500         0      1,075       16.0           60      0.69             3           0         0
PWCI- B-3         1,340       0oo         0      2,140       16.0           60      0.41             0           0         a
PDPCI-8-4         5,400    1.700          0      7,100       16.0           66      0.30             3           0         0
1DCZ-I-5 *0         500       600    1,565       2.865       19.0           36      4.26             3         120        63
PDFCI- 3-6        2,965       665         0      3,850       16.0           60      0.16             0           0         0
PbCI-in-? e       2,983    1,058    2,004        6.045       18.0           60      1.04             1       e720    0 440
PDVCI-3-0         1.666    1,250        546      3,462       18.0           60      1.08             5           0         0
DMIC- 3-10        1,299    1.$75          0      2,874       18.0           60      0.25             2           0         0
P?c- B-11 *         7 05      106       594      1.405       21.0           60      1.00             4           0         0
DYCZ--12            400       657       569      1,646       23.0           60      3.17             2           0         O
TOYMI PDCI 1231      4I5Z5   36,21        Li354     92.943
mm DTA- A-i *         1,500    1,403   23,199    26,102          22.0            63    16.40            16      e 3501        NA
Ban Do - A-2          3,157    3,287          a      6,444       22.0            96      1.04            3           0         0
mm  DUA-D.-3          6,101    5,461          0     13,562       25.0            60      0.67            a           0         0
am   °'-31 *-           444       648         0      1,292       16.0            27     1.91             3           0         0
IDK DMlL- 1-3 *0      1,597       199         0      1,796       21.0            60     0.12             1           0         0
MN  DU- 3-4           1,063       700         0      1,763       19.0            42     0.66             0           0         0
1a     D-155 e          480       090       627      1,997       20.0            48      3.16            S      * 1305        81
SUMD MMA--7           1,720       830    2,571       5,121       1.0             46    1t.98             0           0         0
M D i1 62   13w6    26.397     50077



PR          iw'ur  w'u                                        hIrl   uTgTu wr   UT    nvm   wu  X.  
QO     0*98   9-0gt        G9t       008       99        09        0         gt(tt      tO?@91      o9pt1     0         SCVOT    a              Ot-Q-8Oe
O-te   Olst            Ott       0t        *9        ot         9t       t6Sl1       og t       0z&0      LOG)      s&#tg      tSot         49-6 -an
s       **tg   5'LS        St         ot       t9         09                 opt         *se e      got       09         scu* :    9 t t     *-  og- .s- uos
is      -St   O-tS         0t        OtP      t9         Ot        Ot        G9t9 *V         1        190     *0 ofOS0*             tV:g'       &10-s-aon
s      0-St   L*0          SLt       00        go        of        0         *tOt       sos*t      gOt       Os         *69t      O            9-a-no
vs      *g t-    o 9-g      t9t      t9tt   8s           *1                  896        *oet        os:       O         *U'        e O           g-e-sou
U      0O98   t*98         S9t       T    9     9  O) 90489                             89"1        LL O                $"* O      0            tg-8-we
u      *ot   clog          9t        St        99        09        0         910        019'?       too       0         990'       0          .  8-6 -w6e
Vs     Wts   9*0:          09t       Ot        19        1,        e         not01      1990s       0t.       *         PLO',&     0            88-5-58.8
VS     Otg   VVt           Ot9       006       so        09        U         9600       9u,:        9CS       19t 51     Ogt       00os         tig- -aom
In     0Ot   9O*          T0o       @1T       to        OOt       0         8tgt       t90t        tt8)      0         1Mo't      0            t-s-aOn
v       o-:t  e'S          go9       SS9       St       0e         0         66(        Stn'9       Ott       O         owtog      O         *s-s -so
Vs    0*91   6I?           8tg       058       it         9                  gte:t       0t It      8tt       8)         *e,It     it           ut- -ass
cO     VU    O*tt   L'at           ts       0o         to        00                  tog': ttl:            gIc g                ttst       0            9t-s-sos
u      0-t   6Q61          Qtt       9S        t9        Of        0         (9tg       t1t V       Get       gS       Z8('        0091          1 St-5-80
0      08t  C's            910       @06       to        so        9         OtS'       Ott's       p09       0         too00      O St- - D
VU     0t8   9tL           6SS      t(S        SL        so        0         0t90       109(        g9)       0         V08'(      0            tt(-5-
Ua      -48    l&          Lot       008      9I         St        0          40*9      V9898       got       0         S1'        0         P* gt-s-mos
vi     0*98   *0t          0         e 0S      09        09        09        ttCt       9t9@t      X 001    t98         *9o,'t     (Oll         tt-U-aOn
vs     0-98   Vt*          Ott       088       to        so        0          Mot       *868        tog       0         tttt            e     - o. 0t-s -s
U        M9t   O*P         @8       1Ot 9t               001       901       3tL'o      StUOt       set       tLt       tlt'0      OO,,S I- -"S
Ue     O1St   t 99         cot       OOt       9L        09        O         LtOOl Ot"O             L9o       0         t10S5      * O           8-5-8
Uo    0t8   Vs            (19       9t9       If        001       0         t99        to0         sac)      0         3tD        0              d4- -me
U      081-   O-tt          (t1      Set       1t        S9        0         09:t?t     *1l1t    800          0         (90tt      0             9--8-an
Vs     *-91   O*9t         1e CO               V                   S         u          Vs         Vs                   vs 0 V*- t-s -urB
55     6'l   5s9           Ott t     08         9        of        0         U9'?       to99'S      UC        0        tt'        0         e 8-5-X8M
U      0-99   0-9          1g0       699        6 go1t             0         90(        t9oo'I      Los       0          099       0             t-5-36
Lg       Is8    MOll       008      s0                  0Ot       09        Oct(8c    95g'Sv      18t9      0          ftt99      lt UtOt       8--8V-
Pt     0@8O   V£t          OGOt      004       Ot        St        01 9S   tL09          0S0 lo  t E"I       0          99SS0(    0S9tt          -1-8
i/M  I/w     I MM  dg)  ruW.            AxM    rIu-ov   pAU   W4.za    (uW#vrlu dv)                 ('UrrPiu dv)         (U.pu  vt)                 M.onua
~~~m~~oa    |   _siu  *ow. :[ _ oE '_/ow  -  *313[W-0S3               a      pw43   ./*oza 1                  *i.o.a   j.a           St.4q
GM3 -33  qw       @j  19  a-I   o"p zoUw T'Wa                         5, WT vpo00an  Z.w    *amow  3nY
;* Wm*   .                          ;o 0 Sy qSzno4           LP U  UT '             i;j4f l@     GMW    "Palve Pnu-u
_         __.___                                                                                                 'S            __             _
. ~  jo  ~  elsa
S0 IT tt - w



ANNX 9
Page 12 of 15
Total                 Total
Annual Salem         Annual Profito   Tner. In A1nul                   Uxport as S of                                 Cost of
PFIx/         Betore    After    Before   After             Producion /I              Total Production             Inarease in           Job        Ix--   Bs-
subproject          Proj.     Proj./.   Proj.  Proj./e IxpOstOd  Actual   Before - Atter Proj. -    go. of Jobb                           Generated Unto   Post
Number               (Rp million)          (Rp Million)         (Rp milUon)    Project  Bzp'd   ActZa sxp'd   Actual  (ftp sla.) P /  VRRPt
BR1-A-l         41,2051      1.947       600    (4.769        6,559       1,94?         0        100         0       444        415         44.4   3S.0       KA
531-3 -1         7,775      22.266       348        528      (8,163      12,252        65         79        t9       300        439          1.1      oh      IA
BNI-B-2          3,406       5.569         35    (1.365       4,247       2,548        40         70        55        370       3SS         15.2   25.0    (20)
913- 8-3         6,707      11,529       S34    (2,36        2,059      2.059        100         90        90       200        190         15.6   25.0       12
533-3-4          2,904       4,067         41        24       3,028       3,028       100        100       100       340        340         10.0   37.0       VA
333-3-S                                   -----------    ------ -(pUt   th m     3-6 l ndr Ln 2702-3D  ---
ml:-B-6            400       4,157)        s       (362       t,304       4,357        c0        100       100       500        865          6.0   23.0)    Wa
333-5-7         15,565      19,466     l.540        62       35,065     20,460         67                   S1       26?       194         25.0   22.0       D
3SX-B-10             01      1,155          0        O5       2,142       1,155         0        100       100       200        196          7.9   29.0       33
zmLnLLil            li    1   lfAl         Lu         Idi1      iLU         £lJi                                       L          Lii           U
TOTAL lNI  t91         77§62       70  le8    3.103    17.60S)    S4.221        41.806                                    2 621      2.814         t 
UPPINDO-A-1          4,107      11,061        521       605         870         020         20        60         35       400        470          6.9      20     37
.UPPlUDo-A-2          _           7,903      -          (319!        6561      1.11      -            100       100*       325       3s          12.9      24      WA
UPPIND3 -A-3 **       _          1,067      -           (163'     1,100         600      -            90         S0       306        126         15.1      21     *a
UPPINDO-A-4  *        _          6,S65      -        (2,962       1,216          MA      -            85          6       142        200         53.2      34     WA
UPPINDC-A-5           _ -        1,200      -           (4071     1,707          N       _ -          60         76       403        350         46.6      17     22
UPPXND0-3-1         S2,ff       10,507         40       016       1,156       1.032        100       100        100       450        650          1.7      26     WA
UPpI300-3-3           -          1,76o      -           (110         191         KA      -           100|         0       110|       lS          7.5      22-    32
OAL UPPID30 t71         6 775      47.103        Ml    t2(410)       70S         3 633                                    2136    2L486            11.4
3D9--1             0a       4,559          0       369       1,152       4.559         0         40         0         60        99         23.8   39.0       26
BBD-A-2              0       1.915          0      (617       3,076       1,915         0         60        96        357       330          S.1   26.0      Wa
ODD-A-3              0         152          0      (2S4       3,445         152         0        100       100        339       300         15.7   25.0       WA
BBD-B-1          1,546       2,139         29        45       2,664      2.139         16        100       100         49        50         32.4   35.0       27
BBD-3-2              0         767          0       (40       4,556         76         0a        100       100       303        269          6.2   32.0       WA
BB9-B-3 *-         647         592        84        5s        7,296         592        60         60        60         96        90         14.2   30.0       na
399-5-4          5,347       6,222         6S        59      11,150       8,222       100        100       100        110       100         11.9   3S.0       32
BD-B 9-35            0       3.916          0       (52       6,074       3,910         0         50        21       200        10o         14.6   36.0       Om
38D-B-6 *'           0         666          0      (333       2,034         86s         0         60         7        150        50|         2.9   26 .0       a
89D-B-7            773       3,809          0       169       4,669       3, 797        0         5         97       130        120         11.6   35.0       NA
38C-B-8              0a          0          0         0       1,675           0         0        100         0       229        200         12.6   32.0       NA
390-B-10             0         290         0         73       1,423         290         0        100       100       232        10|          9.4   27.0       WA
B9B-B-12 "           0         192          0         0      11,146         192         0       100        100       ISO        150         21.1   36.0       NA
89D-B-13             0           0         0          0       5,123           0         0       100          0                    0       -      |  27.0       A
BBD-3-1S         3,"66       2,489        39       (650       3,967      2,469         93       100         93       166        190         12.7   21.0       WA
B9B-3-16             0         670         0       (120       1,151         670         0        50         50       104         96         22.3   26.0       WA
839-3-18             0         142         0       (603       3,120         142         0         50         0        91         67         52.6   21.0       WA
BB3- B-19        6,941      14,349       161        242      13,587     14,349        100       100        100       153        140          7.4   31.0       27
3BD-5-20         1.595       3,104       427        164       3,343      3,164          0        50         15       127        120         26.2   31.0       KA
33D-3-21             0       3,696         0        110       3,950       3698          0       100        100        52         52         41.1   47.0       WA
589-B-22  '          0      2,393          0        194       7.776      2,393          0       100         32       149        251          9.5   21.0       WA
BBD-3-23             0 ol    21,7833       01      (289      10.719     21,763          0        90         60T    1,73        1593          2.2   30.0       27
BDP-3-24 *'          0         116         0         I 106    4,123        11s          0        90         33       924        t00          1.5   28.0       16
3SD-B-25             0       1,000         0        (12       2,763|     1,000          a       100        100        91         91         25.8   27.0       24
TOTAL t241             20M725      77Z1t                1. L9S5)   1208    f9 77075                                       5,934      Li5l 506l



AMEX 9
page 13 of 15
Total                 Total
Annual Sales         Annual Profits   inr. ln AnualI Export as t of                                                   Cost of
PFI/          Before    After    Before   After             Production /a             Total Psoduon                Increase              Job Jx-   3m-
Subproject          Proj.    Proi./e   Prol.  Proi./a  dxSC*                   ACtlA    Bdgore - After Prol. -    lto  of Job               enrae  Ante   Post
Number              (Np million)           (lp million)         (Rp millon)    Project  Zxp'd   Actul   Ixp'd   Actul  (fp al.) IRa/f 11R/f
MAN  WNaa-A--         177,672      22,993   128.9)4    (1,135       34,398      2,293         00         so        s0        500       500         24.4      28      19
DANK PrAaa-A-2          -           4,569      -          (921      45,000      4.549      -            100        10        1S0       1So         63.1      26      NA
SANK NIAOA-A-3          -3.000                 -         1*1196      4.000      4.000      -             90        90        150       IT5        131.4      1s      BR
AN  XIAUa-A-4           - _,924                -          (313      20,249      1,923      -            100        gA        330       200         44.6      24      NA
ban  NAOAa-S            ,972          NA        (60        NA       0,1b9          NA        20         es        IA        so        000         17.3      22     am
Da  VIAGA-.-2           6,050           A        4o41       NA       0,570          NA         0        100        Ia        220       220         14.1      22      NA
8a  NtAGA-3-3             457       3,157       (197      (103       1.290       3. 15?        9         65         9        200       160         11.1      21      ML
DANK UIAGA-1-4 0*            9_55              -           (14       1.000         955         0        100        95         50        50           .0      15      19
sa   MIAGA-S-5 *- |       120         120         10       (10       1.326         120         o        100         9        200       110         10.6      36
totAL NIAG     L t    t86a271      42 718   129 1$6   "LLd)   1M5l 1I          25.107                                     21600      2 465         "4
DANKIN-A-1 *-         5,910      12,610         34    (1,044      19,651      13,610         81        00         39       169        414         16.5      26      6
SANKSKnz-A-2               0     10,071          0      1,408      5,947      11,45           0       100        100       822        827          7.9      41     32
S"NxSXIM-A-3          9,274      13,94?        133        210     1s,705      20.726         51        62         36     1.600       1732          2.2      30     NA
DNKNXXN- A-4 *        3,239      12,903        192        204     15.930       5.626         to        90         42       2S0        751         31.6      24      5
BANKNKIn-S-1 0*            0      1.100          0          3      2,570       1.044          0        04        100       219        119         17.S      19     Ka
DANKSKIN-S-3 *-            0      1.494          0       (642      3.397       3,487          0       100         S5       600        400          6.1      26      A         4
DANXKnII-S-4               0     14.353          0      1,355     10.232      18,641          0       100        100       501        993          4.4     22        L       °
SRNNXKIM-9-S               0      9.503          0         22      5.040       9#239          0       100        100       500        665          4.7     24      34
SANKNXIN-3-4 *-0                            0          (1,108      7.212         024          0       100          0        90        100        52.2      23      8
tOTAL SANISKIn  t91   t8.41431     764679       121       .l)    f8LAl         as 123                                     4. 759     60 01           i
SRI-A-i e0       6.251       7.798        364       424       3.209      1,547         24         e5        67        400       410         17.6      29      Ka
SRI-A-2              0      30.696          0     1.456      27.196     30.694          0         70        00        394       190         23.9      26      NA
DR1- B-1             0       2.517          0       144       2,545      2517o 0                 100        05        269       315          3.0      40      Rh
sRI-B-2          4.193       8.245       239        443       3.755s     4,052         34         60        65        29s       325          4.4      21      NL
SRI-S-B3         3447       5232        293        399         312      1,765         17         50s       75        200       235          3.0      26      NA
BRX- B-4         6.765       9.919        115       162       1.706      3.154         27         s0        60        516        16          1. 2     20      NA
BRI-S-S *0       1823        2*202         e5       107       1,436        4S9          0        100        65         51        57         51.9      44      NA
BRt- B-6         2,315       3*118        167       211         418        603         26        60         6S         S0        60         35.S      24      NA
BR1- B-7 00      9.429      13.887       315        456       1,319      4458         5so        e5         60       300        3371         6.7      31      ML
sRt- B- 0*       8,400      12,426        42         75       6,916      4.020         44        60         50        28         35         39.1      29    NR
SR1- B-9           919       1,876       250        476         73         099         e1       100|        901       23        60f          3.3      41     NA
SRI- B-10 *      4 4.265     4.906       360        436         962        *41         55        65         45       391        395          5.4      33     NA
BRS- 8-ll        1601        2,07S         44        74         346      1.274         59        90         es        6S         95         46.0      26     IA
BRS-a-12 e       2.221       3,165       232        320        13521       944.        701      100|        65J      1201       1231        11.61    311    3
8Rt- 3-13                                ------------(--------  soplit with B-9 t d4r ta. 2702-IND)    ---------------- -----
DRX-5-14         966 1      12,9971      404        050        1499w     3.1301        43        50         05       175w       105         11.3w    37      NA
8RI-S--1         1,404|      2.393}       66|       1103        2341       909|        27       100         60       1205       126         11.5|    29      NA
8RS-B-14        3S170l        40615      250        369       1 1601     1,637|        66        e5         90        100|       25s        11.71    26       fA
RI--17          13.0495    17,5121       316        420       2.6061     4,4431        27         60        70       32S1       300          3.41    34      Na



ANEX 9
Page 14 of 15
Total                 Total
AnUnul Salem         Annual Profits  IZUr. in Annual                  Bxport a   4 of                               Cost of
PFX1          Before    After         efr.e   After        Production /        _    Totoa Produotloon            Increase i            Jlb       Ri-    Zw-
Subproject             Proj.       .1.   Proj.  Proj./e Expected  Actual   Before - After Proj.                        o. gf jobs   Generated Ante   Poet
number              (Rp milion)           (Rp million)         (Rp mIll1on)    Project  Bxp'd   Actul   Exp'd   Actul  (Rp an.)  Mi t  ER/f
RZ- 3-18             0     55.963          0     2,350      17,430    S5,963           0        90        100       793       o11         10.6      23     PA
33U- 0-It        0,323     14,432        213       442       9,254      6,309         64       100       100      2,760      276s          2.9      2?     ph
1R1- B-20       2.587       3.225        123       151         435        430         41       100        t0        397       400         10.1      42     Oa
3RS-3-21 *       4.55       4.911        134       133       1.381         56         46        90        50        200       200         27.1      29     PA
BRI-B-22 *-          0      1.189          0       190         990      1,189  :100                       60        215       21S         17.0      26     Pa
3RI- 0-23       2.691      5s333          54       101       2.177      2,442         48        40         is       400       500          3.4      52     Pa
0RS-B-24 *         509        635         13        14         212         126        40       100        56        100       300          2.3      23     PA
332-3-25 ^           0      1,544          0        56       1.649      1,544          0       100         60       350       320          7.2      27     PA
BRS- B-24       20444       2.767        412       596         271        723         70        65         90       375       89S          4.7      25     oh
BRS- -2? *           0        622          0        t8         746        422          0        00        8o        250       269          9.5     2s      ea
BRS- -26 **          0      1.706          0       147       2.496      1.708          0        0oo       90        138       146         22.s     27      PA
BRS- -29         4s99s      *.218        466       791       1.657       3223         41       100        90        1So       153         33.7      22     PA
9*-0-30          1,333      1,57s        120       145         176        240         54        es        90        200       254          7.3      26     PA
DU- 3-31             0        122          0        21         131        122          0        90        g0        100       1OS         12.4      21     PA
RX- 0-32             0        721          0        96         667        721          0        95        95         60        69         16.6      33     NA
331- 3-33            0      3,88          0       149       2.500      8see8          0        es        Ss        350       361         12.0     22      PA
BRS-B-34             0     10.093          0     1,170       S 444     10.893          0       1oo        90        464       475         22.3      43     NA
BR3- 0-35            0      34697          0       137       3,814      3,997          0        60        70        170       171         12.4      26     2A
BR- 8-36         1.761      2.536        278       394         659        775          0        72        70        400       40S         11.6     27      EL
33!- 3-37       9.207      14,641        S46       059         607      5.454        5s         s0        es        138       124         41.7      47     NA
M31- -30         2.070      3.016         38        53         7S6       903          27        75        00         40        45         39.2      35     PA
32- 3-39 *-    1.719        20166         74        b)         840        447         13        0o        s0         40        So         33.2     27      WA
RS- 3-40         1,573      2.725        145       245       1.129      1.152         69       1oo        90        250       250          4.0      28     NA
SOeAL BRS  *A2       123o32   293409          *. ao4    1S.061    118.140    170.626                                    " 7104    I 14,2|         1!AI
P11CS- A-i         -          3.4So      -           224      3J636       2.812      -           100       100        200       210         10.6     20      af
PvCI-a-2           -          20595      -          (938      10.876      2.811      -            00        s0      1.141       400         16.8      27     KA
VPWCI-A-3          -         36,567      -           410      11,600     37.420      -           100        A*6    1.570       1300          3.2      27     Ka
PCX-A-4            -          7.346      -          (466       8,521      3.997      -            90        90        304       400         23.s      34     26
DPVCI-A-5          -          3,209      -        (2.219       6.800      3,0S7      -            90        90        242       250         19.2      34     24
P356t-a-i **       -            300      -        (3,459       2.163        193      -           100       100        160       120         24.6     26      Pa
PW1l1-A-8          -          3,560      -            so      5500       3.560      -           100       100        600       250         11.3      27     27
PDPCI-A-9          1.892      3.296        248        333        224        161         70        70        70         71        7S         21.0     26      25
P0"1-A-bo **       -             06      -          (587       .000          6      -           100       100        333       100         25.0     38      IU
PDVCI-a-1A         _          4.320      -           140       3.610      4,609      -           100       100        164       220         12.2      32     Pa
esCI-A-12          -          2,197      -            23       3.459      2.570      -           100       100        263       300         10.6      24     1o
P12e-A-13         35.475     41,100        121       709       1.192        972         40        40        40         42        50        318.7      28     27
NMICS-0-1            349      1.021        135       247       1.350      1472          30        80        70        110       1301        10.2      21     24



ANNEX 9
Page 15 of 15
Total                Total
Annual Sales        Annual Profits  Inor. in Annual                  ISport an I of                               Cost of
P ,       V    oB Bfore   Afttr    Before   After         Production /0            Total Production            Increase 1n-         Job        Ia-   Zx-
Subproject          Prol.   Proj./o   Proi.  Proi./e Expected  Actual   Before - After Proi. -    No. of Job.   Gnerated AAte   Post
Nusber              (Rp million)          (Rp *lllon)        (Up aillion)    Project  8xp'd   Actual   Ixp'd   Actual  (Rp ali.) FUR/f FUR/f
P0181-8-2           231      12377         37         69      1.599      1*146      -           100       100        62        S0         21.5     25   _0
"DPS B-3          _-          1,065     -            44      3,978      2,476      -           100       100       326       350          6.1     35      30
PD07CS--4          -          7.193      -        1,611       3,314      7,193      -            90        90       135       140         50.7     26      40
POPCI-3-5 "        -          2,266      -          (343      1.172      2.464      -           100        97       122       130         22.0     29      25
PD1C1-3-6          -          9,416     -           564       6,042      6,864      -            70        40       600       900          4.3     42      3
PDICI- 1-7 *       -          7.02?     -            160      7.508      7611    _-             100        00       603       620          9.0     27      VA
P 1-3-S-  5es, 366            7,4f 1      541       235       2,100      6.,935        70       100        80       295       240         14.4     50      VA
PD318-5-10         _          4*143     _           264        .740      4.920        100       100       100       230       215         13.4     28       0
DIPC2-B-l l  *     -            300     -            108        56         380      _           100       100        40        35         40.1     21      17
PDWCX-D-12        4,594       6,603       742       608       3,646      4,749        100       100       100       150        70         23.5     27      24
tOtAL P318K 1231      47L907  16.829        1.324 1    L165)   97I21I   10E -463                                     7 763    4.55S          Ila
mm DUY&- A-1               0      13.341         0         0      13,341          0         0        90         0        302         0      -           22     30
3051 vUt- A-2              0     37s180          0    3,240      36,453      37,180         0       100       100       66?        750         0.6      31     22
3013 wUk- a-3              0     32,690          0    (1,915     27,774      32.690       100       100       100     1,308       2000         6.8      37      13
mm3 DUTA- B-1              0           0         0         0     10,243           0         0       100         0       350          0      -           30    -
DAM0   MA- e-3             0           0         0         0 o&                   0        o0        NA         0       200          0      -           26    -
5081 MUA- 8-4          7,613     14,211      1,204     1,365      3,762       3,774       100       100       100       400        4SO         3.9      32     32
mm3 wsUa- B-S *'           0        947          0      1799      1,647           0         0       100         0        133        76        26.3      26      17
8013K SUk- B-7             0       1,226         0       252      2,577       1,226         0       100       100       200        236        21.7      22      17
mm DDLLU               ZAIU 1   M.l  I        Z  L:      A       IL2Z::??I     "0                       I     10E      LJU0                      :'UI   2 !
DMN  WSA 18)           7 813     99.595      1.204    2 14fi    9S 797       74 B70                                   3.542      3 512        1.
Ia  Sotl projet eoot  ereludo, permanent working capital.
lb  Interest rate et the tine of  ubloan approval by PrZ.
la Start of comenrelal produatLon of the projoet.
/d Arreast are moae reaent available (October, November or Dweamber 1992).
lo  AMter projeat. based on lot year of full produotion (mot rceat year If full produatlon not avalalablo).
If  rRR    rinancial rate ot rotern.
NA a not eveLlable
* Portion of arreare are 12 monthe or more.
e Clalsafied loans (doubtful and bad loans)



73
ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOANS 2702-IND AND 2979-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUBSECTOR DISTRIBUTION OF SUBLOANS APPROVED   oan 2702-IND and 2979-IND'
EDP I          EDP I t          Total
Woodworking/lumber                  9      18%      is    11%      27    13%
Rattan furniture/carpets            15    29%      27      17%     42    20%
Textile/garments                    6      12%     27      17%     33    16%
Agro processing                     10    19%      25      16%     35    17%
Footwear/leather                    2      4%      24      15%     26    12%
Engineering/metalwork               4      8%       3      2%       7      3%
Hotel/tourism                       -               6      4%       6      3%
Electronics                         -       -       6      4%       6      3%
Others (toys, paper products, rubber  5    10%     23      14%     28    13%
gloves, chopsticks)
TOTAL                  51    100%    159   100        210   10%
.~~.                                            --.              =



74
ANNEX I1
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOANS 2702-IND AND 2979-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OGEQRAPHIC DI=RIBUTION OF SUBL ANS (ans 2702-1ND and 2979-IND)
_____________I              EDP I              EDP n1               Total
EastJava                 3       6%        36       22%         39       18%
West Java               13       25%       60       38%        73        35%
Central Java             6       12%        8        5%         14       7%
Jakafta                  6       12%       19        12%       25        12%
| Sumatra                13      25%       22       14%        35        17%
Kalimantan               6       12%        1        1%         7        3%
Sulawesi                 3       6%         4        2%         7        3%
Bali/Nusa Tenggara       -        -         6        4%         6        3%
Maluku                           2%         1        1%         2         1%
Riau                     -                  2        1%         2         1%
TOTAL             51     100%      159       100%       210      100%



75
ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOANS 2702-IND and 2979-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BREAKDOWN OF CLASSIFIED SUBLOANS (Loans 2702-4ND and 2M79-N)
PFI                         No.             |      %ofPFIPortfolio
BDN                                14                           26
BNI                                 2                           11
BRI                                21                           36
BankExim                            5                           56
BBD                                 7                           29
PDFCI                               5                           22
UPPINDO                             3                           43
Bank Duta                           4                           50
Bank Niaga                          2                           22
Total                         63                           30
Subsector         j            No.                 % of Subloan Approval
Woodworking/lumber                       8                            4
Rattan furniture/carpet                  16                           8
Textile/garments                         7                            3
Agro processing                          14                           7
Footwear/leather                         4                            2
Engineering                                              _
Hotel/tourism                             1                           I
Electronics                              3                            2
Others (toys, paper, products,           10                           5
rubber gloves, chopsticks
Total                         63                          30



