Documcn' of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report N,o. 7228-IND
A/ e- 6Z 7  7-/?zVt IAI                                   (Rev.)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 16, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(as of December 31, 1987)
US$1.00 = Rp 1,650
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia                        -   April 1 - March 31
Participating Financial Institutions           -   January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ATRD      -   Agency for Trade Research and Development
BAPINDO   -   Bank Pembadgunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BBD       -   Bank Bumi Daya
BDN       -   Bank Dagang Negara
BEII      -   Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
BI        -   Bank Indonesia
BNI 1946  -   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BPKP      -   Agency for Financial and Development Supervision
BRI       -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DFI       -   Development Finance Institution
EDP       -   Export Development Project
EQUIP     -   Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program
ESB       -   Export Support Board
ESF       -   Export Support Fund
FMO       -   Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries
0OI       -   Government of Indonesia
LPPI      -   Indonesia Banking Development Institute
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOI       -   Ministry of Industry
MOT       -   Ministry of Trade
NBFI      -   Non-Bank Financial Institution
NTB       -   Non-Tariff Barriers
OLA       -   Onlending Loan Agreement
PB        -   Participating Bank
PDFCI     -   Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PFI       -   Participating Financial Institution
PT ASEI   -   PT Asuransi Ekspor Indonesia (Export Insurance Company of
Indonesia)
SCB       -   State Commercial Bank
SLA       -   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOE       -   Statement of Expenditures
TA        -   Technical Assistance
TIPSC     -   Trade and Industrial Policy Steering Committee
UPPINDO   -   Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February/March
1988.  Mission members were Victor Agius (mission leader), Austin Hu, Charles
Magnus and Godfrey Tumusiime.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
This revision of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) includes 17
pages of the attachment to the Appendix that were omitted inadvertently
from the SAR distributed on June 16, 1988. The Second Export Development
Project was approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank
on June 29, 1988. The revised SAR is for distribution to the Executive
Director for Indonesia, the Government of Indonesia, participating
financial institutions under the project, and those bank staff members who
have responsibility for implementing or overseeing the project. This
report supersedes the earlier SAR and should be used as the working
document for project implementation.
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
August 11, 1988
| This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official Juties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY          .....................................  iii
I.  THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND THE EXPORT OF MANUFACTURED GOODS         1
A* Overview.................................   .............*.        1
P. Change in Policy Orientation to Increase Industrial
Sector Efficiency and Non-Oil Exports.....................        2
C. Building an Institutional Infrastructure to Support
Export Growth 5. *......*....   ...........   ........... .  5
D.  The Bank's Role and Strategy in the Industrial Sector .....       5
II.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND EXPORT FINANCE .......................       9
A.  Structure, Policies and Development.......................        9
B.  The System of Export Financing............................    11
C.  The Bank's Role and Strategy in the Financial Sector ......    12
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................................      12
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Content.................    12
B.  Financial Intermediaries tUnder the Proposed Project.......6   15
C. Overall Project Costs and Financing.......................    17
D. Features of the  ....  .................            ......  .    18
E.  Project Benefits and Risks.................................      22
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..oo .................oo.o     23
APPENDIX The Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) Under The Proposed
Project
Attachments:   1.  The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks:
Organizational Data, 1985-87
2. The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks:
Summarized Balance Sheets (Aggregated), 1985-87
3.  The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks:  Audited
Income Statements (Aggregated), 1985-87
4.  The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks:  Loan
Portfolio Quality - Collectibility, 1985-87
5.  Bank Niaga:  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1985-87
6. Bank Niaga: Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
7.  Bank Duta:  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1985-87



- ii -
8. Bank Duta: Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
9.  PDFCI:  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1985-87
10.  PDFCI:  Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
11   UPPINOO:  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1985-87
12.  UPPINDO:  Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
AMNEXES
1.   Subprojects Approved Under EDP (Loan 2702-IND) as of March 22, 1988
2.   Status of Technicai Assistance and Training Components Under EDP
(Loan 2702-IND)
3.   Project Pipeline
4.   Formula for Calculation of Relending Rate from GOI to Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs)
5.   Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
6.   Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 11038R1



- iii -
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Projrct Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Indonesia,
Beneficiaries:        Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI 1946); Bank Dagang Negara
(BDN); Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI); Bank Bumi Daya (BBD);
Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEII); Bank Niaga; Bank
Duta; Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI); and Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia
(UPPINDO).
Amount:               US$165.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace.
Relending Terms:      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) would relend the
proceeds of the lo-, to the nine participating financial
institutions (PFIs, at a variable interest rate
determined on a six-month basis and equal to the weighted
average cost of tneir interest=4ear.g customer deposits
but subject to a floor of the Bank's rate plus 1.75%.
The Government would bear the direct foreign exchange
risk on the Bank loan. The spread between the Bank's
rate and the relending rate from the GOI to the PFIs
would compensate the GOI for bearing the tareign exchange
risk. Bank funds would be relent to the PFIs for a
period of 15 years, including three years of grace. The
PFIs would onlend these funds to their subborrowers at
prevailing market rates.
Project
De_cription:        The project's objectives are to ensure continuity of, and
to promote further, activities supported under the first
Export Development Project (Loan 2702-IND). Specifi-
cally, it would: (i) increase productive capacity in the
export-oriented manufacturing sector by strengthening the
ability of the financial system to provide term loans for
projects contributing to non-oil export development both
by direct resource transfer and by broadening the range
of financial intermediaries active in term lending; and
(ii) provide support for the effective implementation of
the ongoing policy and institution-building initiatives
under the technical assistance component of the EDP. The
project will cover both direct and indirect exporters.



- iv -
Tha project will provide the five state-owned commercial
banks, two private banks and two non-bank financial
institutions with long-term funds to support about 110
non-oil export-oriented investments.
Benefits and Risks:  The benefits of the proposed operation are increases in
non-oil exports and employment generation, and
strengthening the term-lending capacity of the financial
system. The risks the project faces are two-fold:
(i) possible domestic opposition to full implementation
of already announced pol:cy reform measures and to
efforts for taking additional complementary measures; and
(ii) the possibility that a term-lending market fails to
develop and that the PFIs restrict their activities to
the amount of funds provided by the Bank. However, these
risks are small. The GOI has already demonstrated its
determination to deregulate trade and industry, and has
indicated its intentions to proceed with further
financial sector reform. The second risk is mitigated by
the profitability (to the PFIs) of a full-account
relationship with their exporting client firms.
Estimated Cost:                                   Local        Foreign   Total
…tJ---   S$ mill.io      … -
Total (Subprojects) investment Cost           32.0         198.0    330.0
Financing Plan:                                   Local        Foreign   Total
------US$ millio         … -
IBRD                                            -         165.0    165.0
Participating Financial irnstitutiens         33.0          33.0     66.0
Subproject Sponsors                           99.0            -      99.0
Total                                   132.0         198.0    330.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year               1989   1990    1991    1992   1993   1994
…LI------------ US$ million --------…
Annual                        9.4   35.8    51.5    38.1   22.0    8.2
Cumulative                    9.4   45.2    96.7   134.8  156.8  165.0
Rate of Return:  Not applicable.



INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND THE EXPORT OF MANUFACTURED GOODS
A. Overview
1.1       Through the 1970s and up to 1982, Indonesia's manufacturing sector
grew rapi4ly at more than 13% p.a., while GDP increased at about 7.5Z p.a. in
real terms. By 1982, the share of the manufacturing sector in GDP had
increased to 121, from 81 in 1966. The main growth until 1975 was in the
production of consumer goods. As the scope for further growth in Lhis area
diminished (by 1975, over 90% of consumer goods was produced domestically),
the emphasis shifted to import substitution of intermediate goods such as
cement, fertilizer, synthetic fibers, and iron and steel. Although the
private sector dominated investment in the consumer goods sectors, public
investment accounted for most of the "upstream" activities.
1.2       Export expansion played a minor role in output growth; in 1982,
manufactured exports totaled only $500 million, representing 13% of non-oil
exports. The policies that initially fostered rapid growth in the
manufacturing sector eventually led to the development of many high cost and
inefficient industries. This became apparent after 1982 when the slowdown in
the domestic economy saw many enterprises carrying excess capacity and facing
severe financial distress. The initial reaction of Government Lo th.es
developments was to protect domestic producers through an increased recourse
to non-tariff barriers (NTBs), primarily in the form of import licensing
restrictions. This increased protection, together with other restrictive
domestic regulations covering trade and industrial activity, stifled
competition and impeded both foreign and domestic private investment.
1.3       In response to the deterioration in the external environment, and in
particular recognizing the need to create a competitive and dynamic non-oil
economy, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) embarked on a major adjustment
program in 1983. This program, which was intensified in 1986 following the
further fall in oil prices and the sharp depreciation of the US dollar,
consisted of four key elements:  (i) prudent fiscal and monetary policies,
including a succession of austere budgets; (ii) flexible exchange rate
management, with two major devaluations (March 1983 and September 1986); (iii)
intensified domestic resource mobilization efforts through reforms in the
financial sector (discussed in paras. 2.3-2.5) and in taxation (1984-86); and
(iv) a reform of the trade and industrial policy regime (discussed in the
section below).
1.4       The Government's adjustment program has been extremely successful in
restoring macroeconomic stability by reducing the external and fiscal
deficits, and curtailing inflation despite the very large devaluation. A
particularly striking aspect of the response to the adjustment measures has
been the surge in non-oil exports, which rose by 40Z in nominal terms and 251



in real terms during 1987. Private investment also recovered strongly in 1987
in response to improved profitability and deregulation measures. The surge in
investment was directed primarily at export activities, and is reflected in
aggregate data as well as the rapid commitment of funds under the first Export
Development Project (EDP--Loan 2702-IND, approved by the Bank in June 1986).
1.5       Despite this progress, Indonesia still faces difficult challenges.
The lower and uncertain price of oil, the large debt burden, and the need to
provide em-loyment opportunities for a rapidly growing labor fo.ce all suggest
that the Government must continue to pursue vigorously its adjustment program,
while supporting a recovery in investment. Over the medium term, the non-oil
economy must grow by at least 5% a year to absorb the growing labor force and
permit a meaningful reduction in the level of poverty. A central conclusion
of the Bank's economic analysis is that non-oil exports must more than do0le
by 1995 to enable Indonesia to meet these growth and development targets.-
Much of the export growth over the past year has come from the use of existing
capacity. Sustained growth in exports over the medium term will require.
substantial additional investment in new productive capacity and continuing
policy adjustments in the trade and industrial policy regime. The two trade
policy adjustmient loans provide needed support for the Governm'nt's ongoing
adjustment program, particularly in the area of trade policy._   The proposed
project would complement this effort by directly augmenting export capacity in
the manufacturing sector, by strengthening the ability of the financial system
to provide term loans for export development, and by providing continuing
support for the policy and institution-building initiatives on export services
and infrastructure that were embarked upon under the technical. assistance
component of the first Export Development Project.
B. Change in Policy Orientation to Increase Industrial Sector Efficiency
and Non-Oil Exports
1.6       Trade Policy Reform.  In 1985, the GOI undertook two major trade-
related reforms: first, an across-the-board reduction in both the level and
dispersion of tariffs that lowered the ceiling from 225% to 60%; and second, a
complete overhaul of customs, port and shipping operations that speeded up the
f.ow of imports and exports and significantly lowered the cost of freight
forwarding. These moves were followed in May 1986 by a package of measures
designed to provide internationally-priced inputs to exporters by giving them
access to unrestricted and duty-free imports. In addition, drawing on the
project preparation work of the Bank and the GOI under the EDP, the GOI
established a duty drawback facility that was intended to allow exporters
unrestricted duty-free access to imports. These measures were useful mecha-
nisms aimed at helping exporters overcome the cost-raising effect of high
1/   See "Indonesia:  Ad;:---ment, Growth and Sustainable Development", May 2,
1988, Report No. 7222-IND.
2/   The latter of the two loans, "The Second Trade Policy Adjustment Loan",
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 10, 1988 (Report
No. P-4794-IND).



- 3 -
tariffs and NTBs pending other reforms that would directly address the anti-
export bias of the trade regime. Overall implerntation of these measures has
been satisfactory; the executing agency (P4BM) - has functioned smoothly,
with arms-length administration and minimal delays in processing
applications. The scheme provided exporters with over US$1 billion of imports
from July 1986 through December 1987, accounting for about 6% of total non-oil
imports over that period.
1.7       Following a 31% devaluation of the Rupiah in September 1986, three
additional major reform packages were announced in October 1986, January 1987
and December 1987. These packages focused on three priority areas:
(a) removing import licensing restrictions, (b) adjusting tariffs and sur-
charges, and (c) directly reducing the anti-export bias. These three packages
made significant progress in reducing the role of import licensing restric-
tions and moving towards a trade regime based on tariff-only protection; 539
items (accounting for 31% of all items and 41Z of total import value
previously restricted) were removed from licensing control. More importantly,
the share of manufacturing productior protected by NTBs has been reduced from
49% in mid-1986 to 35% by end-1987. Morever, this reduction in import
licensing has occurred in those industrial subsectors with the highest rates
of effective protection. In a few cases, higher tariffs or surcharges have
been imposed to compensate for the removal of license restrictions; however,
the higher tariffs have conformed to the reduced tariff ceilings set in
1985. In other cases, tariffs have been lowered primarily to reduce the cost
of imported inputs not produced domestically. In December 1987, a number of
export restrictions were removed or eased: (a) the need to obtain special
export licenses was abolished; (b) several export bans and quotas were
removede and (c) access of exporters to duty-free imported inputs was
broadened. These measures will reduce substantially the anti-export bias of
the trade regime for existing exporters, thereby increasing the relative cost
competitiveness of exporters and bolstering the export drive.
1.8       Industrial Deregulation.  To complement trade policy reform, the GOI
has also taken a series of steps to deregulate the industrial sector by
simplifying and relaxing the multitude of domestic regulations and licensing
procedures that constrained the performance of the industrial sector. A start
was made in 1985 when the procedures for investment approvals were
streamlined. In 1986, the number of areas open to private foreign and
domestic investment was expanded substantially, foreign investment companies
were given greater access to domestic capital and financial institutions, and
domestic ownership requirements were eased. A number of other major steps
were taken in June 1987. As a result of these measures, firms are now allowed
to increase production by up to 30% of their licensed capacity without
requiring new investment approval. More significantly, firms have been
permitted to diversify production within much broader product categories, thus
enhancing operational flexibility and promoting greater competition. The
requirements for investment licenses were also streamlined and additional
3/   The Pusat Pengelolaan Pembebasan dan Pengembalian Bea Masur of the
Department of Finance.



- 4 -
fields of investment opened tc private and domestic Loreign investors. In
December 1987, further measures were taken to relax foreign investment
regulations: (a) domestic ownership requirements were eased significantly;
(b) restrictions prohibiting foreign-owned companies from marketing Indonesian
export goods were removed; (c) foreign firms were allowed to purchase domestic
inputs without restrictions; and (d) rules regarding the hiring of expatriate
personnel for export-oriented firms were relaxed. These steps have addressed
key concerns expressed by foreign investors in Indonesia and will reduce the
disparities in the treatment of domestic and foreign firms.
1.9       Remaining Policy Agenda.  The GOI is committed to continue deregula-
ting the economy. In the area of trade policy, a first priority is to ensure
that measures already announced are implemented effectively. The next step in
trade reform is a further elimination of import licensing, especially in areas
where such restrictions are still important and provide high protection to
domestic production. Over the medium term, with the move away from NTBs, an
important step will be to rationalize the tariff structure in order to reduce
the level of protection. To help analyze trade policy issues, and to prepare
proposals for further deregulation, a Trade and Industrial Policy Stcering
Committee (TIPSC) was recently established within the GOI. As an input to the
work of the TIPSC, the Bank financed a study on effective protection (comple-
ted in December 1987) and provided additional long-term technical assistance
under ongoing projects. In the area of industrial deregulation, additional
measures will be needed to open more sectors to unfettered foreign and
domestic investment and to simplify further the regulatory framework. The
TIPSC is conducting preparatory work to identify further steps in the
deregulation process, and Bank staff members are working with the TIPSC on a
study of industrial regulations.  Emphasia  is on four key areas:  (a) invest-
ment and capacity licensing; (b) domestic content programs; (c) regulations
affecting domestic trade: and (d) foreign investment policies. Policy changes
in these areas will have to be complemented by effective mechanisms for export
finance and well-functioning support services for exporters as discussed in
Section C below.
1.10      Recent Export Performance of the Manufacturing Sector.  The GOI's
policy reorientation has had a marked effect on exports of manufactured goods,
which increased from US$2.4 billion in 1985/86 to US$2.8 billion in 1986/87
and reached US04.6 billion in 1987/88. Manufactured exports have become the
most important source of export growth and account for about 11% of total
exports (compared to just 2% in 1980) and 48% of non-oil exports. Plywood and
textile products still dominate; they accounted, respectively, for 41% and 24%
of manufactured exports in 1987. But, a result of the greater ease and
profitability of exporting, Indonesia's manufactured export base has broadened
considerably as a variety of products, including tires, cement, fertilizer,
rattan furniture, food products and other goods, have entered the export
market in significant quantities. The primary stimulus for this export
performance has been the improvement in the international competitiveness of
Indonesian exporters, resulting from the maintenance of the competitive
exchange rate and other measures that have reduced the anti-export bias of the
trade regime. As a result of these measures and the success of Indonesia's
recent forays into export markets, the business community is developing a
long-term commitment to export that, if supported by continued improvements in



- 5 -
the overall incentive structure and in the supporting infr&structure for
exports, provides a basis for sustained export growth.
C. Building an Institutional Infrastructure to Support Export Growth
1.11      In addition to the reorientation in the trade and industrial policy
regime, and the establishment of easy and open access to export finance
(para. 2.9), the GOI's strategy for promoting the growth of non-oil exports
also calls for the development of an appropriate administrative and
institutional infrastructure. The COI feels strongly that such measures
constitute an integral part of the effort needed to ensure that Indonesian
exporters can compete in the world market on an equal footing with foreign
exporters. Thus, it has been pursuing a number of initiatives in diverse but
related areas. The most important ones are:
(a) supporting the private sector by assisting potential and existing
exporters to gain access to foreign markets and investors. In 1987,
the GOI set up an autonomous Export Support Board (ESB) to provide
assistance to exporters and an Export Support Fund (ESF--to be
managed by the ESB) to finance the technical needs of export firms
in production, marketing and related areas;
(b) upgrading quality certification standards to ensure greater
acceptability of Indonesian exports. This program promotes
(i) amendments to government regulations that encourage voluntary
export quality certification and labeling, and (ii) development of
an institutional network for quality management assistance to
enterprises; and
(c) developing infrastructure to support exporters, for example, the
establishment of free-trade zor.es, export estates, bonded warehouses
and technical training centers. Most of these measures were initia-
ted with Bank support during the preparation of the first EDP and
are now being implemented with financing from the technical
assistance (TA) component of that loan (para. 1.17).
D. The Bank's Role and Strategy in the Industrial Sector
1.12      Bank Strategy.  Since 1983, the Bank's strategy in Indonesia has
been to support the adjustment of the economy to declining oil revenues by
maintaining macroeconomic stability, and facilitating the transition from
dependency on oil to a more diversified and industrialized economy. In the
industrial sector, this strategy has focused on two interrelated areas:
(a) the trade and industrial policy regime; and (b) industrial subsector
support. In operational terms (including both lending and sector work), this
strategy translates into the following objectives:
(a) in the near term--to support the COI's efforts to deregulate trade
and industry (both in the formulation of new measures and in
ensuring the effective implementation of measures already announced)
and to establish a well-founded institutional framework for sup-
porting export growth. The recently approved Second Trade Policy



-6-
Adjustment Loan (para. 1.5) and the proposed project afford vehicles
for achieving these objectives. In particular, Bank supervision
within the context of these operations will complement the work of
the TIPSC (para. 1.9) in assisting the Ministry of Trade (MOT) to
enhance its capacity to analyze trade policy issues and, thereby,
effect a reorientation of the MOT's role from regulation to
effective export promotion; and
(b) in the medium to long term--first, to promote the development of
enterprises that can strengthen linkages in the industrial sector
and that can also contribute strongly to employment generation;
second, through a series of industrial restructuring operations
(focused upon particular subsectors, e.g., textiles, pulp and paper,
engineering, and woodprocessing), to assist domestic market-oriented
firms directly in responding to changed incentives and greater
competitive pressure, and to help public enterprises become more
efficient. An important element of the subsector operations will be
to help the GOI evolve, monitor and enforce an appropriate
environmental code of standards.
1.13      Past Bank Lending to the Industrial Sector.  To date, the Bank Group
has provided a total of US$939.1 million through 14 operations for investments
in the industrial sector through financial intermediaries. These comprise
eight DFI loans/credits (six to BAPINDO for US$367.4 million and two to the
Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI) for US$25.0 million),
three loans/credits for small enterprise development in the amount of
US$350.7 million, one credit for rural credit (for US$30.0 million), one loan
for the development of the export sector (for US$64.5 million) and one loan
(for US$101.5 million) for the KUPEDES (village loan) program of BRI. The
objectives of these operations (with the exception of the EDP) were
institution-building (of the financial intermediaries) and the financing of
economically and financially viable enterprises. Increasingly in its sector
work and project design, the Bank has sought to foster the adoption of
sectoral policies that stress the reliance on market signals. As an example,
the Bank withdrew from the subsidized BI priority credit programs (KIK/KMKP),
which it supported in three operations (Credit 785-IND, Loan 2011-IND and Loan
2430-IND), but is supporting BRI's KUPEDES rural credit program, which is
market-based with full cost recovery. More relevant experience emerged from
the EDP, which supported deregulation in the trade and industrial policy
regime by fostering a manufacturing sector that can contribute to employment
generation and growth of non-oil export earnings. The EDP provided Bank
financing for export-oriented projects through three financial institutions
and helpad establish a comprehensive framework for supporting export-oriented
enterprises. The credit component (paras. 1.15 and 1.16) has been instru-
mental in: (i) encouraging the participating banks (PBs) to extend term-
financing to exporting firms; (ii) enhancing the PBs' capabilities to appraise
term loans; and (iii) extending term financing from the PBs to all exporting
enterprises irrespective of ownership. The ongoing work under the TA
component is described in detail in para. 1.17.



1.14      Project Implementation Under the EDP.  Loan 2702-IND, in the amount
of US$64.5 million equivalent, was signed on June 26, 1986, and became effec-
tive on November 25, 1986. Through a credit component of US$51.0 million and
a TA component of US$13.5 million, this project supported Indonesia's ongoing
efforts to increase non-oil exports by: (a) increasing the productive
capacity for export-oriented activities by enhancing the availability of long-
term credit for such investments; (b) strengthening the policy and institu-
tional framework needed for export development; and (c) assisting individual
export firms with technical assistance and training. The project covered both
direct and indirect exporters. The credit component provided three of the
state-owned commercial banks (SCBs), i.e, BDN, BRI and BNI 1946, with long-
term funds to support export-oriented investments; the TA component, inter
alia, included direct assistance to about 300 export firms and supporting
institutions in marketing and related areas.
1.15      The Credit Component.  The credit line has been utilized at a much
faster pace than anticipated at the time of appraisal. In addition, the
results, in terms of increasing exports and generating employment, should also
exceed expectations.  Seventy-eight percent of the credit line was committed
during a thirteen-month period (April 1, 1987-April 30, 1988);4 originally,
it was expected that the credit line would be committed over the 27-month
period ending December 31, 1988. Disbursements are also proceeding faster
than anticipated. As of April 30, 1988, US$18.0 million had bee.a disbursed
and the credit line probably will be almost fully disbursed by the end of
1988.
1.16      As of March 31, 1988, 28 subprojects were being financed under the
EDP (Annex 1: Tables 1, 2 and 3). These subprojects (27 of which were
expansions of existing operations) had a capital investment cost of approxi-
mately US$67.8 million equivalent ex ante, and represented a 58% increase in
the asset base of project sponsors. Of this total investment cost, about 58%
was financed with Loan 2702-IND proceeds 'another 14% was financed with other
PB resources, with remaining investment costs met by project sponsors). The
average subloan size was US$1.42 million, ranging from US$215,000 to US$7.0
million, with a median of US$0.5 million. Annual sales attributed to these
investments (when operating at full production) is projected at Rp 300.4
billion (about US$182 million equivalent), 81% of which (i.e., about
US$147 million equivalent per annum) is expected to be directly exported.
Over 4,500 new jobs will be created 50 at a capital investment cost-per-job of
Rp 16.2 million (about US$9,850 equivalent). The subprojects financed are in
4/   Another eight subloan applications, in the amount of approximately
US$10.4 million, are currently being reviewed by the Bank; if approved,
the line of credit will be almost fully committed.
5/   Based on data available for 22 subprojects.



- 8 -
various sectors: ten in rattan; siX in agro-processing; seven in wood/timber;
three in textile; one in leather; and one in chemical processing.
1.17      TA for Institutional Development.  The TA component of the EDP
supports the GOI's efforts to build an institutional infrastructure that
fosters export growta. This component, which is complex and ambitious in
scope, experienced initial delays in implementation. However, the necessary
preparatory work for full implementation has now been accomplished and the
component is expected to advance satisfactorily. The various activities being
supported under this component (also refer to Annex 2) include:
(a) The Export Support Board (US$1.8 million) and the Export Support
Fund (US$6.1 million). The EDP provided US$1.8 million to the ESB
to finance advisory services and incremental operaLing costs during
a three-year operating period and another US$6.1 million for the ESF
(para. 1.11). In general, the ESB has progressed well. However,
contrary to understandings reached at negotiations for Loan 2702-
IND, it continues to operate under standard GOI administrative and
financing procedures. This is inhibiting the ability of the ESB
both to react expeditiously to demands for assistance from
exporters, and to develop, as originally intended, into a truly
autonomous institution. These procedures also affected the ESB's
capability to administer the ESF in an effective manner. This
concern was discussed with the GOI during the appraisal of the
proposed project and KOF, in liaison with the MOT and other involved
agencies,has introduced measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to
transfer funds expeditiously to the ESB in a manner that will allow
it to operate effectively and autonomously.
(b)  The Export Quality Upgrading and Improvement Program (EQUIP) of the
GOI (US$1.3 million). Funds from the EDP would assist the Stand-
ardization and Quality Control Directorate in the MOT (para. 1.11)
with consultancy assistance for: (a) feasibility studies for new
technical centers for quality assistance; (b) a study for adopting a
voluntary certification and marking system; and (c) training of
staff from quality control agencies. A contract has been signed
between MOT and consultants, and the work is currently underway.
(c)  Other Infrastructural Support/Export Related Studies (US$3.9 mil-
lion. The GOI is also imaplementing measures to improve the physical
facilities available to exporters. Proposals for a study (US$0.3
million) to investigate the feasibility of a number of export
estates in various locations in Indonesia have been approved by the
Bank. Another US$2.15 million has been provided to support the
GOI's program of analytical work on institutional support to non-oil
exporters. Studies currently in preparation include: (i) the role
of Government in the promotion and development of non-oil exports;



- 9 -
(ii) the role of trading companies in non-oil export development;
and (iii) development of an action-oriented program to increase
Ihdonesia's industrial exports. Consultants are expected to be
appointed soon to carry out these studies.
(d)  An Exporter Training Component (US$1.3 million).  Enhancing training
capacity in the area of manufactured export know-how is an important
element of Indonesia's export development strategy. For this
purpose, the EDP supports two programs: one that would provide for
the training of about 35 trainers from local training institutions
in export-related topics (e.g., export marketing, export product
development, export financing and legal aspects of foreign trade);
the other for training of exporters, including the provision of
about 40 short-term workshops for a total of 800 participants on a
broad range of export-related topics. Consultants have been
selected to initiate the programs.
(e) The EDP is also assisting the GOI to improve che export financing
system (para. 2.9).
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND EXPORT FINANCE
A. Structure, Policies and Development
2.1       The Indonesian financial sector comprises a banking system with Bank
Indonesia (BI--the Central Bank) at the apex, five SCBs, 79 private national
comm.ercial banks, 10 foreign banks, a state development bank (BAPINDO), 26
regional development banks and three non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs),
principally engaged in medium- and long-term lending and equity participa-
tion. A capital market also has begun to develop.
2.2       The five SCBs,6/ all participating in the proposed project, dominate
the commercial banking system. They control almost 40Z of total bank assets
(BI accounts for 42%) and for about 70% of the total assets of the deposit
money banks.
2.3       Until June 1983, the financial system was tightly controlled by the
authorities, with the GOI channeling its financial savings into the banking
system through low-interest B1 liquidity credits in pursuit of a variety of
development objectives. Beyond that, BI set the deposit and lending rates of
the SCBs, established credit ceilings for all banks, and guided the allocation
of credit through the liquidity credit mechanism. In June 1983, the GOI
introduced a major reform of the financial sector aimed at stimulatiixg private
financial savings, improving resource allocation, and reducing the dependence
of the banking system on BI liquidity credits. The SCBs were thus free to set
6/   These are Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI
1946), Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEII)
and Bank Bumi Daya (BBD).



- 10 -
their .espective deposit and lending rates (except for loans refinanced
through BI liquidity credits), and credit ceilings were eliminated for all
banks. In addition, the number of special priority programs qualifying for
new BI liquidity credits was substantially curtailed. Subsequently, direct BI
intervention in the day-to-day operation of the SCBs was reduced and its
direct lending to quasi-government bodies and state-owned enterprises was
replaced by lending through the SCBs. Further developments in 199M and 1985
saw the introduction of money market instruments (SBIs and SBPUs)- and
rediscount windows to assist in BI's management of overall liquidity.
2.4       These reforms resulted in sharp changes in the asset preference of
domestic savers and the lending practices of financial institutions, and had a
dramatic effect on the banking system. Interest rates increased sharply to
15-20% on deposits, representing real rates of 5-10%. Gross assets of the
organized financial sector tripled between 1982 and 1987, representing a
growth rate of nearly 23% p.a. in nominal terms. The average growth of rupiah
time deposits exceeded 40Z p.a. during the same period, thereby substantially
expanding the capacity of financial institutions to lend from their own
resources. Competition among the banks increased vigorously and, despite the
continued dominance of the SCBs, private banks currently represent the fastest
growing segment of deposit money banks, having expanded their share of total
bank lending from about 12% at end-1982 to about 24% by end-1986. In addi-
tion, the range of non-credit financial services widened with the establish-
ment of several new insurance and leasing institutions.
2.5       On December 24, 1987, the GOI introduced further measures that
focused on activating the equity markets. These included simplifying the
operation of the stock exchange, introducing an over-the-counter market to
assist small companies with the issuing of equity shares, and allowing
investment in the shares of Indonesian companies by foreign entities.
2.6       These changes have been beneficial to the development of the finan-
cial system although a number of concerns have emerged.  The most important is
the shortage of long-term investment funds, both credit and equity. Several
factors underlie the reluctance of banks to extend long-term credits. First,
the volatility in interest rates has induced banks to limit term transforma-
tion and to match the maturities of their assets and liabilities (mainly
short-term deposits) as closely as possible. Second, short-term trade-related
transactions are generally more lucrative to the banks and are perceived to be
less risky than long-term loans, particularly in view of the inefficient
mechanisms for loan recovery in Indonesia. With respect to equity markets,
the demand for securities has been depressed by the favorable tax treatment
(and therefore the attractiveness) of alternative financial instruments. Poor
auditing, accounting and public disclosure standards have also affected
7/   SBIs are Central Bank certificates and SBPUs are private sector
promissory notes held by banks and rediscounted by BI.



- 11 -
adversely the confidence of potential investors. The proper implementation of
recent measures to improve the functioning of capital market institutions,
including simplification of listing requirements and procedures, will help
strengthen the market for equities.
2.7       Other sectoral issues relate to the high and volatile real interest
rate structure, which may affect adversely both the allocation and amount of
investment credit, as well as to portfolio weaknesses experienced by some
banks (particularly in respect of official targeted loan plograms and of
import-substitution projects financed in the late seventies). Currently, real
lending rates range fromn 9% to 12%. These rates are among the highest in the
world and reflect an exchange rate premium for holding rupiah funds that is
based not so much upon fundamentals but upon slowly changing expectations.
2.8       In addition to the proposed changes in the trade and industrial
policy framework (para. 1.9), a key element of Indonesia's structural adjust-
ment strategy should be a set of supportive financial policies. A good start
has been made with the 1983 reforms. The GOI is now working with the help of
the Bank on a financial sector study designed to identify the agenda for
future policy changes. A primary objective will be the development of a more
efficient financial market that can provide potentially profitable enterprises
greater access to required debt and equity financing. That objective needs to
be supported by strong accounting, information and auditing systems,
particularly in the corporate sector. The priorities for policy action
include measures: (a) to increase the availability and lower the cost of
long-term finance, (b) to raise the volume of equity finance, and (c) to
sustain and expand efforts to meet the financing requirements of new
exporters.
B. The System of Export Financing
2.9       Short Term.  In the January 1982 Decree, the GOI announced the in-
troduction of a comprehensive system of export financing, with supporting
insurance and guarantee facilities. The Decree establishad an automatic
guarantee to banks for pre-shipment export financing, reduced the interest
rate on both pre- and post-shipment finance, provided BI refinancing of up to
85% of export credits, liberalized the payment terms on which export orders
could be accepted, and introduced a domestic letter of credit (L/C) system to
assure equal treatment of all production activities generating export value-
added. Subsequently, in line with other financial sector policy moves and
recognizing that access to (and not cost of) credit severely constrains new
exporters, the GOI started to phase out interest preferences; they are
expected to be abolished by 1990. The Bank has provided considerable support
to the GOI to prepare for the full implementation of the domestic L/C system
and related insurance and guarantee arrangements. BI has completed most of
the preparatory work (including translation of manuals and training of staff)
for introducing the domestic L/C system over the next few months, initially in
the Jakarta area and to the rest of the country by year-end. Once fully
operational, all exporters (in particular, indirect and new) will have
enhanced access to short-term export credit. The GOI also has taken measures
to improve the system for providing insurance and guarantees to the banks in
respect of export financing; in 1985, it established FT Asuransi Ekspor



- 12 -
Indonesia (PT ASEI), mainly to provide cover for (i) the risk of exporters'
nonperformance and (ii) the risk of nonpayment by the exporters' overseas
clients. Through September 1987, PT ASEI had issued guarantees covering
Rp 8.1 trillion in exports for 4,502 exporters and insurance covering Rp 400
billion in exports for 53 exporters. The Bank, through the TA componeat of
the EDP, is financing consultancy services (US$0.4 million) to strengthen PT
ASEI's institutional capability. These services will help: (i) to assess
PT ASEI's existing programs, financial position and fee structure, as well as
to identify the assistance needed to improve management, staffing, procedures
and training; and (ii) to implement recommended changes.
2.10      Long Term.  While much of the recent surge in manufactured exports
has come from existing underutilized capacity, the sustained growth of non-oil
exports will increasingly depend on new investments. To attain the projected
increase in manufactured exports aimed for by the GOI over the next five
years, annual investments estimated in the range of US$3.5-4.0 billion will be
required. Although the Indonesian financial system has done well to date in
mobilizing resources for investment, meeting this projected credit demand will
be a formidable challenge. For this reason and given the expected strong
credit demand for term investment, Indonesia is likely to require, in the next
few years, substantial additional long-term resources. The proposed project
addresses this need by increasing the long-term investment resources for
exports both by direct resource transfer and by stimulating a wide range of
financial intermediaries to provide complementary term financing (p'ira. 3.1).
C.  The Bank's Role and Strategy in the Financial Sector
2.11      The Bank's future strategy in the financial sector will be to
continue to rely on sector work (and related policy dialogue) and appropriate
project design to tackle the critical issues facing the sector, particularly
the shortfall in term investment resources--both debt and equity, and the
efficiency of financial intermediation. The financial sector study now under-
way is expected to identify time-phased priorities for future Bank operations.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Content
3.1       Project Rationale and Objectives.  A substantial transfer of
resources for financing investment in non-oil expcrt activities is now
required to meet the very positive supply response of investors to the
improved policy framework and the continued shortage of term investment
funds. The main objective of the proposed second Export Development Project
(EDP II), therefore, would be to increase productive capacity in the export-
oriented manufacturing sector by strengthening the ability of the financial
system to make term loans for projects contributing to non-oil export
development.  It would do this both by direct resource transfer and by
expanding the ranks of financial intermediaries active in term lending (at the
same time inducing them to provide complementary financing). The number of
institutions participating in the proposed project would triple that of EDP
and would include private banks for the first time in this type of lending



- 13 -
operation in Indonesia. No funds have been provided for T.. activities under
the proposed project, as the TA activities supported under EDP are funded
adequately and their effective implementation will secure the Bank's
institution-building objectives for the export sector.
3.2       Project Content.  The project would comprise a US$165 million line
of credit to meet the long-term financing needs of export-oriented capital
investments. The Bank funds would be onlent to nine participating financial
institutions (PFIs), including five SCBs, two private commercial banks and two
NBFIs (paras. 3.6-3.12), for financing eligible export-oriented investments.
Each of the PFIs initially would subscribe to a portion of the loan on which
it would pay the commitment fee. Details on relending terms, loan allocation,
and other administrative arrangements are discussed in Section C below.
3.3       Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  The criteria for subprojects
financed under the project will be essentially the same as those established
for the first EDP:
(a)  At least 40% of the production attributable to the s Oproject
investment will be exported, directly or indirectly,-  within a spe-
cified period (i.e., three years from start-up of production for
expansion or modernization/rehabilitation subprojects; five years
for new subprojects);
(b) The sponsor will demonstrate its commitment and capacity to export
project production;
(c)  The investment is financially viable and lW ll show an acceptable
internal financial rate of return (IRR).1    Since exports are not
subsidized in the present trade and industrial policy regime, this
rate would approximate the economic rate of return (ERR);
(d) The subproject will be in the industry or service sectors (e.g.,
tourism), broadly defined to include all export activities with the
exception of primary agriculture and mining; and
(e)  At least 30% of a subproject's total investment cost will be
financed with the project sponsor's own funds.
These criteria would allow financing of a wide variety of investments that
export directly or indirectly. Based on experience with the EDP, most subpro-
jects are expected to yield much higher levels of exports than the minimum
required, i.e., over 80% compared to 40% (para. 1.16). Primary agriculture is
excluded because the focus of the project is on stimulating nontraditional
9/   i.e., at least 40% of the project production is being used in the
prouuction of end-products that are eventually exported.
10/ i.e., no less than the interest rate on term-funds being borrowed by the
project sponsor. This is expected to be at least 16-17%.



- 14 -
exports that will continue to play an important role in export growth. At
negotiations, the GOI and the PFIs agreed to these eligibility criteria (para.
4.2).
3.4       Aspects to be Covered by Appraisal Reports.  All subprojects to be
financed under the proposed project will be selected and appraised by the
PFIs, which bear the credit risk on the respective subprojects. In addition
to reviewing and evaluating the managerial, financial and technical aspects of
proposed investments, the subproject appraisal reports/summaries submitted by
the PFIs to the Bank for subloan approval/authorization under the proposed
project would have to make a convincing case (with supporting data) that the
project sponsor is capable of exporting and that exports will, in fact, take
place. Supporting evidence of export likelihood, as relevant in each case,
would include: (a) for project sponsors already exporting, details on their
past export performance; (b) reference to appropriate market studies;
(c) description of already established and/or proposed marketing channels; and
(d) confirmation of any future orders already negotiated with foreign
buyers. For projects exporting indirectly, supporting evidence would
demonstrate that the required minimum percentage of the project's output would
be used in the eventual production of exports. The subproject appraisal
reports/summiaries would also show that the environmental impact of the
proposed investment has been reviewed to ensure compliance with Government
policies and guidelines, and to indicate proposed safeguards where
appropriate. Appraisal/summary report formats have been reviewed and
discussed with the PFIs.
3.5       Loan Demand for Export-Oriented Investments.  To sustain the
targeted growth rate of non-oil exports up to 1990/1991, it is estimated that
new investments of the order of US$3.5-4.0 billion per year are required
(para. 2.10). Some of this investment will be met from enterprises'
internally generated funds and direct foreign borrowings, but a substantial
part will have to be met by resources mobilized by domestic financial
institutions. On the basis of the eligibility criteria outlined in para. 3.3
above, each of the PFIs prepared a pipeline of potential subprojects that
could qualify for financing under the proposed loan. As shown in Annex 3, the
pipeline affords a reasonable certainty that a loan amount of US$165 million
could be committed well within the two-year commitment period proposed for the
project: 19 applications (total subloan amount of approximately US$37.6 mil-
lion) are currently being processed by the three PBs in the EDP; another 127
potential projects (of about US$150.3 million) have been identified by the
nine PFIs. Like the subprojects financed under the first EDP (para. 1.16),
potential subprojects identified for financing under the proposed project
reflect broad sector-diversification: about 30% are in agro-processing, 15%
each in rattan, wood/timber, light industry, and textile/shoes/leather, and
10% in other activities. Almost one-half of the potential investments are
expected to result in IBRD subloans in the amount of US$1.0 million or less;
only three investments would require IBRD subloans of more than US$5.0 million
each. Although the pipeline suggests that a substantially larger amount could
be utilized by the PFIs, both the Government and the PFIs are reluctant to



- 15 -
enter into larger commitment fee obligations. The proposed project design,
and in particular the commitment fee arrangements, are designed to promote
rapid utilization of the Bank loan.
B. Financial Intermediaries Under the Proposed Project
3.6       As mentioned in para 3.2, the financia) institutions selected to
participate in the proposed project are:  the five SCBs (BDN, BRI, BNI 1946,
BBD and BEII), two private cokuercial banks (Bank Niaga and Bank Duta), and
two NBFIs (PDFCI and UPPINDO). In addition to their interest, they are
suitable as financial intermediaries for the proposed project for a number of
reasons. One is the large resource base (about 701 of the gross assets of all
deposit money banks in Indonesia) and well-developed branch network (with over
750 branches) of the five SCBs, which enable them to provide extensive
coverage of the export commulnity. As well, the inclusion of the four private
financial institutions, which are well-managed and financially sound, will
promote competition among various segments of the financial sector and provide
export-oriented investors with a wider choice of financial institutions that
can provide term credit. Paras. 3.7-3.12 provide an overview of these
institutions. all of which were found to be suitable for participation in the
proposed project because of their policies and internal procedures as well as
their financial conditions. A more detailed analysis of these institutions is
provided in the Appendix.
3.7       The State Commercial Banks.  The five SCBs account for 75% of the
assets of the deposit money banks in Indonesia. They operate under the
guidelines of the Banking Act of 1967 and a number of other legislative
measures enacted in 1967/68 that established them in their present form. The
June 1983 financial sector reforms (paras. 2.3-2.4) had a particularly
significant impact on the SCBs: they now had to mobilize their own resources
at market rates, instead of relying on BI funding, and to improve operational
efficiency to ensure profitability in a much more competitive environment.
This presented a formidable challenge to these large, complex and, hither to,
fairly bureaucratic institutions, which had functioned more as agents of BI
than as fully independent financial institutions. The SCBs have, however,
moved rapidly to fulfilL their new role, with most conducting comprehensive
reviews and improvement programs of their organizations, internal policies,
procedures and operations, and staffing policies. Results to date from these
programs are encouraging.
3.8       One of the most positive aspects of the SCBs' participation in the
priority credit programs of BI was that BI prompted and supported the SCBs in
establishing term-lending appraisal capabilities and internal loan review
procedures. Loan applications are evaluated on the basis of comprehensive
appraisals, including full financial analysis and examinations of proposals'
managerial and technical merits. Overall, both the subproject appraisal and
the supervision procedures of the SCBs are acceptable to the Bank and will
apply to subprojects financed by the proposed Bank ioan.
3.9       The financial positions and performances of the SCBs have been found
to be acceptable. Their assets and liabilities structures are reasonably
matched.  Although BI and other GOI loans continue to account for a



- 16 -
substantial portion of the SCBs' resources, the importance of these loans has
declined over recent years; correspondingly, the importance of customer
deposits has grown. The equity base of the SCBs is relatively small, and it
is important that it be improved. The GOI recognizes that the capital base of
the SCBs needs to be strengthened, and has indicated that this is one area of
banking reform currently being considered. Two positive developments in
recent years have contributed to improved SCB profitability: one, an improve-
ment in their lending margins reflecting the impact of deregulated interest
rates; and two, a reduction in personnel and other administrative expenses.
Recent efforts undertaken by the SCBs to introduce operational efficiencies
appear to be succeeding.
3.10      Evaluating the quality of the SCBs' loan portfolio is difficult.
Monitoring the aging of arrears is not a standard procedure within the SCBs
(although some of them are in the process of introducing this system). All
the SCBs, however, regularly set aside provisions to cover losses on their
respective loan portfolios and write off bad debts.  As of end-1987, the SCBs'
combined provision for bad dr¢Lx constituted 4Z of their outstanding loan
portfolios. The SCBs' financiaL accounts are audited by the Government's
Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP) which has found them
acceptable.
3.11      The Private Commercial Banks.  Bank Niaga and Bank Duta are two of
the ten private commercial banks operating in Indonesia that are licensed to
deal in foreign exchange. These two banks were selected on the basis of their
financial performance and because they do not form part of any large
industrial group or conglomerate. Like all commercial banks in Indonesia,
they are strictly and regularly supervised by BI. Overall, 8I's supervision
is primarily aimed at ensuring that the banks are sound and comply with the
general banking regulations. In addition to ensuring that the banks' annual
accounts are audited by independent and reputable auditors, BI makes its own
independent checks. The designation of a bank as a "foreign exchange bank"
indicates that the bank's management, financial structure and banking
practices are considered superior by BI.
3.12      The Non-bank Financial Institutions.  PDFCI and UPPINDO are two
relatiytly small development finance companies that are classified as
NBFIs._   By law, they cannot take customer deposits or operate checking
accounts, and this interdiction has restricted their ability to mobilize
resources independently. Most of their funding has come, therefore, either
from their own equity resources or special BI liquidity credit lines. The two
NBFIs are supervised by the MOF. Both have been active in financing small- to
medium-sized industrial enterprises and are now active in promoting and
financing export-oriented investors, The participation of these NBFIs in the
proposed project would enable them to strengthen further their export
Il/ PDFCI has benefitted from earlier Bank Group assistance (para. 1.13).



- 17 -
promotion efforts and diversify their resource bases. Both have developed
strong pipelines of medium-size exporting projects in diverse subsectors
(Annex 3) and both have the appraisal and other procedures (including procure-
ment), and organization necessary to ensure their effective participation in
the proposed project. Both PDFCI and UPPIkIDO have private external auditors
that are acceptable to the Bank.
Project Administration within the PFIs
3.13      Each PFI will designate a team at its headquarters in Jakarta to be
responsible for overseeing the identification, processing, and monitoring of
subloan applications (and respective disbursements/reimbursements) under the
project. Experience gained unlar Loan 2702-IND shows that members of these
teams must be actively involved in both the early identification of "eligible
subprojects" and the preparation of subloan applications for submission to the
World Bank to expedite project implementation. Individuals selected to head
these teams need to be familiar with the internal credit processing system and
project appraisal/credit evaluation techniques of the respective PFI, and
should have a basic understanding of the World Bank's appraisal, disbursement
and monitoring procedures.
3.14      To facilitate project implementation, the Bank will conduct, prior
to effectiveness of the proposed loan, a five-day seminar for the PFIs' staffs
responsible for the day-to-day coordination and administration of the EDP II
program within their respective institutions. Each PFI has agreed to send
two-to-three participants to the seminar; chat would ensure program continuity
within each PFI, even if staffing changes occur during project implementa-
tion. In addition to clarifying standard administrative practices of the
Bank, the seminar would cover the project's legal framework, subproject
appraisal requirements, IBRD subloan disbursement and reimbursement proce-
dures, and project monitoring/reporting.  Experience from the EDP would serve
as a major focus of seminar discussions. The seminar would be conducted by
the World Bank, with the assistance of BI's International Department (which
would have the responsibility fo 12nitially processing the PFIs' reimbursement
applications under the project).       PFIs in the EDP II confirmed, at
negotiations, who they will send to the seminar (para. 4.2).
C. Overall Project Costs and Financing
3.15      Total project cost, estimated at US$330 million (Rp 544.5 billion),
represents the cost of the approximately 110 export-orientid subprojects to be
financed by the PFIs during 1988- 1990. The foreign exchange component would
be US$198 million, or 60Z of the total. The estimated total cost of the
project is based on the average cost of the subprojects financed under the EDP
(para. 1.16). The project pipelines prepared by the PFIs, and reviewed by the
12/ These arrangements have been confirmed with the Indonesian Banking
Development Institute (LPPI). The proposed seminar would be held during
the week of July 25-29, 1988, at LPPI. The fee of Rp 480,000 per
participant (covering full board and lodging) would be met by the PFIs.



- 18 -
appraisal mission, indicate that similar subprojects would be financed under
the proposed project (para. 3.5). A sumnary of project costs, as well as the
financing plan, is given in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign       Total
Project Costs
Total (Subprojects) Investment Costs        132.0       198.0        330.0
Financing Plan
IBRD                                           -        165.0        165.0
Participating Financial Institutions         33.0        33.0         66.0
Subproject Sponsors                          99.0          -          99.0
Total                                   132.0        198.0        330.0
Overall, the proposed Bank loan of US$165 million would finance 50% of total
project costs and 83% of estimated total foreign exchange requirements. The
PFIs would finance US$66 million, or 20% of project costs, while subproject
sponsors would finance the balance of US$99 million, or 30% of project costs.
D. Features of the Loan
3.16      Lending and Allocation Arrangements.  The proposed Bank loan of
US$165.0 million will be lent to the the Republic of Indonesia on standard
country terms. The MOF will act as the Government's agent. A separate pro-
ject account will be established at BI (on behalf of MOF) to record (i) the
channeling of the Bank loan to the individual PFIs, and (ii) debt service pay-
ments received from them. The Government would onlend the loan proceeds to
the PFIs as follows:
(a) At negotiations, each of the PFIs agreed to subscribe to a portion
of the loan based on the amount of funds it expects to commit over a
two-year period and on which it would pay the commitment fee, such
that the loan amount is fully subscribed. (These allocations could
later be adjusted as per para. 3.19.) The initial allocations are
as shown in Table 3.2 below.



- 19 -
Table 3.2: PROPOSED INITIAL ALLOCATION OF
LOAN PROCEEDS AMONG THE PFIs
(US$ million)
PFI                                  Amount
SCBs:
BBD                                           15
BDN                                          40
BEII                                         10
BNI 1946                                     15
BRI                                          30
Total SCBs                               110
NBFIs:
PDFCI                                        20
UPPINDO                                       10
Total NBFIs                               30
Private Banks:
Bank Duta                                     15
Bank Niaga                                    10
Total Private Banks                       25
TOTAL Amount                             165
(b) Funds to the SCBs will be lent by MOF through Subsidiary Loan
Agreements (SLAs) with each institution. Funds to the private banks
and to the NBFIs will be lent in the first instance by MOF to BI,
through a separate SLA between MOF and BI. This SLA essentially
will limit Bi's role to that of a channeling agent between MOF and
these institutions.l-  BI will then relend these funds to the
private banks and the NBFIs through respective onlending loan agree-
ments (OLAs) between RI and the respective PFIs. Loan proceeds
onlent to the PFIs would be for a fixed term of 15 years including
three years cf grace. The GOI negotiating team brought to
Washington draft SLAs between (i) MOF and the SCBs, and (ii) MOP and
BI; and (iii) draft OLAs between BI and the NBFIs and pr.vate banks,
which were reviewed and approved during negotiations. All PFIs will
sign a Project Agreement with the World Bank outlining their obliga-
13/ This at _ngement is needed since the MOF cannot lend directly to
nongovernment or nongovernment-owned institutions.



- 20 -
tions in implementing the proposed project. Signing of the SLA
between HOF and BI, and between MOF and at least three SCBs (on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank) will be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 4.4).
However, signing of an SLA/OLA (on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank) is a condition of disbursement for each PFI (para. 4.5). The PFIs will
use the loan proceeds to finance eligible export-oriented projects as defined
in para. 3.3. These funds are expected to cover a two-year commitment period
with the final date for the submission of requests for subproject financing
being December 31, 1990.
Lending Terms
3.17      Interest Rate.  The PFIs will pay e variable interest rate equal to
the weighted average cost of their depositi.<.xcl.ding noninterest-bearing
deposits from GOI and GOI-owned entities).        B sed on December 1987 data,
this arrangement would result in a relending rate to the PFIs of about 12%
p.a., which is highly positive in real terms. The rate would be adjusted
every six months and would be subject to a floor equal to the rate on the Bank
loan plus a minimum spread of 1.75%. (See Annex 4 for the formula.) Govern-
ment will assume the direct foreign exchange risk against a fee built into the
differential between the Bank's prevailing interest rate and the proposed
onlending rate to the PFIs (currently about 5%). Since deposit rates in
Indonesia are market-determined and capital flows are generally unrestricted,
the formula indirectly includes a variable element to cover the foreign
exchange risk as perceived by the currency markets; the difference between the
Bank's lending rate and the relending rate to the PFIs charged by OI is
therefore considered an acceptable premium for bearing the foreign exchange
risk. BI will be responsible for calculating the onlending rate to the PFIs
on the basis of the most recent data available to it. At negotiations, the
GCI's agreement to these interest rate provisions, as well as to the method
and frequency of interest rate calculations, was confirmed (para. 4.3).
3.18      Onlending Terms.  The proceeds of the Bank loan, along with comple-
mentary financing out of their own resources, will be onlent to the final
borrowers by the PFIs at market rates. Since the onlending rate set by the
PFIs will reflect their costs plus a profit margin, the premium for foreign
exchange risk paid to OI by the PFIs will be fully passed on to the final
borrowers. Present indications are that the interest rates to the final bor-
rowers initially will be in the range of 19-21%.  The maximum term for
subloans, including the grace period, will be 15 years. Rollover funds (i.e.,
the repayments on Bank-financed subloans) would be relent by the PFIs for
similar export-oriented investments. Agreement on these onlending terms were
reached during negotiations (para. 4.3).
3.19      Commitment Fee and Commitment Arrangements.  Each of the PFIs will
be responsible for paying to the GOI the commitment fee equal to 0.75% of the
14/ Excluding UPPINDO and PDFCI, which are not deposit-taking institutions.



- 21 -
undisbursed portion of the amount of the loan to which it has subscribed.
However, to encourage the PFIs to promote export-oriented investments and to
facilitate utilization of the loan proceeds, GOI would have the right, eigh-
teen months after the loan became effective and after consultation with the
Bank, to reallocate among those PFIs that had fully committed their respective
initial allocations (and which still had subprojects eligible for financing
out of the Bank loan) any remaining uncommitted amounts. From the date of
such a reallocation, the PFIs would be obli,,ated to pay the commitment fee on
the undisbursed amount of their respective new allocations; there would be no
retroactive adjustment of commitment fee obligations. However, should GOI and
the PFIs so agree, voluntary reallocations of loan amounts among the PFIs
could take place prior to the expiration of the aforesaid eighteen-month
period; in such cases, commitment fee obligations would be appropriately
adjusted.
3.20      Free Limits, Individual Subloan Limits and Subproject Review.  A
subproject free limit of US$1.5 million is proposed for the three PFIs that
participated in the EDP; for the other PFIs, the initial subproject free limit
will be US$0.5 million. After the Bank has reviewed and approved the
appraisal standards of three subprojects from each of the new PFIs, their free
limits could be increased to US$1.5 million on a case-by-case basis. Individ-
ual subprojects financed out of the proposed project could have a total
investment cost not exceeding US$25.0 million. To ensure that a broad
spectrum of subprojects is financed under the proposed loan, individual sub-
loans would not exceed US$10.0 million. A minimum subloan size of US$100,000
would apply. Based on the experience of the EDP (para. 1.16), it is expected
that the project will finance about 110 projects in a variety of sectors, with
subloans amounting to about US$110 million being reviewed by the Bank.
Loan Administration
3.21      Procurement.  Efficient procurement in the private sector in
Indonesia is ensured through the highly competitive market operating in an
open economy where sophisticated commercial purchasers solicit various bids to
obtain reasonable quotes. Although the PFIs do not have formal procurement
requirements, they do require clients to justify their procurement decisions,
often requiring them to provide comparative price quotations. Under the
proposed project, the PFIs would require qualified enterprises to demonstrate
that the procurement procedures adopted by them are appropriate. The PFIs
would also ensure that the goods and services would be purchased at a reason-
able price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery, efficiency and reliability of goods, their suitability for the
proposed investments and the availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them. These procedures are consistent with principles
for Bank financing through financial intermediaries and ensure that procure-
ment is economic and efficient. Each subproject appraisal report/appraisal
summary would discuss how the proposed investment's goods and serviceb are to
be procured and confirm that these procedures are acceptable to the PFI.
3.22      Disbursements.  The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) for
civil works, 50Z of expenditures (which is equivalent to their estimated



- 22 -
foreign exchange component); (b) for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures, 901
of 1ical expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 60% of other locally procured
items; and (c) for services, 100% of expenditures. For subloans of
US$1.0 million and less, statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be used;
subloans above US$1.0 million would be disbursed against standard documenta-
tion. For subprojects disbursed under SOE procedures, full supporting docu-
mentation would be retained by the PFIs and made available for Bank inspection
during supervision.
3.23      Funds provided to the PBs under the EDP have almost been fully
committed (para. 1.15). To encourage continuity in the promotion of export-
oriented investments (paras. 1.15 and 3.5), the Bank will provide a limited
amount of retroactive financing under the proposed project. Eligible sub-
projects approved by the PFIs between February 22, 1988 (date of appraisal),
and the date of loan signing will be eligible for such financing, provided
that procurement is consistent with agreed arrangemert.s under the project;
however, the aggregate amount for disbursements in respect of eligible
expenditures made before the date of loan signing will be limited to 10% of
the total loan amount, with each PFI initially limited to 10% of its respec-
tive allocation. Based on the experience of the first EDP, the loan could be
disbursed in about three years; however, a disbursement period of six years
has been assumed for the project, based on the standard disbursement profile
for IDF projects in the Asia Region (Annex 5).  The closing date for the loan
thus would be June 30, 1994.
3.24      Auditing and Reporting.  The SCBs' financial accounts and SOE docu-
mentation would be audited by the BPKP, which is acceptable to the Bank.
Auditing of the private banks and the NBFIs' financial accounts and SOE docu-
mentation would be done by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
PFIs would submit to the Bank the reports of their respective external
auditors (in English) no later than nine months after the end of their respec-
tive fiscal years. These audit arrangements were confirmed at negotiations
(para. 4.2). The PFIs would also be required to submit semi-annually progress
reports, acceptable to the Bank, covering their respective operations under
the project.
E. Project Benefits and Risks
3.25      Benefits.  The proposed project would enhance the capacity of the
financial system in Indonesia to meet the term investment needs of exporters,
both by augmenting the availability of term investment funds and by encourag-
ing the PFIs to undertake complementary term transformation for export-
oriented investments. The direct benefits would be increases in non-oil
exports and employment generation. About 110 subprojects with a total invest-
ment cost of US$330 million are expected to be financed by the proposed loan.
Based on past experience, this is likely to lead to increases of about US$700
million per annum in non-oil exports and to provide 33,000 new jobs.  The
proposed project would demonstrate the Bank's commitment, and provide ongoing
support, to the effective implementation of the policy and institution-
building initiatives being undertaken under the TA component of the EDP (Loan
2702-IND). It would demonstrate also the Bank's continuing support for the
deregulation measures being taken by the GOI, particularly in the area of



- 23 -
trade and industrial policy. In this regard, the institutional focus of the
project provides an esse:xtial complement to the policy focus of the two Trade
Policy Adjustment Loans.
3.26      Risks.  The main risks the project faces are:  (i) possible domestic
opposition to the full implementation of already announced measures and to
efforts for introducing additional complementary measures; and (ii) the
possibility that the PFIs restrict their term lending activities to the amount
of funds being provided under the Bank loan. These risks are small; the GOI
has already demonstrated its ability to implement sensitive policy measures
(paras. 1.6-1.9 and 2.3-2.5) and has indicated its intentions to proceed with
further deregulation, including in the financial sector (paras. 1.9 and 2.8).
Further, the response of non-oil exports to changed incentives so far has been
very positive. The second risk is mitigated by the fact that the export
business of firms is quite profitable to the PFIs; they are likely to seek to
extend needed term financing to exporting clients from their own resources to
ensure they can develop a full-account relationship with these clients.
Overall, therefore, project risks are outweighed by the benefits arising from
(i) the fundamental changes in policy, (ii) institution-building efforts that
would be indirectly supported by the project, and (iii) the project's direct
contribution to increases in non-oil exports and new employment opportunities.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1       Prior to negotiations, MOF, MOT and other involved agencies
introduced procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for expeditiously transferring
funds to ESB in a manner that will allow it to operate more flexibly and
autonomously (para. 1.17).
4.2       During negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached with
the PFIs on:
(a) the eligibility criteria for subprojects (para. 3.3);
(b)  the responuibilities of the PFIs' respective project administration
units (para. 3.13);
(c) the participation of the staffs of the PFIs' project administration
units in the familiarization seminar (para. 3.14);
(d) the onlending terms to subborrowers (para. 3.18);
(e) the use of rollover funds for export-oriented projects (para. 3.18);
(f) the free-limit, maximum subloan, and maximum project investment
provisions (para. 3.20); and
(g) the arrangements for annual audits and semi-annual reports
(para. 3.24).



- 24 -
4.3       During negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached with
Government on the lending terms to the PFIs (para. 3.17).
4.4       The signing of SLAs, satisfactory to the Bank, between GOI and at
least three SCBs, and between  OI and BI (para. 3.16) is a condition of
effectiveness.
4.5       The conditions of disbursement are:
(a) for each SCB, the signing of an SLA, satisfactory to the Bank, with
the MOF (para. 3.16); and
(b) for each private bank and NBFI, the signing of an OLA, satisfactory
to the Bank, with BI (para. 3.16).
4.6       Subject to the above conditions, the project would be suitable for a
loan of US$165 million to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including a
grace period of five years, at the standard variable rate.



- 25 -                               Appendix
Page 1
THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIs) UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. The Five State Commercial Banks
1.        Background and Development.  The five SCBs operate under the guide-
lines of the Banking Act of 1967 and a number of other legislative measures
enacted in 1967/68 that established the SCBs in their present forms. All were
given the objective of furthering national economic development and allowed to
operate in most sectors of economic activity. Each, however, was assigned a
particular sector or sectors to which it should give priority: BDN--mining
and industry; BNI 1946--industry; BRI--agricultural and rural credit;
BBD--estates and forestry; and BEII--trade financing. This sectoral
specialization was difficult to implement because of customers' reluctance to
change banks; increasingly, therefore, the SCBs have competed among themselves
and with other banks for both loans and deposits.
2.        The evolution of the SCBs was strongly influenced by the role and
policies of BI. While the 1967 Banking Act delegates to BI responsibility for
the guidance, control and supervision of all financial institutions, the role
of BI in the Indonesian economy has been much broader than that of a tradi-
tional central bank. It has taken the lead in furthering national development
by directly financing public enterprises and by promoting special credit
programs (providing refinancing facilities) to banks, thus enabling them to
finance investments in priority sectors. In this way, BI has been a very
important source of funds to the commercial banks, particularly the SCBs,
which have had unres,tricted access to all BI facilities (until the June 1983
financial sector reforms). These policies encouraged the SCBs to develop
term-lending capacities. In this they were strongly supported by BI, which
set up a project appraisal department to monitor the appraisal quality of the
individual banks and helped provide training programs on project evaluation.
However, the preferred position of the SCBs, particularly their access to BI
funding and BI's regulation of most of the interest rates they could charge
(until 1983), effectively insulated them from competition and diminished the
stimulus for these banks to emphasize operational efficiencies.
3.        With the June 1983 reforms, the SCBs were suddenly called upon to
mobilize substantial resources for lending purposes directly from the public
and to operate efficiently and profitably in an increasingly competitive
market. Since then, they have been in an ongoing process of reviewing their
respective strategies, operational policies, internal management and informa-
tion systems, and operational costs, in an effort to become more efficient.
BNI 1946 has recently completed, and is in the process of implementing, a
major organizational reform program. BDN also has implemented recently an
organizational and systems improvement program. With financing out of Loan
2430-IND, BRI engaged a consulting firm of international repute: (i) to carry
out an in-depth evaluation of its organization, operations and product
profitability/strategy; and (ii) to recommend institutional, operational and
marketing/strategy changes. The ensuing action plan is now being imple-
mented. Both BBD and BEII have also obtained the assistance of large multi-
national banks to help them improve specific aspects of their operations.
These efforts reflect a strong commitment on the part of the SCBs towards
developing efficient, modern, full-service, commercial operations.



- 26 -                               Appendix
Page 2
i4.        Organization, Management and Staffing.  Each of the five SCBs has
its head office in Jakarta and operates an extensive branch network. As shown
in Attachment 1, these banks together had 754 branches (plus an additional 201
auxiliary branches/cash offices) as of December 31, 1987, ranging from 56 for
BEII to 299 for BRI (three of the SCBs also have regional offices). Total
employees number,d slightly less than 51,200--ranging from 4,370 for BEII to
19,660 for BRI._' The organizational structure for each SCB is basically the
same: a Board of Managing Directors comprises the President-Director and
three-to-four Managing Directors, all appointed by Government for five-year
(renewable) terms. These Boards are responsible for implementing general
policy guidelines issued by the MOF and BI, and are in charge of the day-to-
day management of their respective banks. Each bank has a Supervisory Board
(Government-appointed) which oversees the Board of Managing Directors.
5.        The Credit Process.  In each of the SCBs, loan applications are
initiated at the branch level (in certain instances, large corporate clients
deal directly with the head office in Jakarta). Branches are responsible for
the initial evaluation of a loan application and compiling all supporting
documentation. Loan approval authority, however, remains essentially central-
ized. The Branch Manager's appr2lal authority is very limited, ranging from
Rp 50 million to Rp 200 million - (about US$30,000-122,000 equivalent).
Where loan applications are processed through the Regional Office, the
Regional Manager's approval authority is limited to loans not exceeding Rp 300
million (or approximately US$185,000 equivalent). At Jakarta headquarters,
the approval authority of the head of respective credit departments varies
from Rp 300 million to Rp 500 million (about US$185,000-303,000). All loans
exceeding these amounts must go to the Board. However, none of the SCBs
operates a formal loan or credit committee. Agaifi depending on the loan
ambunt, what constitutes Board Approval ranges from a single Managing
Director's signature to the signatures of the full Board.
6.        Project appraisal and loan evaluation procedures are well-
established in the SCBs. Although formats vary from bank to bank, the
information, documentation and analysis required is basically the same. Loan
applications are evaluated on the basis of standard creditworthiness criteria
including the capability of the entrepreneur, the financial position of the
enterprise, market prospects, and collateral. For investment loans exceeding
Rp 500 million, audited financial statements and a feasibility study are
normally required as part of the client's loan application. With respect to
the technical (including procurement) and environmental aspects of a project
proposal, the SCBs place considerable emphasis on the experience dnd reputa-
tion of the project sponsor and the accompanying feasibility study; if
technical issues/questions uo arise, outside consultants are engaged directly
by the banks for advice. Following GOI directives for large projects, the
1/   These figures exclude BRI's 2,338 Unit Desas (village subbranches) which
employ almost 12,000 people. (Refer BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project,
Report No. 6579-IND dated April 7, 1987.)
2/   On an outstanding basis, i.e., including the loan application amount.



- 27 -                               Appendix
Page 3
PFIs normally require an environmental impact analysis and identification of
measures to be underteken by project sponsors to bring proposed operations in
compliance with environmental standards and regulations. This environmental
impact analysis would also form part of the appraisal requirement for
subprojects submitted under the proposed project.
7.        While full appraisals and evaluations are done by the branches, they
are reappraised once received in Jakarta head offices. This is seen as a
necessary quality-control measure. Analysts in the head offices (college
graduates with economics/finance degrees who have generally received addi-
tional in-house and outside training) generally are better trained than their
branch counterparts.
8.        Responsibility for loan and project supervision rests primarily with
the branch in charge of the client account. Branches are required to report
monthly on project status and account movements. Supervision of corporate
loans, however, takes place through almost daily scrutiny of account movements
as well as through regular on-site visits, with the more important loans and
investments also supervised by the head office credit departments. These
appraisal and supervision procedures are acceptable to the Bank and will apply
to subprojects financed out of the proposed Bank loan.
9.        Financial Position.  The composite financial positions of the SCBs
over the period 1985-87 are summarized in Attachment 2 (individua' supary
balance sheets for the five banks are available in the Project File)._
During the three-year period, total SCB assets grew by 76%, from Rp 23.3 tril-
lion as of December 31, 1984, to Rp 41.0 trillion (US$24.8 billion equivalent)
as of December 31, 1987, with individual growth rates for the five banks over
this period varying between 47% and 103Z. This rapid growth reflects the
impact of the June 1983 financial sector reforms.
10.       As shown in Table i below, loans account for approximately 67Z of
total assets (representing a slight increase over the corresponding figures of
63% and 62Z for 1985 and 1986, respectively), with slightly less than half
(46.4%) of the loan portfolio classified as term.
3/   Because the historical development of the five SCBs (paras. 1 and 2) has
regulated in considerable similarity in their basic financial positions
and financial performance, the ensuing analysis has been done on an
aggregate basis.



- 28 -                               Appendix
Page 4
Table 1: SUMMARY OF SCBs' LENDING AND BORROWING OPERATIONS, 1984-87
(Rp billion)
1984        1985         1986         1987
Total Assets                        23,337.9    28,249.0    36,232.6    40,966.2
Total Loan Portfolio /a             15,209.3    17,727.6    22,516.9    27,509.6
Long-term                                       8,453.2    10,876.3    12,769.9
Short-term                                      9,274.4    11,640.6    14,739.7
Total Borrowings                    20,49:.3    25t482.5    32,440.9    36,976.1
Long-Term                          6,064.6      7,087.0     8,618.6      9,693.5
Time deposits                                   743.4       930.6        756.8
BI & other gov't loans                       5,332.2      6,960.1      8,205.5
Other                                 -       1,011.4        727.9        731.2
Short-Term                        14,428.7    18,395.5    23,822.3    27,282.6
BI loans                                     3,015.8      3,596.3      4,293.9
Customer deposits                           15,198.5    19,934.3    22,801.1
Demand                                     5,019.2      5,428.6      5,738.2
Time                                       9,369.2    13,466.7    15,934.5
Savings                                      810.1      1,039.0      1,128.4
Other                                           181.2       291.7         187.6
Total Equity                           753.4        759.2      1,073.5      1,534.2
/a   Before provision for bad debts.
The incremental volume of credit extended by the SCBs during this three-year
period amounted to Rp 12.3 trillion including Rp 2.5 trillion in 1985, Rp 4.8
trillion in 1986, and Rp 5.0 trillion in 1987. Short-term notes, securities
and placements accounted for another 23% of total assets, while other long-
term investments (including equity participations) accounted for less than
1.5%. Adjusting for the extent of BI liquidity and government funding, the
SCBs' loan-to-deposits ratio in 1987 was 64%, which is sound. The assets and
liabilities structures of the SCBs, on a composite basis, seem reasonably
matched; as of December 31, 1987, 67.6% of total assets were short-term
compared to 72.5% of total liabilities (i.e., about 8% of the SCBs' long-term
assets are financed with short-term liabilities). While this level of term
transformation is prudent and provides room for expansion, it also demonst-
rates the need for additional term resources if the SCBs are to increase their
term lending activities. Although BI and other GOI loans, most of which
represent channeled and directed funds, continue to account for a substantial
portion of the SCBs' resources (especially long-term), the importance of these
loans has been diminishing in recent years--from about 39% of total
liabilities in 1982 to 30% by 1987.



- 29 -                               Appendix
Page 5
11.       The equity base of the SCBs is relatively small for two reasons:
first, the amount of authorized capital as established under Law Nos. 18-22 of
1968 was very small (ranging from Rp 200-500 million for each of the SCBs) and
has not been increased; and second, because the OI appropriates 45Z of annual
net (after tax) profits, the SCBs have had difficult in building up their
respective capital bases through retained earnings. The GOI recognizes that,
consistent with the thrust of the financial sector reforms initiated in 1983,
the capital base of the SCBs needs to be strengthened, and has indicated that
this is one area of banking reform currently under consideration.
12.       Financial Performance.  Aggregated income statements for the period
1985-87 are summarized in Attachment 3 (income statements for the individual
SCBs are available in the Project File), with an overview of the SCBs'
composite financial performance presented in Table 2 below.
Table 2: INDICATORS OF SCBs' FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1985-87
1985           1986         1987
Average Total Assets (Rp billion)            25,793.5       32,240.8      38,599.4
Average Loan Portfolio (Rp billion)          16,468.5       20,122.3      25,013.3
Average Borrowings (Rp billion)              22,987.9       28,961.7      34,708.5
Average Equity (Rp billion)                     756.3          916.4       1,303.9
As a x of Average Total Assets
(a) Income from lending                           7.25           6.75          7.69
(b) Other income                                  3.65           5.73          3.69
(c) Gross income                                 10.90          12.48         :1.38
(d) Financial expenses                            6.95           6.54          6.94
(e) Gross spread (c-d)                            3.95           5.94          4.44
(f) Salary and personnel expenses                 1.36           1.49          1.10
(g) Administrative expenses                       0.96           0.87          0.88
(h) Provision for bad debts                       0.88           2.21          1.15
(i) Profit before tax                             0.75           1.37          1.31
(j) Net profit                                    0.45           0.87          0.87
Return on Average Total Equity (Z)               15.36          30.45         25.65
Lending Margin
(kJ  income trom lending as a X of               11.36          10.81         11.87
average loan portfolio
(1) Financial expenses as a Z of                  7.80           7.28          7.72
average borrowings
(m) Spread on lending (k-I)                       3.56           3.54          4.15
Cumulative Provision for Bad Debts as
a Z of Outstanding Loan Portfolio               3.80           3.84          3.97



- 30 -                               Appendix
Page 6
Net profit as a percentage of both average total assets and aver.-_ -
equity improved significantly in 1986 and 1987. Wihile "other inic.'r,
particular, windfall profits resulting from the September 1986 d           :   -f
the rupiah) accounted largely for the improvement in 1986, tuere werei t;.o
positive developments that contributed to the 1987 performance: es
improvement in the SCBs' lending margin reflecti-g the impact oi deriguiat.'
interest rates (4.15% in 1987 compared to 3.562 and 3.54X in 1995 aAd '986,
respectively); and a reduction in (i) salary and personnel expenses as wed i1
(ii) other administrative expenses--1.98% of average total assets in 1937
compared to 2.32% in 1985 and 2.36% in 1986. During this period, the SCBs
managed to reduce their total staff by 400 (from 51,600 to 51,200) whilf.
expanding their branch offices by 54 and their auxiliary branches/cash offices
by 40. Recent efforts by the SCBs to improve operational efficiencies
(para. 3) thus appear to be bearing results.
13.       Portfolio Quality.  The five SCBs classify their respective loan
portfolios, as required by BI, on the basis of collectibility (i.e., regular,
often late, special attention and liquidation). As shown in Attachment 4, as
of December 31, 1987, about 94% of SCB loans were classified as regular, with
only 4.4% classified as doubtful (requiring special attention or for liquida-
tion). However, since the criteria used in classifying "regular" accounts are
not clearly specified, the classification of accounts is a relatively subjec-
tive exercise. Aging of arrears is not a standard procedure within the SCBs.
Some of them, however, are in the process of introducing this system,
initially on a pilot basis. All the SCBs regularly set aside provisions to
cover losses on their loan portfolio and write off bad debts. As of
December 31, 1987, the SCBs' combined provisions for bad debts constituted 42
of their outstanding loan portfolios. Since the direct credit risk on A
substantial portion of the SCBs' loan portfolio (i.e., essentially that
portion financed out of BI liquidity credits, around 40%) is carried by
Government, the level of provisions compared to their own risk assets is
considerably higher.
B. The Two Private Commercial Banks
Bank Niaga
14.       Ownership, Organization and Management.  Bank Niaga was established
in 1955 with an authorized share capital of Rp 15.0 billion, of which Rp 14.4
billion is paid up. Ninety percent is held by private shareholders end 10X by
BI. It has fourteen branches: seven in Jakarta, six in other major
Indonesian cities and one in Los Angeles. Bank Niaga's activities are
supervised by a Board of Commissioners which also establishes the bank's broad
operating guidelines and policies. The Commissioners are appointed by the
shareholders and serve for a term of up to two years. The day-to-day
management of the bank is entrusted to a Board of Directors comprising the
President Director and two other Directors. All three are experienced
bankers. The bank has a total of 1,280 employees.



Appendix
-  31  -                               Page 7
15.       Lending Procedures.  Processing of credit applications is the
responsibility of the branches. Credit applications are reviewed on the basis
of standard creditworthiness criteria with detailed cash flow analysis being
required for all investment loans. All credit applications not exceeding the
branch's discretionary limit are processed and finalized at the branch level;
for credit amounts above this limit, applications are processed by the branch
Account Officer, reviewed by the branch credit committee and submitted to the
head office in 4akarta for action. At the head office, credit applications
are reviewed by a credit committee which is authorized to approve loans of up
to Rp 1 billion. Applications for credit amounts of Rp 1-2 billion are
referred to the senior Vice President in charge of credit, who makes the final
decision in consultation with any one of the three Directors. Loans of over
Rp 2 billion require approval of the President of the bank and at least one of
the other two Directors. Maximum exposure in a single company is limited (by
BI regulations) to a maximum of 15% of the bank's share capital plus reserves,
currently amounting to Rp 3.8 billion. The maximum loan maturity is five
years (exceptions must be approved by the Board of Supervisors). Bank Niaga
usually requires borrowers to provide collateral security of up to 150% of the
value of the loan amount; on a selective basis, regular clients may be
required to provide security covering only 80-100% of the loan amount.
16.       Financial Position.  During 1985-87, Bank Niaga's total assets
increased almost threefold--from Rp 278.5 billion to Rp 781.2 billion at end-
1987 (Attachment 5). As of December 31, 1987, Bank Niaga's outstandir.g loan
portfolio of Rp 610.8 billion constituted the bulk (78.2%) of total assets;
one-third of this portfolio was long-term, i.e., with maturities of more than
one year. Marketable securities and other short-term placements accounted for
another 7% of Bank Niaga's asset base. Short-term customer deposits account
for over 88% of Bank Niaga's total borrowings. BI liquidity credits, Bank
Niaga's only other term resources (apart from equity), represented less than
6% of total borrowings (corresponding figures for the end of 1985 and 1986
were 6.6% and 7.4%, respectively). Over the past three years, loans outstand-
ing as a percentage of deposits has been slightly less than 100%; adjusting
for BI funds, the corresponding percentage has been around 91%. This pattern
is similar to that of other private banks which, due to their small branch
networks, are generally net borrowers in the interbank money market (which has
been very active since June 1983). Following an infusion of paid-in capital
of Rp 4.5 billion in 1986, Bank Niaga's total book equity (including reserves)
had increased to Rp 25.4 billion by end-1987. This represented a relatively
high book capital to asset ratio of 30:1. Bank Niaga'a level of capitaliza-
tion, however, is within BI guidelines, which are based on a risk-weighing of
assets. Also, Bank Niaga's accounting policies, particularly regarding fixed
assets, tend to underestimate the value of assets and thus constitute an
element of hidden reserves. The proposed allocation of US$10.0 million for
Bank Niaga represents about two-thirds of its book capital base and 2.0% of
its end-1987 asset base.
17.       Financial Performance.  As shown in Attachment 6, net income during
the past three years has been satisfactory--amounting to 1.2% of average total
assets and over 30% of average total equity. Ninety-five percent of Bank
Niaga's total gross income is attributed directly to its loan portfolio. In
addition to maintaining a good quality portfolio (para. 18), Bank Niaga has



- 32 -                               Appendix
Page 8
been successful in recent years both in maintaining adequate lending margins
and in keeping operating expenses (i.e., all expenses less financial) under
control. As a percentage of average total assets, operating expenses declined
from 5.3% in 1985 to 5.2Z in 1986 and 4.8X in 1987.
18.       Portfolio Quality.  The quality of Bank Niaga's portfolio is good.
As of December 31, 1987, 852 of the loans were classified as problem-free, 112
as substandard and 4Z as potential write-offs. Bank Niaga regularly reviews
the performance/status of all loans; those classified as substandard and
potential write-offs are reviewed on a continuing b:ssis. The branches have
primary responsibility for follow-up of their portfolios and are required to
submit monthly reports to the head office on progress made towards improving
the performance of these loans. Provisions against doubtful loans during each
of the past three years have averaged about 0.6% of the outstanding loan port-
folio (annual write-offs have averaged about 0.4%). As of December 31, 1987,
the cumulative provision for bad debts amounted to Rp 3.6 billion, or 0.6Z of
the outstanding loan portfolio.
Bank Duta
19.       Ownership, Organization and Management.  Bank Duta was established
in 1966 with an authorized share capital of Rp 15.0 billion, of which Rp 13.5
billion is paid up. Seventy percent is held by private shareholders and
thirty percent by a GOI-owned holding company. Bank Duta has a total of ten
branches and a staff of 1,056. Three of these branches are in Jakarta; the
other seven are in the cities of Medan, Pontianak, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang,
Bandung and Batam. The bank is headed by a Supervisory Board consisting of
four members, all senior officials of the GOI. The Supervisory Board, which
meets four times a year, deals essentially with broad policy matters. The
day-to-day management of the bank is vested in a Board of Directors comprising
the President Director and three Directors. All four Directors are
professional bankers.
20.       Lending Procedures.  Credit applications are processed by the Credit
Department either at the head office or at the branch level, depending on the
size of the credit. Each branch office has a credit limit that depends on the
size of the portfolio handled by the branch as well as the experience of the
management of the branch. All credit applications up to the branch discre-
tionary limit are processed by the branch Account Officer and are decided upon
by the branch Credit Committee without reference to the head office. For
credit amounts above the branch limit, applications are processed by the
branch Account Officer, reviewed by the branch Credit Committee and sent to
head office for final action. The applications are further reviewed by the
head office's Credit Committee, which can approve or decline applications for
credit amounts of up to Rp 250 million. Applications for credit amounts of
Rp 250 million to Rp 500 million are referred to the Credit Director for
decision. The Credit Director can approve or decline credit applications
within this range, but his decision requires ratification by the President
Director. All applications for credit amounts of Rp 500 million and above are
referred to the President Director for decision. Under BI regulations, the
maximum amount that Bank Duta can lend to any singlr company is Rp 4.9 billion
(or 15% of its total equity). Borrowers are required to provide security of
at least 100% of loan amounts.



- 33  -                               AAppendix
Page 9
21.       Financial Position.  As of December 31, 1987, Bank Duta had total
assets of Rp 709.7 billion (US$430 million equivalent), having grown at an
average annual rate of about 22% during the past three years (Attachment 7).
Loans constitute the bulk of Bank Duta's assets--almost 75Z as of end-1987
(compared to 77% and 69Z as of end-1985 and end-1986, respectively), with
marketable securities and other short-term placements accounting for another
9%. Bank Duta's loan portfolio as of end-1987 amounted to Rp 518.9 billion.
Term loans (over one year) represent 18% of total loans outstanding (the same
as of end-1985 and end-1986). However, a large number of the short-term
loans, after annual reviews, are rolled over for a further twelve months.
Customer deposits (with maturities of less than one year) are the main source
of funds for financing Bank Duta's lending operations, accounting for almost
81% of total borrowings; term resources (mainly BI funds) account for less
than 12Z of total borrowings. Bank Duta's assets and liabilities structure is
reasonably matched: as of December 31, 1987, 85.5% of total assets were
short-term compared to &9.7% of tctal liabilities (essentially the same as of
end-1985 and end-1986). Over the past three years, loans outstanding, as a
percentage of deposits, has been around 100%; adjusting for BI boerowings,
this loan-to-deposits ratio has improved modestly from 95% as of end-1985 to
87% as of end-1987. Bank Duta's allocation of US$15.0 million (which
represents less than 4% of its end-1987 asset base) under the proposed project
would allow it not only to provide term investment funds to its clients, but
also to expand its term lending operations while maintaining a reasonable
matching of assets and liabilities as well as a prudent loan-to-deposits
ratio. Following an increase of Rp 3.5 billion in paid-in capital in 1987,
Bank Duta's debt-to-equity ratio was 20.8:1 as of end-1987. Although on the
high side, this ratio is acceptable for a commercial bank like Bank Duta which
is engaged mainly in short-term trade-related and collateralized lending.
22.       Financial Performance.  As shown in Attachment 8, Bank Duta's annual
net income during the past three years has been steady, ranging between Rp 5.7
billion and Rp 6.7 billion (a re.urn of about 25% on average total equity).
As a percentage of average total assets, net (after tax) income has been
satisfactory although it has declined from 1.5% to 1.1% during 1985-87. Two
major factors contributed to this decline: first, annual personnel and
general administrative expenses increased significantly over the three-year
period (from Rp 11.4 billion in 1984 to Rp 23.4 billion in 1987) as a direct
result of Bank Duta's expansion of its branch network from four branches and
two subbranches in 1984 to 10 branches in 1987; and second, as a result of the
economic recession that started in 1982, Bank Duta prudently increased
provisions and corresponding write-offs in 1986 and 1987 to reflect that part
of its portfolio which it recognized as potentially unrecoverable. On the
positive side, Bank Duta's gross spread (total income less financial expenses)
as a percentage of average total assets, improved from 6.0% in 1985 to 6.5% in
1987. In addition, Bank Duta has improved its lending margin 4' from 5.3% in
1986 to 7.2% in 1987.
4/   Income from lending as a percentage of average loan portfolio less
firqncial expenses as a percentage of average borrowings.



- 34 -                               Appendix
Page 10
23.       Portfolio Quality.  Bank Duta's portfolio is classified into four
categories: A--Very Secure, B--Good Condition, C--Fair Condition and
D--Doubtful. As of December 31, 1987, 252 of the portfolio was classified as
A, 60Z as B, 10% as C and 5X as D. Loans in the D category are reviewed
monthly, those classified as C every quarter, and the rest every six months.
Overall, the quality of the portfolio is satisfactory. Each branch has
primary responsibility for supervision of the loans in its portfolio. Overall
loan portfolio supervision activities, however, are coordinated by the Branch
Credit Supervision Group at the head office comprising two senior managers.
In addition to overseeing the supervision of the loan portfolio, particularly
of loans classified as doubtful, the group also supervises the activities of
the branches.. Bank Duta regularly makes provisions against doubtful loans
(which are effectively written off each year), with such provisions made in
respecc of the portion of loans classified as D that is considered potentially
unrecoverable. Annual write-offs during 1986-87 represented about 1.5Z of
average loan portfolio.
C. The Two Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs)
Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI)
24.       PDFCI was established in 1973 with the active cooperation of BI and
the Bank Group through (i) an IFC equity participation of US$482,000 (8X of
initial capital) and (ii) an IDA credit of US$10.0 million (Credit 436-IND)
which became effective in 1974 when PDFCI commenced operations. This was
followed by a Bank loan of US$15.0 million (Loan 1363-IND) in 1977. The
objective in setting up PDFCI was to strengthen the financial system in
Indonesia with the addition of a predominately privately owned development
finance company that would provide private sector enterprises with a wider
range of financial and technical services than those previously available to
them. These goals proved difficult for PDFCI to achieve for a number of
reasons: (i) since it could not take customer deposits, PDFCI could not
develop its own independent resource base and was thus continuously dependent
on BI for its resources; (ii) in 1979 the GOI, in a policy change, stated that
it was no longer prepared to guarantee borrowings from multilateral
institutions other than for institutions fully owned by GOI, thus effectively
cutting off PDFCI from further Bank borrowing; and (iii) in the restrictive
financial environment that prevailed until June 1983, PDFCI (like other
privately owned institutions) was at a disadvantage compared to its state-
owned competitiors. The Bank's Project Completion Report "Indonesia--Private
Development Finance Company of Indonesia--PDFCI (Loan 1363-IND)," prepared in
June 1985 detailed PDFCI's institutional development and relationship with the
Bank Group until 1983. It found that, despite not meeting its broader
objectives, PDFCI had developed into a small but well-managed DFI that had to
turn to short-term money market related activites in order to survive. The
June 1983 reforms and the recent reversal in GOI policy regarding the
participation of non-GOI entities in the proposed project, therefore provide
PDFCI with a new opportunity to renew its relationship with the Bank Group and
to increase its term-lending activities in line with its original objectives.



- 35 -                               Appendix
Page 11
25.       Ownership.  PDFCI's authorized share capital is Rp 7 billion of
which Rp 4.54 billion has been paid in. Presently, Indonesian shareholders
own 68% of the paid in equity (of which BI holds a half, i.e., 34% of total
paid-in equity). The rest is held by private shareholders. PDFCI's total
equity as of December 31, 1987, amounted to Rp 19.0 billion including reserves
and retained earnings.
26.       Organization, Management and Staffing.  PDFCI's Board of Directors,
which comprises 12 members, meets monthly. It lays down policy guidelines and
has ultimate responsibility for all credit decisions. Loan approval authority
has been delegated however to the Executive Committee of the Board, which
comprises seven Board members. The Board Chairman is also PDFCI's full time
Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He is a well respected executive, who was
formerly a sinior official of BI and is currently a prominent business leader
(he is also the Chairman of the ESB). PDFCI's management structure consists
of the CEO, a managing director and two deputy managing directors who oversee
eight department heads (for each of the following departments: Finance and
Accounts, Project Appraisal East Indonesia, Project Appraisal West Indonesia,
Project Supervision I, Project Supervision II, Money and Capital Markets,
Research, and Legal) and a Secretary of the Board. The total staff of PDFCI
now stands at 97, of whom 54 are professional.
27.       Operating Policies, Project Appraisal and Supervision Procedures.
PDFCI's Development Strategy Statement and the Statement of Operational
Policies, adopted in the context of earlier Bank operations, remain valid and
provide a sound basis for PDFCI's involvement in the proposed project. Inter
alia, these set limits on exposure per client both for loans and equity.
Appraisal of projects is based solely on the basis of demonstrated financial,
technical and economic viability. PDFCI does not take the foreign exchange
risk in its operations. Projects are normally appraised by teams consisting
of a financial analyst/economist, an engineer and a lawyer, and reviewed by a
loan committee (consisting of the department heads) before being submitted to
the Executive Committee of the Board for final decision. As part of its
effort to improve the quality of its loan portfolio, PDFCI has set up a
special unit headed by a Deputy Managing Director to take charge of all
problem projects.
28.       Operational and Financial Performance.  PDFCI's total assets have
grown rapidly, from about Rp 170 billion at end-1985 to Rp 210.8 billion at
end-1986 and Rp 247.5 billion at end-1987. The fastest growth was in loans
outstanding, which increased by 25% in 1987 to Rp 81.3 billion. Overall,
however, loans still represent only 33% of total assets. Attachments 9 and 10
suummarize PDFCI's balance sheets and income statements, respe-.ively, during
1985-87.  Although it was PDFCI's objective principally te provide term



- 36                                 Appendix
Page 12
financing, its inability to mobilize resources independently of BI following
curtailment of access to Bank loans, led it to concentrate on money market and
short-term lending operations to survive. These operations have contributed
60% of PDFCI's income in the last three years.
29.       With the change in financial sector policy, and particularly with
renewed access to World Bank resources, PDFCI's management is placing
increasing emphasis on term lending operations, especially for export-oriented
projects. Thus, in 1987, PDFCI increased approvals for term loans by 64% over
1986 levels (from Rp 29.6 billion to Rp 48.4 billicn). For the same period,
commitments (on a net basis) increased by 35X (from Rp 21.7 billion to Rp 29.2
billion) and disbursements increased by 67% (from Rp 19.1 billion to Rp 31.3
billion). PDFCI has not been very active in equity investments. The main
resource for PDFCI's lending is a line of credit from BI. PDFCI's total
income grew from Rp 25.5 billion in 1986 to Rp 36.7 billion in 1987, mainly as
the result of a sharp increase (of 56%) in interest income on short-term
operations. Although average borrowing costs also increased (from 8.67% to
9.53% of average total assets) in line with rising interest rates, PDFCI
widened its gross spread by almost 40% from 4.72% to 6.58% of average total
assets. In 1987, PDFCI's net income after tax amounted to 2.53% of average
total assets. Net profit represented a return on average equity of 34.6%
compared to 25.1% the previous year. PDFCI's long-term debt to equity ratio
in 1987 stood at 3.7:1, which is sound.
Portfolio Quality and Provisions
30.       With the onset of the recession in the early 1980's, PDFCI
experienced considerable portfolio problems. This led PDFCI's management in
1984-1986 to concentrate on restructuring and consolidation. Today, PDFCI's
term loan portfolio condition is satisfactory, although there is room for
improvement. The total term-loan portfolio outstanding as of December 31,
1987, amounted to Rp 81.3 billion in 91 projects, of which Rp 14.5 billion was
in respect of 11 projects still under implementation. Of a total of 105
projects, 77 were problem free, including 18 projects which had been
previously rescheduled. These problem free projects represented Rp 63.7
billion (or 80% of total loans outstanding). A further 10 projects with
outstandings of Rp 7.8 billion (10% of total) had minor problems or delays.
Eighteen projects (of which seven had been previously rescheduled) had serious
problems and arrears. PDFCI's exposure on these loans amounted to Rp 8.65
billion, or 10% of the total loan amount outstanding. Collections performance
has improved over the past two years: collections of interest and principal
in 1987 amounted to 64% of billings compared to 56% in 1985 and 59% in 1986.
Overdue principal (by 8 months or more) amounted to Rp 6.8 billion, or 9% of
total outstanding term loans. PDFCI has constituted loan loss provisions of
Rp 4.01 billion, which represent 5% of total outstanding term loans and 3% of
total risk assets. Considering the collateral PDFCI holds and its relatively
strong capital base, these provisions are adequate.



- 37 -                               Appendix
Page 13
PT Indonesian Development Finance Company (UPPINDO/IDFC)
31.       Establishment and Objectives.  The IDFC was established under the
name "PT Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia" (UPPINDO) in 1972 by BI and
the Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries (FMO) with the
objective of supporting the development of the Indonesian economy by financing
(through loans and equity) and providing technical assistance to commercially
viable projects. UPPINDO's authorized share capital is Rp 20 billion of which
Rp 17.2 billion has been paid in. BI holds 75% of the capital and FMO the
remaining 25%.
32.       Management, Staffing and Organization.  UPPINDO operates under the
usual Ladonesian two-tier board system. The Board of Supervisory Directors,
which comprises the Chairman (who is also a Managing Director of BI) and four
other members, lays down policy guidelines, is responsible for all credit
decisions, and supervises policy execution by the Board of Managing Directors,
which is responsible for the day-to-day management of UPPINDO and the execu-
tion of policy directives. The Board of Managing Directors consists of the
President Director and one Managing Director. It has also been delegated the
authority to decide on investments of up to Rp 1 billion to a single client
and a one time repeat financing to the same client of another Rp 500 million
maximum. Four Deputy Managing Directors oversee Operations (divided into East
and West Indonesia), Finance and the Company Secretariat, the Research
Functions and the Legal Functions. UPPINDO has no branches but operates a
small liaison office in Surabaya. At the end of 1987, UPPINDO employed 125
staff of whom 65 were professional. UPPINDO relies on both inhouse and
external courses for its staff development program.
33.       Policies and the Credit Process.  UPPINDO's statement of "General
Principles of Management and Investment Policy" (held on file) details the
company's objectives and management policies. It also establishes investment
principles that stipulate that UPPINDO shall only fund financially and
economically viable projects and should not take token investments or a
controlling interest in any project/client company. It also sets maximum
exposure limits for any one clien': at  25% of UPPINDO's net worth (which
currently means a maximum exposure per client of Rp 5.8 billion). This
statement provides a sound basis foe UPPINDO's participation in the proposed
project. UPPINDO does not normally take on foreign exchange risk in its term
lending operations. UPPINDO's Business Development Department is responsible
for the identification of new projects and screening of applications. This
Department submits a brief report on the merits of each project to the
responsible Managing Director, who then decides whether to proceed to a full
appraisal. If the p:oject is to be appraised, it is assigned to'a Project
Officer who would lead the appraisal team and be responsible for supervision
if the project is approved for financing. The appraisal report is reviewed by
a management meeting consisting of the President Director, General Manager and
respective Deputy Managing Director. The Deputy Managing Directors are
authorized to approve loans up to Rp 500 million. The Board of Managing
Directors can sanction loans up to Rp 1 billion.  All loans above Rp 1 billion
have to be sanctioned by the Board of Supervisory Directors. These
procedures, as well as the appraisal format and standards of UPPINDO, are
satisfactory for the participation of this development finance company in the
proposed project.



- 38 -                              Appendix
Page 14
34.       Operations, Financial Position and Performance.  A sunmmary of
UPPINDO's balance sheets and income statements for the period 1985-87 are
shown in Attachments 11 and 12, respectively. UPPINDO's main activity has
been term lending together with complementary short-term financing, including
for export-related transactions. Total loans, therefore, account for 66% of
total assets and interest on loans for 72% of total income. In 1987, UPPINDO
approved a total of 58 term Loans for an amount of Rp 73.6 billion (compared
to 50 term loans for Rp 44.5 billion in 1986). Term loan commitment in 1987
amounted to Rp 56.8 billion for 46 projects (compared to Rp 42.9 billion for
58 projects in 1988). Total disbursements amounted to Rp 54.1 billion in 1987
(compared to Rp 42.3 billion in 1986). As of December 31, 1987, UPPINDO's
total long- and medium-term loan portfolio amounted to Rp 94.5 billion while
short-term loans (including the current portion of term loans) amounted to
Rp 34.9 billion.  urrINDO's equity investments are small, with a total of
Rp 2.3 billion invested in 12 companies. This compares to total assets of
Rp 199.0 billion. The bulk of UPPINDO's remaining assets are short-term
interest-bearing promissory notes from other financial institutions. BI is
UPPINDO's most important funding source. In 1987 it provided 47% of total
resources and 86% of total long-term debt. The other long-term debt resources
were provided through FMO and two foreign banks. Equity provided 12% of total
resources. UPPINDO funded its short-term activities mainly through short-term
money market borrowing. Total income in 1987 represented a return of 14X on
average total assets. Profit before tax at Rp 5 billion represented 3% of
average total assets. Net profit after tax at Rp 3.1 billion represented a
return on equity of 14.3%, a positive return in real terms. UPPINDO's overall
financial structure is sound with a balanced assets and liabilities structure
and a long-term debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 as of end-1987, far below the
policy guidelines limit the debt-to-equity ratio to 14:1.
35.       Portfolio and Provisions.  Since the early eighties, UPPINDO's
management has concentrated its efforts on tackling portfolio problems that
emerged with the onset of the recession in 1982. A special unit to take
charge of problem projects was set up for the purpose. Portfolio performance
showed considerable improvement in 1987. Problem free loans account for about
78% of the portfolio. Another 3X of loans have minor problems. The other 19X
have have arrears of interest or principal of more than one month. The total
amount of principal in arrears over 3 months is Rp 12.9 billion, representing
about 9.6% of total risk portfolio. About 15 projects account for the bulk of
the loans in difficulty. All were import substitution-oriented projects that
were hard hit by the devaluation of the rupiah since 1983. As of December 31,
1987, UPPINDO had provisions for losses on its loan and equity portfolio
amounting to Rp 3.7 billion, representing 3% of its risk assets.



INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks
Organizational Data. 1985-87
('umber)
1985                                            1986                                             1987
Auxiliary                                       Auxiliary                                        Auxiliary
Regional    Full       branches/                Regional    Full        branches/                Regional    Full       branches/
SCB            offices   branches  cash offices   Staff        offices   branches  cash offices   Staff         offices   branches  cash offices   Staff
BRI la            15        295           27        18,986         15       297           42        19,445         15        299           51        19,660
BNI 1946          11        197           56        12,860         11       199           68        11,882         11        207           76        11,682
BED                -         80           48        7,629           -        82           43         7,809          -         89           39         7,802
BDN               11         73           30         7,713         11        82           35         7,683         12        103           35         7,654
BEII               -         55            -         4,434          -        56            -         4,371          -         56            -         4,371
Total        37       700          161        51.622         37        716          188        51,190         38        754         201        51,169
/a  Numbers do not include:
(1)  No. of Unit Desas        3,563                                           3,499                                            2,338
(2)  No. of Unit Desa
employees            12,954                                           12,315                                          11,967



Appendix
- 40 -                              Attachment 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks /a
Summarized Balance Sheets (Agregated), 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1984         1985         1986         1987 /b
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                       -         401.5        496.5        512.7
Due from Bank Indonesia                            -         678.7        949.5      1,471.8
Due from other banks                               -         400.2        907.0        297.5
Notes/securities/short-term placements             -       7,775.7      9,166.7      9,299.8
Short-term loans                             9,953.1       9,274.4    11,640.6    14,739.7
Less:  reserve for bad debts                       -         308.9        383.9        586.4
Net Short-Term Loans                             -      8,965.5    11,256.7    14,153.3
Other current assets                               -       1,484.5      1,822.5      1,970.7
Subtotal current assets                          -     19,706.1    24,598.9    27,705.8
Lon&-Term Assets
Long-term loans                               5,256.2      8,453.2    10,876.3    12,769.9
Less:  reserve for bad debts                       -         364.0        480.2        521.1
Net Long-Term Loans                              -      8,089.2    10,396.1    12,248.8
Equity participation                               -          29.0         39.2         68.9
Other investments                                  -         117.6        859.8        510.5
Subtotal long-term portfolio                     -      8,235.8    11,295.1    12,828.2
Net fixed assets                                   -         241.4        300.4        384.0
Other                                              -          65.7         38.2         31.7
Subtotal long-term assets                        -      8,542.9    11,633.7    13,243.9
Total Assets                              23,337.9    28,249.0    36,232.6    40,949.7



AVp' _nuuL
- 41 -                           Attachment 2
Page 2
1984        1985         1986         1987 /b
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                              5,105.7     5,019.2      5,428.6      5,738.2
Time deposits                                5,628.6     9,369.2    13,466.7    15,934.5
Savings deposits                               567.3       810.1      1,039.0      1,128.4
Accounts payable                                  -        678.4        868.2      1,078.4
Liquidity credits from BI                    2,814.3     3,015.8      3,596.3      4,293.9
Due to other banks                                -         181.2       291.7        187.6
Other current liabilities                         -      1,328.9      1,850.0      1,377.5
Subtotal current liabilities                    -     20,402.8    26,540.5    29,738.5
Long-Term Liabilities
BI liquidity credits                              -      4,829.5      5,868.5      6,654.9
Loans from BI                                     -         186.0       297.9        421.2
Government loans                                  -         316.7       793.7      1,129.4
Time deposits                                     -        743.4        930.6        756.8
Other                                             -       1,011.4       727.9        731.2
Subtotal long-term liabilities            5,064.6      7,087.0      8,618.6      9.693.5
Equity
Paid-up capital /c                                -         200.9       259.3        264.6
Reserves                                          -        403.4        456.5        655.9
Retained earnings                                 -         154.9       357.7        597.,
Subtotal equity                             753.4        759.2      1,073.5      1,517.7
Total Liabilities and Equity                    -     28,249.0    36,232.6    40,949.7
/a  BNI 1946, BDN, BBD, BRI and BEII.
/b  Provisional (unaudited).
/c  Rp 1.55 billion of which represents authorized, paid-in capital from the Government;
remaining amounts essentially represent conversion of BI liqudity credits to capital
contribution.



- 42 -                            WApendix
Attachment 3
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks /a
Audited Income Statements (Agregated), 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1985        1986         1987 /b
Income
Interest
On loans                                     1,658.2     1,943.4      2,673.5
On notes/securities/placements                 694.4       816.1        860.4
Other                                            4.7         46.1        47.2
Subtotal interest                          2,357.3      2,805.6      3,571.1
Commissions and fees                             212.5        232.8       257.3
Foreign exchange transactions /c                 147.0        876.3       281.7
Other operating income                            71.4         74.1       245.5
Subtotal operating income                  2,788.2      3,988.8      4,355.6
Nonoperating income                               23.8         35.1         37.6
Total Income                               2,812.0      4,023.9      4,393.2
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                 1,792.0     2,108.2      2,679.3
Salaries and other personnel expenses            351.2       480.0        425.4
Other operating and misc, expenses               194.5        210.5       250.9
Depreciation                                      26.8         39.1        48.7
Provision for bad debts                          227.5        711.8        443.1
Nonoperating expenses                             26.1         31.1        40.7
Total Expenses                             2,618.1      3,581.7      3,888.1
Net Income Before Taxes                       193.9       442.2        505.1
Less:  Provision for taxes                          77.7        163.2        170.6
Net Income                                   116.1       279.0        334.5
/a BNI 1946, BDN, BBD, BRI and BEII.
T7 Provisional (unaudited).
T7 Includes net windfall income resulting from the September 1986 devaluation
of the rupiah.



- 43 -                               Attachment 4
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks
Loan Portfolio Quality - Collectibility. 1985-87
(Rp billion)
Classification of portfolio
Regular       Often late   Special attention   Liquidation            Total
1985
BNI 1946    3,730  (97.1)    30  (0.8)            64   (1.7)        16  (0.4)      3,840  (100)
BDN          3,051  (91.6)   168  (5.1)          101   (3.0)        10  (0.3)      3,330  (100)
BRI          3,974  (92.0)   114  (2.7)          196   (4.5)       34  (0.8)       4,318  (100)
BBD           n.a.           n.a.               n.a.             n.a.               n.a.
BEII          n.ea.          n.ea.              n.a.             n.a.               n.a.
Total   10,755  (93.6)   312  (2.7)           361   (3.2)       60  (0.5)    11,488  (100)
1986
BNI 1946    4,759  (97.6)    38  (0.8)            68   (1.4)         8  (0.2)      4,873  (100)
BDN          3,467  (90.0)   228  (5.9)          134   (3.5)       21  (0.6)       3,850  (100)
BRI          4,502  (94.4)    93  (2.0)          168   (3.5)         4  (0.1)      4,767  (100)
BBD          4,240  (84.9)   140  (2.8)          472   (9.5)      140  (2.8)       4,992  (100)
BEII          n.a.           n.o.               n.a.             n.a.               n.a.
Total   16,968  (91.8)   439  (2.7)           842   (4.6)      173  (0.9)    18,482  (100)
1987
BNI 1946    5,857  (97.7)    37  (0.6)            78   (1.3)        26  (0.4)      5,998  (100)
BDN          4,593  (93.2)   223  (4.5)          107   (2.2)         7  (0.1)      4,930  (100)
BRI          5,412  (94.0)   124  (2.2)          189   (3.3)        27  (0.5)      5,752  (100)
*        BBD          5,309  (89.8)    40  (0.7)          399   (6.8)       162  (2.7)      5,910  (100)
j        BEII          n.a.            n.a.              n.a.              n.a.              n.ea.
Total   21,17±  (93.7)   424  (1.9)           773   (3.4)      222  (1.0)    22,590  (100)
Notes:  (1)  Figures in parentheses are percentages of the total loan portfolio
(2)  n.a. - not available.



- 44                               Attachment 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Niaga
Summarized Balance Sheets, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1984        1985         1986         1987 /a
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                                  3.9          5.1         5.6
Due from Bank Indonesia                                      23.7        25.6         35.6
Due from other banks                                         33.5         34.6         0.4
Notes/securities/short-term placements                       29.2        52.8        100.0
Short-term loans                               161.0       203.4        273.5        377.4
Less:  reserve for bad debts                                  1.2          2.9          3.0
Net Short-Term Loans                                     202.2        270.6        374.4
Other current assets                                          4.9         9.1         91.1
Subtotal current assets                                  297.4        397.8        607.1
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                                 58.4         74.2        101.5       204.4
Less:  reserve for bad debts                                  0.4          0.8         0.8
Net Long-Term Loans                                        73.8       100.7        203.6
Equity participation                                          0.6          1.9         2.1
Subtotal long-term portfolio                              74.4        102.6        205.7
Net fixed assets                                              4.3          5.5         7.3
Other                                                         0.8          1.7         3.3
Subtotal long-term assets                                 79.5        109.8        216.3
Total Assets                               278.5       376.9        508.4        781.2



4                               Attchent 5
Piage 2
1984        1985         1986         1987
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                                 56.8         72.6         98.3        123.9
Time deposits                                  151.9        193.6       268.0        483.7
Savings deposits                                 7.3         12.2         18.3        21.2
Accounts payable                                              7.6         12.0         13.0
Liquidity credits from BI                        3.0          3.6          9.0          /b
Due Lo other banks                               08          35.0         29.0        4T.4
Other current liabilities                                    18.5         28.4        30.0
Subtotal current liabilities                              343.1        463.0        716.2
Long-Term Liabilities
BI liquidity credits                                         18.4         24.2        39.6
Subtotal long-term liabilities                 15.0         18.4        24.2         39.6
Equity
Paid-up capital                                               9.9         14.4        14.4
Reserves/retained earnings                                    5.5         6.8         11.0
Subtotal equity                                13.9         15.4        21.2         25.4
ToLal Liabilities and Equity                              376.9        508.4        781.2
/a Provisional (unaudited).
/b Included in long-term Bl liquidity credits.



- 46 -                        t-ppendix
Attachment 6
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Niaga
Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1985        1986         1987 /a
Income
Interest
On loans                                        57.3         70.8        109.6
On notes/securities/placements                   2.0          2.1          3.2
Subtotal interest                              59.3         72.9        112.8
Commissions and fees                               2.4          3.5          5.9
Foreign exchange transactions                      0.6          1.8          2.4
Other operating income                             0.4          0.6          0.3
Total Income                                   62.8         78.8        121.4
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                    39.2         44.0         75.9
Salaries and other personnel expenses              8.9         11.1         15.6
Other operating and misc. expenses /b              8.6         11.8         15.3
Provision for bad debts                            1.2          3.3          2.6
Total Expenses                                 57.9         70.2       109.4
Net Income Before Taxes                         4.9          8.6         12.0
Less:  Provision for taxes                           1.6          3.0          4.3
Net Income                                      3.3          5.6         7.7
/a Provisional (unaudited).
76 Includes depreciation.



- 47 -                             Appendix
Attachment 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Duta Ekonomi
Audited Balance Sheets, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1984        1985         1986         1987 /a
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on ha.,d                                                3.5          4.5          7.4
Due from Bank Indoneci&                                     28.2         33.3         36.6
Due from other banks                                        22.6         60.6         54.4
Notes/securities/short-term placements                      34.4         47.3         65.2
Short-term loans                              233.6        284.2        299.4        425.6
Less:  reserve for bad debts                                 0.1          0.3          0.6
Net Short-Term Loans                                      284.1        299.1        425.0
Other current assets                                         8.1         10.2         14.2
Subtotal current assets                                   380.9        455.0        602.8
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                                 0.0         64.5         70.2         93.3
Less:  reserve for bad debts                                 /b           /b           /b
Net Long-Term Loans                                        64.5         70.2         93.3
Equity participation                                         1.3          2.0          2.0
Other investments                                            0.5          0.5          0.5
Subtotal long-term portfolio                               66.3         72.7         95.8
Net fixed assets                                             5.3          5.7          5.9
Other                                                        0.4          0.9          0.9
Subtotal long-term assets                                  72.0         79.3        102.6
Total Assets                                 391.4        452.9        534.3        705.4



- 48 -                              Appendix
Attachment 7
Page 2
1984        1985         1986         1987
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                                 78.1        113.0        127.9       169.1
Time deposits                                  182.3       209.0        238.5        338.8
Savings deposits                                 1.9          3.1         4.5          5.5
Accounts payable                                              3.5        36.0         11.6
Due to other banks                              44.3         40.7        36.1         48.7
Other current liabilities                                   21.0         30.5         25.5
Subtotal current liabilities                              390.3        473.5        599.2
Long-Term Liabilities
BI loans                                                     41.2        39.4         73.8
Subtotal long-term liabilities                 35.0        41.2         39.4         73.8
Equity
Paid-up capital                                              1QnO         loe0        11.5 
Reserves                                                      3.8         4.8          6.8
Retained earnings                                             7.6         6.6         12.1
Subtotal equity                                27.0        21.4         21.4         32.4
Total Liabilities and Equity                              452.9        534.3        705.4
/a Provisional (unaudited).
7b Reserves included in reserves for short-term loans above.



- 49 -                         Appendix
Attachment 8
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Duta Ekonomi
Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1985        1986         1987 /a
Income
Interest
On loans                                        44.7         52.4        74.1
On notes/securities/placements                   8.4          7.5         9.0
Other                                            2.4          3.0         3.7
Subtotal interest                              55.5        62.9         86.8
Commissions and fees                               4.0          4.7          5.7
Foreign exchange transactions                      4.6          5.0          1.7
Other operating income                             1.0          2.8          4.3
Subtotal operating income                      65.1        75.4         98.5
Nonoperating income                                0.0          0.1          0.0
Total Income                                   65.1        75.5         98.5
:          Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                    39.7         45.3        58.2
Salaries and other personnel expenses              7.9          8.1        10.0
*             Other operating and misc. expenses /b              5.5          7.3         13.4
Provision for bad debts                            1.8          5.7          6.3
*             Nonoperating expenses                              0.1          0.1          0.0
Total Expenses                                 55.0        66.5         87.9
Net Income Before Taxes                        10.1          9.0        10.6
Less:  Provision for taxes                           3.7          3.3          3.9
Net Income                                     6.4          5.7         6.7
/a Provisional (unaudited).
T7 Includes depreciation.



-50 -                         Appendix
Attachment 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PDFCI
Audited Balance Sheets, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1985        1986         1987 /a
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                     1.2          1.5          1.6
Notes/securities/short-term  placements         97.6        129.2       138.6
Less:  Reserve for bad accounts                  2.8          3.4          4.0
Net Short-Term Placements                      94.6        125.8       134.6
Current portion of long-term loans               8.8          9.8        20.4
-3ther cu.rrent  assets                          2e7          2.7         5.0
Subtotal current assets                       107.5       139.8        161.6
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                                 68.3         77.8        81.3
Less:  Current portion                           8.8          9.8         20.4
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                     2.1          2.3          2.8
Net Long-Term Loans                            57.4         65.7        58.1
Equity participation                             2.4          2.3          2.2
Other investments                                1.7          1.7        23.7
Subtotal long-term portfolio                   61.5        69.7         84.0
Net fixed assets                                 0.5          0.5         0.6
Other                                            0.5          0.8          1.3
Subtotal long-term assets                      62.5        71.0         85.9
Total Assets                                  170.0        210.8       247.5



- 51 -                         Appendix
Attachment 9
Page 2
1985        1986 1987 /a
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Promissory notes                               75.0         97.1         96.1
Accounts payable                                0.2          0.1          4.6
Current portion of long-term debt               5.8          7.3          8.7
Other current liabilities                       4.0          5.9          5.2
Subtotal current liabilities                  85.0        110.4        114.6
Long-Term Liabilities /b
BI liquidity credits                           23.2         28.9         38.6
Loans from BI                                  37.9         45.1        63.5
Government loans                               11.9         11.9         11.3
Other                                           0.4          0.4          0.5
Subtotal long-term liabilities                73.4         86.3        113.9
Equity
Paid-up capital                                 4.5          4.5          4.5
Reserves                                        4.4          6.4          9.0
Retained earnings                               2.7          3.2          5.5
Subtotal equity                               11.6         14.1         19.0
Total Liabilities and Equity                 170.0        210.8       247.5
/a Provisional (unaudited)
/b Net of current portion.



- 52 -                        Appendix
Attachment 10
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PDFCI
Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1985        1986         1987 /a
Income
Interest
On loans                                       23.3          8.1         10.7
On notes/securities/placements                  /b          16.1         25.0
Other                                           /b           0.1          0.0
Subtotal interest                             23.3         24.3        35.7
Commissions and fees                              1.0          1.0          0.6
Oth2r operating income                            0.2          0.2          0.4
Total Income                                  24.5         25.5         36.7
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                   15.1         16.5         21.8
Salaries and other personnel expenses             2.5          1.9          3.2
Other operating and miscellaneous expenses        0.0          0.4          0.5
Depreciation                                      0.0          0.1          0.3
Provision for bad debts                           2.9          1.7          2.6
Total Expenses                                20.5         20.6         28.4
Net Income Before Taxes                        4.0          4.9          8.3
Less:  Provision for taxes                           1.3         1.6          2.8
Net Income                                     2.7          3.3          5.5
/a Provisional (unaudited).
7i  Included in interest on loans above.



- 53 -                        Appendix
Attachment 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UPPINDO
Summarized Balance Sheets, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1985        1986        1987 /a
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                   1.5         2.4         2.6
Notes/securities/short-term placements        20.5        34.7        49.0
Net Short-Term Loans                         20.5        34.7        49.0
Current portion of long-term loans             9.0        20.3        34.9
Other current assets                           6.3         7.2         8.0
Subtotal current assets                      37.3        64.6        94.5
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                               64.8        90.5       132.8
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                   2.0         2.3         3.4
Less:  Current portion                         9.0        20.3        34.9
Net Long-Term Loans                          53.8        67.9        94.5
Equity participation                           1.4         2.0         2.3
Subtotal long-term portfolio                 55.2        69.9        96.8
Net fixed assets                               1.8         2.0         5.6
Other                                          0.0         0.0         2.1
Subtotal long-term assets                    57.0        71.9       104.5
Total Assets                                 94.2       136.5       199.0



- 54 -                        Appendix
Attachment 11
Page 2
1985        1986         1987 /a
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Current portion                                  3.2         14.0         7.1
Promissory notes                                 6.8         11.4        26.9
Accounts payable                                 2.0          3.1        24.8
Other current liabilities                        0.0          0.0          5.2
Subtotal current liabilities                   12.0        28.5         64.0
Long-Term Liabilities
BI liquidity credits                             0.7          1.0         0.5
Loans from BI                                   58.8        65.1         92.9
Other                                            8.5         20.5         17.5
Subtotal long-term liabilities                68.0         86.6        110.9
Equity
Paid-up capital                                 10.3         16.4         17.2
Reserves                                         2.5          2.9         3.7
Retained earnings                                1.4          2.1          3.2
Subtotal equity                                14.2        21.4         24.1
Total Liabilities and Equity                   94.2        136.5       199.0
/a Provisional (unaudited).



- 55 -                         Ay j~.UUJ.Jhf
Attachment 12
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UPPINDO
Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
1985        1986         1987 /a
Income
Interest
On loans                                        12.9         16.3         17.1
On notes/securities/placements                   0.0          0.0         4.3
Subtotal interest                              12.9         16.3        21.4
Commissions and fees                               0.8          1.1          1.1
Foreign exchange transactions (net)               (0.2)         1.6          0.9
Other operating income                             0.2          0.3          0.2
Total Income                                   13.7         19.3        23.6
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                     7.1          9.8         13.2
Salaries and other personnel expenses              1.6          1.9          2.3
Other operating and miscellaneous expenses /b   1.0             1.2          1.4
Provision for bad debts                            1.8          2.9          1.8
Total Expenses                                 11.5         15.8        18.7
Net Income Before Taxes                         2.2          3.5         4.9
Less:  Provision for taxes                           0.8          1.3          1.8
Net Income                                      1.4          2.2         3.1
/a Provisional (unaudited).
/b Includes depreciation.



-    -t ~                                  Table 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subprojects Approved Under EDP (Loan 2702-IND) as of March 22, 1988
The Enterprise
(Rp iillion)
Total     No. of
Subproject                                                        Total      export    employ-
no.     Enterprise's name            Items produced        assets /a   sales /b   ees
BRI
WA" Subprojects
A-1   PT Teja Sekawan CI             Cocoa                     2,316      17,220         122
(East Java)
A-2   PT Rimba Niaga                 Rattan furniture,         1,854         326         253
(Jakarta)                     handicraft
A-3   CV Karya Indra                 Rattan furniture          1,230         620        453
(North Sumatera)
A-4   Pt Surya Alam Tunggal          Frozen shrimp,            5,631      7,521          277
(East Java)                    frog, snail
A-5   PT Marindal                    Pigs                      1,868          69          29
(North Sumatera)
A-6   PT SSTC                        Sawn timber              14,464       1,697        493
(South Kalimantan)
A-7   PT Indoraya Pratama            Garments                  6,206      4,200         933
(Jakarta)
A-8   PT Sido Bangun                 Plastic bags              4,007       1,139        476
(East Java)
Subtotal BRI "A" subprojects                      37,576      32,792       3,036
"B" Subprojects
B-1   PT Chandra Utama               Lampit rattan             1,003         956        285
(South Kalimantan)
B-2   CV Lariza                      Rattan furniture,         1,250         854        655
(North Sumatera)              handicraft
B-3   PT Armac Permai                Rattan furniture,         1,427         255        510
(Jakarta)                     fabricated rattan
B-4   CV Makmur Pig Farm             Pigs                        703           -          13
(North Sumatera)
B-5   PT Rimas Multi Commodity       Coffee and cassava        1,680       1,072         47
(West Sumatera)             processing                                             -
B-6   PT Astrijati Indonesia         Rattan furniture            300           -         36\
Rotan Industri (Jakarta)
Subtotal BRI "B" subprojects                       6,363       3,137       1,546--
Total BRI                                         43,939      35,929       4,582



57 -                                     AMR" 1
Table 1
Page 2
Total     No. of
Subproject                                                        Total       export    employ-
no.     Enterprise's name            Items produced         assets /a   sales /b   ees
BDN
-rA" Subprojects
A-1   PT Sumelindo                   Plywood                  60,783      39,528       n.a.
A-2   PT Condro Purnomo Cipto        Leather                   2,038       4,240       n.a.
A-3   PT Hartati Jaya Plywood        Plywood                  27,124      22,140       n.a.
A-4   PT Dharma Satya Nusantara    Sawn timber                 7,154       4,584       n.a.
A-5   PT Yubarson                    Logging                   2,879           -       n.a.
A-6   PT Batam Textile Industry    Gray cotton                21,659      15,000       n.a.
(Central Java)
Subtotal BDN "A" subprojects                      121,637      85,492        n.a.
"B" Subprojects
B-1   CV Donggala Jaya               Rattan                    1,182       2,711       n.a.
B-2   PT Hadinata                    Furniture                 5,859      4,590        n.a.
B-3   CV Panca Samudra               Crumb rubber              8,059      16,483       n.a.
Subtotal BDN "B" subprojects                      15,100      23,784        n.a.
Total BDN                                        136,737    109,276         n.a.
BNI 1946
"A" Subprojects
A-1   PT Rompok Rotan                Rattan                      331           -           5
A-2   CV Wiska (West Java)           Textiles                  4,620       2,013        470
Subtotal BNI 1946 "A" subprojects                  4,951       2,013         475
"B" Subprojects
B-1   CV Sabara                      Coffee                    3,282       3,816          56
B-2   CV Manraya                     Rattan                      981       1,783        335
B-3   PT Kalindo Raya Utama          Rattan carpets              710       1,711        500
(South Kalimantan)
Subtotal BNI "B" subprojects                       4,973       7,310         891
Total BNI 1946                                     9,924       9,323       1,366
GRAND TOTAL BRI, BDN AND BNI 1946                190,600    154,528        5,948
/a  Before the project, at the end of the enterprise's most recent fiscal year.
7W  Before the project, during the enterprise's most recent fiscal year.
/c  Under EDP I, Bank loans exceeding the free limit (US$0.5 million) are called "A"
subprojects, those not exceeding the free limit are "B" subprojects.



- 58 -                                      Tabl
Table 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subprojects Approved Under EDP (Loar 2702-IND) as of March 22, 1988
Project Costs
(Rp million)
Estimated project cost                 Financing plan
Capital    Working                                  Other
Subproject no.               investment  capital   Total   Equity         IBRD    loans   Total
BRI
"A" Subprojects
A-1                          7,971          -    7,971    2,790    5,181           -    7,971
A-2                          2,586          -    2,586        905    1,419       262    2,586
A-3                          2,127          -    2,127        745    1,269       113    2,127
A-4                          2,438      4,000    6,438    2,030    3,444         964    6,438
A-5                          2,115          -    2,115        740    1,169       206    2,115
A-6                         20,096          -   20,096    8,288   10,424   1,384   20,096
A-7                          2,708          -    2,708        948       880      880    2,708
A-8                          1,525          -    1,525        525    1,000         -    1,525
Subtotal BRI "A"
subprojects              41,566      4,000   45,566   16,971   24,786   3,809   45,566
"B" Subprojects
B-1                            505          -       505       155       347        3       505
B-2                            877          -       877       264       349      264      877
B-3                          1,727          -    1,727        912       508      307    1,727
B-4                          1,286          -    1,286        587       568      131    1,286
B-5                          1,362          -    1,362        477       443     442    1,362
B-6                          1,480          -    1,480        655       278      547    1,480
Subtotal BRI "B"
subprojects               7,237          -    7,237    3,050    2,493   1,694    7,237
Total BRI                  48,803      4,000   52,803   20,021   27,279   5,503   52,803



59 -A MM   I
Table 2
Page 2
Estimated project cost                 Financing plan
Capital    Working                                  Other
Subproject no.               investment  capital   Total   Equity        IBRD    loans   Total
BDN
'fA" Subprojects
A-1                         20,204          -   20,204    7,164   11,410   1,630   20,204
A-2                          2,608        557    3,165       881    1,503       781    3,165
A-3                          8,706      3,687   12,393    4,143    5,650   2,600   12,393
A-4                          2,400          -    2,400       840    1,560         -    2,400
A-5                          2,788          -    2,788       976    1,394       418    2,788
A-6                         16,754          -   16,754    5,864   10,726        164   16,754
Subtotal BDN "A"
subprojects             53,460      4,244   57,704   19,868   32,243   5,593   57,704
"B" Subprojects
B-1                            650        778    1,428       368       400      660    1,428
B-2                          1,172      1,045    2,217       857       717      643    2,217
B-3                            882          -      882       309       441      132      882
Subtotal BDN "B"
subprojects               2,704      1,823    4,527    1,534    1,558   1,435    4,527
Total BDN                  561164      66    6           21,402   33,801   7,028   62,231
BNI 1946
fX'A" bprojects
A-1                            689        322    1,011       294       420      297    1,011
A-2                          1,767        265    2,032       832    1,200         -    2,032
Subtotal BNI 1946
"A" subprojects           2,456        587    3,043    1,126    1,620       297    3,043
"B" Subprojects
B-1                            674      1,706    2,380       700       440   1,240    2,380
B-2                          1,302        500    1,802       402       900      500    1,802
B-3                          1,194        301    1,495       594       431      470    1,495
Subtotal BNI 1946
"B" subprojects           3,170     2,507    5,677    1,696    1,771   2,210    5,677
Total BNI 1946              5,626      3,094    8,720    2,822    3,391   2,507    8,720
GRAND TOTAL BRI, BDN
and BNI 1946            110,593    13,161  123,754   44,245   64,471  15,038  123,754



- 60-                                      Table 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subprojects Approved Under EDP (Loan 2702-IND) as of March 22, 1988
Project Benefits
(Rp million)
Total   Annual   Number of  Cost per job
Subproject                                          annual   export      jobs       created /b
no.     Project end-products                    sales/a  sales/a  generated    (Rp'000)
BRI
"A" Subprojects
A-1   Butter cocoa, powder cocoa                 39,639   22,419         378      21,087
A-2   Rattan furniture                            4,534    3,628         97       26,659
A-3   Rattan furniture                            3,073    2,458         47       45,265
A-4   Frozen shrimp and frogs                    17,965   14,965        223       10,933
A-5   Pigs                                        2,364    1,331          31      68,232
A-6   Sawn timber                                36,674   29,339        262       76,702
A-7   Garments                                   15,100    8,400      1,000        2,708
A-8  'Dlastic bags                                3,620    2,278        215        7,093
Su    .1 BRI "A" subprojects                   122,969   84,818      2,253       18,445
"B" Subprojects
B-1   Rattan lampit/rattan carpet                 4,101    4,101          65       7,770
B-2   Rattan furniture, handicraft                2,413       966        20       43,825
B-3   Rattan furniture, fabricated rattan        10,422    8,338         90       19:192
B-4   Pigs                                        1,438    1,071         37       34,764
B-5   Coffee and cassiavera                       2,063    2,063          -            -
B-6   Rattan furniture                             n.a.     n.a.        414        3,575
Subtotal BRI "B" subprojects                    20,437   16,539        626       11,561
Total BRI                                      143,406  101,357      2,879       16,951



- 61. -                                     --     
Table 3
Page 2
Total   Annual   Number of  Cost per Job
Subproject                                           annual   export       jobs       created /b
no.     Project end-products                     sales/a  sales/a  generated    (Rp'00)
BDN
'--rA" Subprojects
A-1   Plywood                                     35,356   35,356         404       50,010
A-2   Leather                                      6,866    6,179         119       21,916
A-3   Plywood                                     38,142   38,142        n.a.         n.a.
A-4   Blockwood                                   11,399   11,399         100       87,060
A-5   Logging                                      1,164 (indirect)    n.A.           n.a.
A-6   Gray cloth                                  17,932   17,932        n.a.         n.a.
Subtotal BDN "A" subprojects                    110,859  109,008         623       40,469
"B" Subprojects
B-1   Rattan                                       7,441    6,622        n.a.         n.a.
B-2   Furniture                                    4,096    4,096        n.a.         n.a.
B-3   Crumb rubber                                 8,687    7,384        n.a.         n.a.
Subtotal BDN "B" subprojects                     20,224   18,102        n.a.         n.a.
Total BDN                                       131,083  127,110         623       40,469
BNI 1946
"'A" Subprojects
A-1   Rattan webbing                               1,766    1,766         352        1,957
A-2   Towels and knitted products                  5,760    2,120        n.a.         n.a.
Subtotal BNI 1946 "A" subprojects                 7,526    3,886         352        1,957
"B" Subprojects
B-:   Coffee                                      12,599    4,857         100        6,740
B-2   Rattan webbing                               2,190    2,19'1        335        3,887
B-3   Rattan carpets                               3,600    3,600         158        7,557
Subtotal BNI 1946 "B" subprojects                18,389   10,647         593        5,346
Total BNI 1946                                   25,915   14,533         945        4,084
GRAND TOTAL BRI, BDN AND BNI 1946               300,404  243,000       4,447       16,246
/a During the first year at which project is operating at full production.
7-b  Estimated project (capital investment) cost (from Table lb) * number of jobs genera-
ted; subtotal and total figures exclude projects for which employment generation is
n.a.



- 62 -                                                A      2
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVLOPHENT PROJElCT
Status of Technical Assistance and Trainin Components
Under EDP (Loan 2702-IND) a
Eatisated
Eat. cost   Implownting   conplotion
Subcomponents/Studies/Program                US$ mnm)         agencies        date                        Status
I. Direct Technical Assistance
1. Export credit insurance and             0.4        P.T. AShI         09/89      MOF preparing final contract.
guarantee institution
2. Strengthening of quality support         1.3       MOT(DGFT)         09/89      MOT proparing contract.
network
It. Studies
1. Export estate feasibility/design        0.7        MOT(ATRD)         03/89      MOT preparing fin&. TORs.
2. Role of trading conpantes               0.15       WOT(ATRD)         05/89      Bank approved revised TORs, letter of
invitation, and *hortlist.
3. Role of governmnt                       0.15       MOT(ATRD)         05/89      Bank approved revised TORs, letter of
invitation, and shortlist.
4. Industry and export studios              1.6       MOT/MOF/MOI
- Action-oriented export progras       (0.5)           MOI           10/88      Phase I completed.  Bank approved
TORs for Phase II.
- Effective rate of protoction         (0.2)           MOI                      Completed.
- MIS for MOI                          (0.2)           MOI           02/89      MOI preparing final contract.
U!1. Export Support Board/Fund
L. Export Support Board                    1.8           ESB            10/90      MOT signed contract in January 1988.
2. Export Support Fund                     6.1          ESB/MOT         10/90
IV. Exporter Training Program                   1.3           MOT           10/90      Bank approved selection of consulting
firm.
Estimated Total Cost                 13.5
/ As of April 18. 1988.



-63 -                                                ANlS
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Pipeline /a
Type of       Eetiw:wed
Project                                Type of business              Location /b                    project /c    IBRD subloan
(Rp billion)
Applications Currently Being Revieved by IBRD /d
BRI
Subtotal BRI                                                                                                        _
BDN
Automotive                   W. Java (Tangerang)                 E               0.435
Autofotive                   Jakarta                             E               0.823
Saw mill & logging           N. Sulawesi (Poso)                  E               9.660
Subtotal BDN                                                                                                      10.918
BNI 1946
Shoes                        W. Java (Bsandung)                  E               0.630
Rattan                       W. Java (Tangerang)                 e               1.502
Subtotal ENI 1946                                                                                                  2.132
Total                                                                                                             13.050
Applications Approved by PBs' Respective
Boards, but Not vet Submitted to IBRD
BRI
Dry kiln/molding              S. Sumatera (Palembang)            N               0.680
Dry kiln/molding             S. Sumatera (Palembang)             N               1.100
Dry kiln                     S. Sumatera (Jambi)                 N               2.500
Subtotal BRI                                                                                                       4.280
BDN
Canned asparagus             E. Java (Malang)                    N              11.000
Dry kiln                     E. Kalimantan (Samarinda)                           2.500
Chopsticks                   W. Java (Bandung)                                   0.500
Pigs                         N. Sumatera (Medan)                                 0.600
Subtotal BDN                                                                                                      14.600
BNI 1946
Subtotal BNI 1946                                                                                                   -
Total                                                                                                             18.880
Applications Being Processed by the PBs
BRI
Garment                      Jakarta                             E               0.712
Rattan furniture             Jakarta                             N               0.600
Chopsticks                   E. Java (Surabaya)                  E               1.000
Frog farm                    Riau (Batan Island)                 E               1.990
Rattan/webbing               S. Kalinantan (Banjaruasin)         E               0.347
Ginger processing            S. Sumatera (Palembang)             N               0.400
Sugarcane top processing    E. Java (Surabaya)                   E               2.046
Essence oil                  Aceb (Lhokseumava)                  E               0.646
Dry kiln                     C. Java (Semarang)                  E               1.750
Subtotal BRI                                                                                                       9.493



- 64 -                                                ANNEX 3
Page 2
Type of        Estimated
Project                                 Type of business              Location /b                     project /c    IBRD subloan
(Rp billion)
Applications Being Processed by the PBs (cont'd)
BDN
Gramerstone                   N. Sulawesi (Poso)                  E                1.200
Wood                          E. Kalimantan (Sa&arinda)                          11.550
Palm oil                      S. Sunatera (Jambi)                                 5.000
Fiberglass                    Jakarta                                            11.550
Kraft liner                   Jakarta                                             5.000
Palm oil                      W. Sumatera (Padang)                                5.000
Coffee                        B. Lampung                          E               2.000
Textile                       W. Harapan                          e               0.800
Subtotal BDN                                                                                                        42.100
BNI 1946
Rattan                        W. Kalimantan (Pontianak)           E               3.000
Sawn timber                   Riau                                E               7.500
Subtotal BNI 1946                                                                                                   10.500
Total                                                                                                               62.093
Discussions Held with Clients, but Applica-
tions not yet Formally Submitted to the PBs
BRI
Mining                        S. Sumatera (Pangkal Pinang)        N               3.000
Coffee processing             S. Sumatera (Palembang)             N               1.100
Dry kiln/molding              Jakarta                             E               6.200
Rattan furniture              Jakarta                             E               0.850
Tapioca chips                 S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)          e               0.525
Polyurethane foam             e. Java (Surabaya)                  E               1.000
Antenna                       Jakarta (Bekasi)                    E               6.500
Rattan furniture              W. Java (Tangerang)                 N               2.000
Dry kiln/molding              W. Kalimantan (Pontianak)           B               2.000
Rattan furniture              E. Java (Surabaya)                  E               9.000
Fancy fish farming            Jakarta                             E               0.475
Garment/knitting              C. Java (Semarang)                  E               0.400
Tapioca chips                 S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)          E               0.600
Tapioca chips                 S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)          E               0.450
Tapioca/pepper processing   S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)            E               0.500
Shoes                         Jakarta                             E               3.250
Garment                       Bali (Denpasar)                     E               0.530
Fiber wood                    e. Java (Gresik)                    e               0.350
Rubber shoes/sandals/         R. Bitung                           E               2.000
slippers
Subtotal BRI                                                                                                        40.730
BDN
BNI 1946
Sawn timber                   W. Kalimantan (Pontianak)           E               7.400
Pelletizing                   N. Sumatera                         e               7.500
Feedmill                      E. Java (Surabaya)                  e               5.000
Household appliances          Jakarta                             R               3.000
Subtotal BNI 1946                                                                                                   22.900
Total                                                                                                               63.630



- 65 -                                                ANNEX 3
Page 3
Type of        Estimated
Project                                 Type of business              Location lb                     project /c    IBID subloan
(Rp billion)
Companies Identified as Potential Clients
BRI
Cold storage                  Aceh                                E               1.000
Ceramics                      Tanjung Pandan, Belitung Is.        E               2.000
Cerasics                      Tanjung Pandan, Belitung Is.        E               0.900
Pearl culture                 S. Sumatera (Tanjung Karang)        E               4.000
Pig farming                   Riau (P Baru)                       E               0.400
Woodworking                   S. Kalimantan (Banjaruasin)         E               5.000
Rattan carpet                 e. Java (Kediri)                    E               0.700
Wood furniture                e. Java (Surabaya)                  e               1.500
Shoes                         E. Java (Malang)                    E               1.500
Cooking oil                   e. Java (Malang)                    e               0.600
Rattan furniture              C. Java (Kudus)                     e               0.500
Rattan furniture              e. Java (Surabaya)                  E               1.000
Rattan furniture              E. Java (Surabaya)                  e               0.750
Coffee & pepper               S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)          E               2.500
Coffee, tapioca               S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)          e               1.000
Pepper/ta)ioca                S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)          e               1.000
Shrimp cold stor./hatchery  S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)            N               4.000
Pepper process/warehouse    S. Sumatera (Teluk Betung)            e               1.500
Subtotal BRI                                                                                                        29.850
BDN
Woodworking                   C. Kalimantan (Sampit)
Wood industry                 S. Kalimantan (Banjarmasin)
Woodworking                   E. Java (Surabaya)
Tirecord                      W. Java (Bogor)
Palm oil                      Bitung
Palm oil                      Manado
Textiles                      Jakarta
Wood Industry                 S. Kalimantan (Banjarmasin)
Wood industry                 S. Kalimantan (Banjarmasin)
Rattan                        Palu
Subtotal BDN                                                                                                         n.a.
BNI 1946
Plywood                       C. Kalimantan (Sampit)              E               3.300
Ceramics                      Bali (Tulungagung)                  E               4.350
Polystrene                    S. Sumatera (Palembang)             E               4.200
Fish canneries                Bali (Denpasar)                     E              16.500
Fish canneries                Bali (Banvuwangi)                   E               3.000
Chocolate                     Bali (Jember)                       E               3.000
Aluminum                      Jakarta                             e               3.000
Subtotal BNI 1946                                                                                                   37.350
PDFCI
Wing sailer                   Jakarta                             N               0.300
Furniture                     C. Java                             e               1.500
Shrimp farm                   S. Kalimantan                       e               0.750
Coke                          E. Java                             N               2.500
Leather shoes                 E. Java                             N               2.500
Steel profile                 W. Java                             E               2.000
Seaweed                       Sulawesi                            N               0.700
Monosodium glutemate          e. Java                             E               6.000
Finished leather              E. Java                             E               1.650
Bamboo industry               W. Java                             N               1.000
Rubber gloves                 W. Java                             N               2.000
Soyabean & fruit juice        E. Java                             N               1.250
Pencil slate & veneer         W. Java                             e               3.000
Leather                       W. Java                             E               2.500
Subtotal PDFCI                                                                                                      27.650



- 66 -                                                AMN=E  3
Page 4
Type of        Estisated
Project                                Type of business              Locatfon /b                    project /c    IBRD subloan
(Rp billion)
Coupanies Identified as Potential Clients (cont'd)
Printing ink ufg.            DKI (Pulogadung)                    E               5.000
Rubber goods & v-belt        W. Java (Tangerang)                 E               5.000
Aluminum                     W. Java (Bogor)                     E               5.000
Pelletizing                  Cirebon                             N               1.750
Flowers & fruit seeds        Bandung                             N               0.500
Electroplating               Jakarta                             N               2.000
Green ginger                  Bengkulu                           E               0.700
Offset & printing            Jakarta                             E               5.500
Rattan processing            S. Sulawesi (Tenggara)              E               1.500
Steel fabricator             Jakarta                             E               4.300
Corrugated carton paper      e. Java (Surabaya)                  E               3.300
Sport shoes                  W. Java                             E               2.800
Cow breeding, fattening 6   Aceh (Blang Bintang)                 E               1.410
slaughtering
Garments                     Bali                                E               0.600
Fish processing              Bali                                N               3.500
Fish processing               Bali                               E               2.000
Subtotal UPPINDO                                                                                                  29 .860
Bank Duta
Electronics                  Jakarta                             N4              2.000
Rattan                       Jakarta                             N               1.200
Agribusiness                 Jakarta                             E               1.000
Chopsticks                   Sumedang                            N               1.600
Agribusiness                 W. Java                             N               1.000
Molasses                     Upandang                            E               0.495
Shrimp & tuna                Upandang                            N               0.825
Shrimp & tuna                Upandang                            N               0.198
Cold storage                 Upandang                            N               1.650
Integrated tuna              Upandang                            N               8.745
Fruit processing             Upandang                            N               3.300
Shoes                        E. Java (Surabaya)                                  1.500
Gloves                       E. Java (Surabaya)                                  0.350
Chopsticks                   E. Java (Surabaya)                                  0.350
Subtotal Bank Duta Ekonomi                                                                                        24.213
Bank Bufi Daya
Kaolinclay                                                                       1.000
Garments                                                                         0.670
Rattan furniture                                                                 1.250
Rattan furniture                                                                 4.000
Rubber wood                                                                      0.760
Rubber -ood                                                                      0.300
Rubber wood                                                                      1.800
Plywood                                                                          6.000
Rubber wood                                                                      1.400
Plywood                                                                          4.200
Feedlill                                                                         3.850
Subtotal Bank Bumi Daya                                                                                           25.230



-67 -                                               AiNUK3
Page 5
Typ  of       Istimated
Project                               Type of business             Location /b                   projet /c    IBID subloan
(Rp billion)
Companies Identified as Potential Clients (cont'd)
Bank Niapa
Textiles                    W. Java (Bandung)                  1               4.950
Shoes                       W. Java (Bandung)                  11              1.155
Furniture                   W. Java (landung)                  V               0.578
Shoes                       Jakarta                            I               1.980
Chopsticks                  W. Java (Bandung)                  I               0.660
Garmats                      Jakarta                           1               2.475
Rubber tires                 Jakarta                           e               0.578
Garments                     Jakarta                           1               1.155
Garments                     Jakarta                           I               0.578
Shoes                        Jakarta                           W               1.155
Subtotal Bank Niaga                                                                                            15.264
UII
Cocoa processing             Jakarta                           F              15.200
Rattan furniture            Jakarta                            a              0.750
Sawn timber/molding         Ujung Pandang                      F              0.450
Cocoa processing            Ujung Pandang                      a               1.500
Subtotal BEII                                                                                                  17.900
Total                                                                                                         207 .3141e
/a As of March 8. 1988.
/b Province (branch).
/c  N - new; e - expansion; R *  odernitation/rebabilitation.
/d As of March 22, 1988.
/e Not including BDN.
March 22, 1988



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Formula for Calculation of Relending Rate from GOI to
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
1.        The interest rate payable by PFIs to GOI on funds out of the Bank
loan will be a variable rate per annum equal to the average weighted interest
cost of the PFI's (excluding the NBFIs) loanable funds arising out of their
customer deposits (i.e., excluding free funds from government and parastatal
agencies) over a six-month period. This rate will be determined according to
the following formula and adjusted every six months:
rT (T ) + rS (S ) + rD (D )
I - (1/6     t   t        t   t     t    t
(T  + S  + D ) (RT + RS + RD)
t    t    t      t      t    t
t-1
Definitions
t    -    the last day of each of the most recent six months prior
to an Interest Period for which BI has consolidated data
on the deposit base of the Participating Entities1
D   -    interest rate payable on Participating Entities' demand
t        deposits, at time t
rT   -    interest rate payable on Participating Entities'
t        time deposits, at time t
2/ In this formula, Participating Entities do not include PDFCI
and UPPINDO.



-69 -                                ANNEX 4
Page 2
rS   _    interest rate payable on Participating Entities' saving
t        deposits, at time t
Dt   -    the amount of Participating Entities' demand deposits,
at time t
Tt   -    the amount of Participating Entities' time deposits, at
time t
St   -    the amount of Participating Entities' saving deposits,
at time t
MDt  -    minimum average balance of Participating Entities'
demand deposits outstanding during month immediately
preceding time t
RT   -    reserves on time deposits of Participating Entities, at
t        time t
RS   -    reserves on savings deposits of Participating Entities'
t        at time t
RD   -    reserves on demand deposits of Participating Entities,
t       at time t
I    -    interest rate applicable on Subsidiary Loan (from the
Borrower to all Participating Entities) for each
interest period.
2.   Notwithstanding the above cost-of-funds formula, the
relending rate will not be less than the interest rate on the Loan
plus a margin of 1.75%



ANN" 5
-70 -
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements
of the Proposed Loan
(US$ million)
Total estimated
Bank fiscal                cumulative disbursements /a
year/semester                Amount               Percent
FY89
First                     3.1                    1.9
Second                    9.4                    5.7
FY90
First                    23.4                   14.2
Second                   45.2                   27.4
FY91
First                    69.6                   42.2
Second                   96.7                   58.6
FY92
First                   118.3                   71.7
Second                  134.8                   81.7
FY93
First                   147.5                   89.4
Second                  156.8                   95.0
FY94
First                   163.2                   98.9
Second                  165.0                  100.0
/a Standard disbursement profile for IDF projects in
the Asia Region.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A.   General
A.1  Bank Indonesia:  Report for the Financial Year 1986/87
A.2  BBD:  The Development of State Conmercial Banks in Indonesia 1985
A.3  BBD:  The Development of State Commercial Banks in Indonesia 1986
A.4  BBD:  The Development of Foreign Exchange Banks in Indonesia 1986
A.5  BI's Banking Supervision Department - "Bank Rating System"
A.6  Project Appraisal Report Format (above free-limit subloans)
A.7  Summary Description of Subproject Proposal (free-limit subloans)
B.   The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks (SCBs)
B.1  BBD - Annual Reports for 1985 (English) and 1986 (Bahasa)
B.2  BEII - Annual Reports for 1985 (English) and 1986 (Bahasa)
B.3  BDN - Annual Reports for 1985 (English) and 1986 (Bahasa)
B.4  BNI 1946 - Annual Reports for 1985 and 1986 (English)
B.5  BRI - Annual Reports for 1985 (English) and 1986 (Bahasa)
B.6  For each of the five SCBs:
(i)  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1985-87
(ii) Audited Income Statements, 1985-87
(iii) Indicators of Financial Position and Performance, 1985-87
(iv) Summary of Lending and Borrowing Operations, 1985-87
B.7 Characteristics of SCBs' Outstanding Loan Portfolio (by Bank), 1986
and 1987.
B.8 Appraisal and Credit Evaluation Formats
(i)  BBD
(ii) BRI
(iii)  BDN
B.9  Description of Loan Processing/Appraisal Procedure
(i)  BDN
(ii)  BNI 1946
(iii)  BEII
(iv)  BBD
C.   The NBFIs (PDFCI and UPPINDO)
C.1 PDFCI - Annual Reports for 1985 and 1986
C.2 PDFCI - Memorandum to Executive Committee/Board of Directors on
"Budget for the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1987'



- 72 -                               Page 2
C.3 PDFCI - Suggested Outline for Feasibility Studies
C.4 PDFCI - Financial Statements (198i-1987), including (i) indicators
of Financial Position and Performance and (ii) Sunmmary of Lending
and Borrowing Operations
C.5 PDFCI - List of Existing Export-Oriented Projects
C.6 PDFCI - Prbject Pipeline (as of February 1988)
C.7 UPPINDO - Annual Reports for 1985 and 1986
C.8 UPPINDO - General Principles of Management and Investment Policy
C.9 UPPINDO - Outlirne of UPPINDO's Appraisal Report
C.10 UPPINDO - Financial Statements (1985-87), including (i) indicators
of Financial Position and Performance and (ii) Swummary of Lending
and Borrowing Operations
C.11 UPPIO'DO- Project Pipeline
D.   The Private Banks (Bank Iluta and Bank Niaga)
D.1  Bank Duta - Annual Reports for 1984 and 1986 (English)
D.2  Bank Niaga - Annual Reports for 1985 and 1986 (Bahasa)
D.3 Mr. G. Tumusiime's (RSI) Working Papers on the Two Private Banks
D.4 For each of the two private banks:
(i)  Indicators of Financial Position and Performance, 1985-87
(ii)  Sunmmary of Lending and Borrowing Operations, 1985-87
D.5 Bank Niaga - Report on Examination of Financial Statements Year
ending December 31, 1987 (draft in English)
D.6 Bank Duta - Report on Examination of Financial Statements Year
ending December 31, 1987 (draft in Bahasa)
D.7 Bank Duta - Audit Report for the Year 1986 and 1985
E.   Legal - Articles of Association/Incorporation
E.1 BEII
E.2 BBD
E.3 UPPINDO
E.4 PDFCI
E.5 Bank Niaga
E.6 Bank Duta Ekonomi



MAP SECTION.
l
I



fIRD I
THAILAND                                                         lvi                                    IZr                                                                             Zr                                     lvi
BRUNEI  rdral                         ?                       PHILIPPINES           -                                                 I N  D 0 N  E S I A
MALAYSIA                                                                                  .*i                          /
-  N.   ~~~~~~~~~~~SLA   ~~~~~~~~~  .- -                                                                                         o ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cities vs Towns
Rives
Provi,ce Boonderies
1  /        I                                      7                                                                                 /                                        -   -  Intervetiovol Boondories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lwotma Bv.are
2ts                                                                                  MALAYSIA          )
c 8 _<, ~~~~~SIN4GAPORE                                                  J'       \         7/
<7>  ONGZd'OR )   Tollwrepi23                                                                                                                                        H /  AIMAIHERA
-vi       4                                                        26       KAITAfA
/<                      -,                    F-                                      -V /.\                                                                                             /                            oAss"
-   - \A;d1GKA      .25                                                                              2 0                                                                                     0
PROVINCES                                            P l.lls                  Ed N           A                             24                       SU'UA WESI>                           KEPt/AUAN  S//A            RFkfvj
6UNG                                                                    22 2SfAM                                                                           Fo0/
3 iSMAYSCs sAvRT                        E                                                                                                                                                      N or                                                               / P/ ANb   JAVYA 
4 RIAU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIN JAYA\/   KbF
4 ..AUN
oSUMATtRA #IATAN                 /~~ >    8                                                                                       up,*    5                                                                                                        N                     Asasi           o |
5 -..UGOT 
9 D S  JASACTA                                                                                                                                                                tOvA/O
1ACHA  TA/                                                             9             9
13J"  4lU                                                                                                     UKA
ohUEAIE TG...                                                                                              MADURS A
4516   1.0     1.
l55S0USSGSR CTARAT                                                                        12'o                              14   I        E C"CC
22NUUAS-0R -LAT155                                                                                                                                                           16 Ii                                                                            1        2G0s5c,y 0o,o
23ALIIhT A l-_                                                                                                                                    5Ug,A WMXW"                      "_rMOR 27                                                                   MILES
24i MuALIATAN                                                                             iPLAT
25K.,    vsEvvSs. KNA                                                                                                            /'                               OR
26KAuLe.i. TAS RARAT                                                                                                   _.') /                                                                                                                                       20ibis2  9  9 0   3?0  450  s00
27T.-G TI.UR                                                                                                                                                                                     G_R .brnrdflwFFr                                                   KILOMtEfM
100' 106 112* llr 12KALiSsAP/TAe°fGyM~M~' vriue



