Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2979 IND
                (Second Export Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK ON RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    BANK NEGARA INDONESIA 1946
                        BANK DAGANG NEGARA
                       BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
                          BANK BUMI DAYA
                    BANK EKSPOR IMPOR INDONESIA
                            BANK NIAGA
                             BANK DUTA
         PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF INDONESIA
              USAHA PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                       Dated August 24, 1988
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2979 IND
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  24,  1988  between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANK NEGARA
INDONESIA 1946 (BNI 1946),  BANK  DAGANG NEGARA (BDN), BANK RAKYAT
INDONESIA (BRI), BANK BUMI DAYA (BBD), BANK EKSPOR IMPOR INDONESIA
(BEII), BANK NIAGA, BANK DUTA, PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
OF INDONESIA (PDFCI)  AND  USAHA  PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
(UPPINDO).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to lend to  the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies  equivalent  to  one  hundred  sixty-five  million dollars
($ 165,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on  condition  that  BNI  1946, BDN, BRI, BBD,
BEII, Bank Niaga,  Bank  Duta,  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each agree to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement; and
     (B)  by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
Page  2
the Borrower and BI, BNI  1946,  BDN,  BRI,  BBD and BEII, and on-
lending agreements to be entered  into  between BI and Bank Niaga,
Bank Duta, PDFCI and  UPPINDO,  the  proceeds of the Loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will  be made available to the Parti-
cipating Entities on terms and  conditions  set forth in said Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements; and
     WHEREAS the Participating  Entities,  in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the  Loan  Agreement  with the Borrower, have
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the  General  Conditions  as  so defined have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                   Management and Operations of
                    the Participating Entities
     Section 2.01. The  Participating  Entities declare their com-
mitment to the objectives of  the  Project  as set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with
sound financial standards and  practices, with qualified and expe-
rienced management and in accordance with their Governing Laws and
Charters, as the  case  may  be,  and  shall  provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  Participating Entities undertake that,
unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree, Sub-loans shall be made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  Each Participating Entity  shall  exercise its rights in
relation to each  Investment  Project  in  such  manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the  Bank and of the relevant Participat-
ing Entity; (ii) comply with  its obligations under this Agreement
and the relevant  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement or On-lending Agree-
ment, as the case may  be;  and  (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
     Section 2.03. The Participating  Entities shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance  and  land  acquisition)  in  respect  of  the Project
Agreement.
     Section 2.04. Each  Participating  Entity  shall duly perform
all its obligations under  the  relevant Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or On-lending Agreement, as the  case  may  be. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree each Participating  Entity shall not take or
concur in any action  which  would  have  the effect of assigning,
amending, abrogating or  waiving  their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or On-lending Agreement, as the case may be, or any pro-
vision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Participating  Entities shall, at the
request of the Bank, exchange  views  with the Bank with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement  and  under  their respective Subsidiary Loan
Page  3
Agreement or On-lending Agreement, as  the  case may be, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The Participating Entities shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the  Bank  shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditures of the proceeds  of the Sub-loans, the Investment
Enterprises,  the  Investment  Projects  and  the  administration,
operations and financial condition of the Participating Entities.
     (c)  The Participating  Entities  shall  promptly  inform the
Bank of any condition  which  interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the  Project,  the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Loan, or  the  performance by the Participating Enti-
ties of  their  respective  obligations  under  this Agreement and
under their  respective  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement or On-lending
Agreement, as the case may be.
     Section 2.06. Except as the Bank and the relevant Participat-
ing Entity shall otherwise  agree,  such Participating Entity: (i)
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and
(ii) shall take  all  action  necessary  to maintain its corporate
existence and right to  carry  on  its  operations and to acquire,
maintain and renew all  rights,  powers, privileges and franchises
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
     Section 2.07. The Participating  Entities  shall use the pro-
ceeds accrued to them from the  repayment of the principal of Sub-
loans for further  relending  to  Investment  Enterprises for Sub-
loans on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth in the Schedule to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  The  Participating Entities shall maintain
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress
of the Project and of  each Investment Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived  from it) and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently  maintained  sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Participating Entities.
     (b)  The Participating Entities shall:
          (i)  have their records,  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the relevant Participating Entity shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
Page  4
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of the Loan withdrawn  in  respect of such expendi-
               tures were used  for  the  purposes  for which they
               were provided.
     Section 3.02. The Participating Entities shall, in their term
lending operations, take such  steps  satisfactory  to the Bank as
shall be necessary  to  cover  themselves against foreign exchange
risk.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the  Participating  Entities  thereunder shall terminate on
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with  its  terms,  and   the   Bank   shall  promptly  notify  the
Participating Entities thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
Page  5
     For BNI 1946:
          Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
          Jalan Lada No. 1
          P.O. Box 1946 KB/JAK
          Jakarta 11001, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               KANTORBESAR                     42702 KBBNI - Jakarta
               Jakarta, Indonesia              42703 - Jakarta
                                               42724 KBBNI - Jakarta
    For BDN:
          Bank Dagang Negara
          Jalan M.H. Thamrin No. 5
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               STACOPU                         45844 BDN UPK IA
               Jakarta, Indonesia              45845 BDN UPK IA
    For BRI:
          Bank Rakyat Indonesia
          Jalan Jend. Sudirman Kav. 42-43
          Tromolpos 94
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               KANPUSBRI                       62521
               Jakarta, Indonesia              444574
                                               45590
    For BBD:
          Bank Bumi Daya
          P.O. Box 106
          Jakarta 10002, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               BEDELUAR                        61117 BDULN IA
               Jakarta, Indonesia              61122 BDULN IA
                                               61340 BDULN IA
    For BEII:
          Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
          JL. Lapangan Setasiun No. 1
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               EXIMINDONESIA                   42729
               Jakarta, Indonesia              42741
                                               42030
    For Bank Niaga:
          Bank Niaga
          Jalan M.H. Thamrin 55
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               NIAGABANK                       44996
               Jakarta, Indonesia              61334
Page  6
    For Bank Duta:
          Bank Duta
          JL. Kebon Sirih 12
          Jakarta 10110, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
          DUTABANK                             48308 BD - JKT
          Jakarta, Indonesia                   49528 BD - JKT
For PDFCI:
          Private Development Finance
            Company of Indonesia
          JL. Abdul Muis 60
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               BEASWASTA                       46778 PDFCI IA
    For UPPINDO:
          Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia
          Jl. Abdul Muis 29
          Jakarta, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                               46343 UPPINDO IA
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BNI 1946,  BDN, BRI, BBD, BEII, Bank Niaga,
Bank Duta, PDFCI and UPPINDO or  by BNI 1946, BDN, BRI, BBD, BEII,
Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, PDFCI and UPPINDO on behalf of the Borrower
under  the  Loan  Agreement,  may  be  taken  or  executed  by its
President Director, or by  such  other  person or persons as their
Board of Managing Directors  shall  designate  in writing, and BNI
1946, BDN,  BRI,  BBD,  BEII,  Bank  Niaga,  Bank  Duta, PDFCI and
UPPINDO shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  sufficient  evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        BANK NEGARA INDONESIA 1946
                        BANK DAGANG NEGARA
                        BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
                        BANK BUMI DAYA
Page  7
                        BANK EKSPOR IMPOR INDONESIA
                        BANK NIAGA
                        BANK DUTA
                        PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF
                        INDONESIA
                        USAHA PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   No expenditures for goods,  civil  works or services required
for an Investment Project shall  be  eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the  purposes  of  the Loan Agreement and this
Agreement, a  free-limit  Sub-loan  shall  be  a  Sub-loan  for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of  the  Loan  which  shall  not  exceed  the  sum  of  $1,500,000
equivalent for BNI  1946,  BDN,  and  BRI, $500,000 equivalent for
BBD, BEII, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, UPPINDO and PDFCI, when added to
any other outstanding amounts financed  or proposed to be financed
out of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan;  provided,  however, that the
foregoing amount of $500,000 may be subject to change by agreement
between the Bank and  each  Participating  Entity after three non-
free-limit Sub-loans have been approved  by the Bank for each such
Participating Entity.
2.   Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Participating
Entities shall not make any Sub-loan:  (a) an amount (i) below the
equivalent of  $100,000,  and  (ii)  exceeding  the  equivalent of
$10,000,000, or in an  amount  which  would exceed such limit when
added to the  amount  of  all  other  Sub-loans  made for the same
Investment Project out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan and (b) to
finance proposed Investment Projects  estimated  to cost more than
the equivalent of $25,000,000.
3.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank  for  approval, the Participating Entities shall
furnish to the Bank an application,  in a form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with: (i)  a  description  of the Investment Enter-
prise and an  appraisal  of  the  Investment  Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;  (ii)  the  proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan, including the  schedule  of amortization of the Sub-
loan; and (iii) such other  information  as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Participating Entities for authori-
zation to make withdrawals from  the  Loan Account in respect of a
free-limit Sub-loan shall  contain:  (i)  a summary description of
the Investment Enterprise and  the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;  and  (ii)  the  terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
Page  8
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1990.
4.   Sub-loans shall be  made  on  terms whereby the Participating
Entity shall  obtain,  by  written  contract  with  the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of  the  Bank  and the Participating Entity,
including, in the case of any Sub-loan the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods, civil works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price,  account  being  taken  also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and  availability  of  maintenance  facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the  case  of civil works and services, of
their quality and the  competence  of  the parties rendering them;
and (ii)  such  goods,  civil  works  and  services  shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall  so request, such goods, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Partici-
pating Entity shall reasonably  request  relating to the foregoing
and to the administration,  operations and financial conditions of
the Investment Enterprise and to  the  benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to  perform  its  obligations under its con-
tract with the Participating Entity.
5.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  to qualify for
obtaining a Sub-loan,  an  Investment Enterprise shall demonstrate
that the  Investment  Project  for  which  the  Sub-loan  is being
requested shall:
     (a)  have the capacity to  export,  by  the  end of the third
year from completion of the  Investment  Project in case of expan-
sion or rehabilitation Investment Projects,  and by the end of the
fifth  year  from  start-up  of  production  for  other Investment
Projects, directly or indirectly,  at  least 40% of the production
attributable to the Investment Project being financed;
     (b)  have a financial rate  of  return  of  not less than the
annual interest rate to be charged to the Investment Enterprise on
the Sub-loan;
     (c)  be in the industry or service sectors, excluding primary
agriculture and mining activities; and
Page  9
     (d)  be financed at least 30% of its total costs from the own
resources of such Investment Enterprise.
