Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4098-HO 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Judicial Branch Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 16, 2005 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4098-HO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF 
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
WHEREAS (B) the Association has received from the Borrower a  letter (Oficio 
No. 448/05) dated May 18, 2005 informing the Bank of the approval of the plan (
Plan de 
Modernización del Poder Judicial 2004-2009) 
for the modernization of the Borrower’s 
Judicial Branch (as hereinafter defined) for 2004-2009 (the Plan) approved by the  
Borrower’s Supreme Court of Justice on May 17, 2005; and 
 WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
Page  3
2
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to 
be financed under the Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of 
the proceeds of its credits.  To that end, if the Association shall at any 
time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of 
such item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to be 
consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions  have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“ADR” means alternate dispute resolution mechanisms; 
(b) 
“AOP” means an annual operating plan referred to in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement; 
(c) 
“CAFTA” means Central American Free Trade Agreement, signed by 
the Borrower on May 28, 2004 and ratified by the Borrower’s legislative branch on 
March 3, 2005; 
(d) 
“Conciliation and Arbitration Law” means 
Ley de Conciliación y 
Arbitraje, 
the Borrower
’s Decree No. 161-2000, dated October 17, 2000 published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 29404 dated February 14, 2001; 
(e) “Constitution” 
means 
C
onstitución Política de Honduras
,
the Borrower’s 
Constitution dated  January 11, 1982, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s Fiscal Year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31 of the same calendar year; 
Page  4
3
(h) 
“Judicial Branch” means 
Poder Judicial
,
the Borrower’s judicial branch 
of government responsible for administering and delivering judicial services in the 
Borrower’s territory, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter XII of the Borrower’s 
Constitution, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Borrower to the Association, containing the Monitoring Indicators (as hereinafter 
defined);  
(j) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means the indigenous and Afro-descendent 
(Garífuna) communities recognized as such by Articles 172, 173 and 346 of the 
Borrower’s Constitution, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“IPDP” means the Borrower’s action plan for improving access to justice 
for Indigenous Peoples under Part C of the Project, as set forth in the Borrower’s 
document published by the Judicial Branch on its website on May 27, 2005; 
(l) “MOF” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and its successor or successors thereto; 
(m) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators to be used in monitoring 
and evaluating the implementation of the Project, as set forth in the Implementation 
Letter; 
(n) 
“NGO” means a non governmental organization established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower that  has been selected by the Judicial Branch to 
enter into partnership arrangements with SCJ to carry out any of the activities under Part 
C.4 of the Project; 
(o) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(p) “PCU” 
means 
Unidad 
Técnica de Reforma del Poder Judicial
 the Project 
coordination unit established and operating within SCJ, pursuant to the provisions of 
Resolution (
Acta)
 No. 31 issued by SCJ dated September 29, 2004 and referred to Section 
3.06 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  5
4
(q) 
“Procurement Plan” means 
Plan General de Adquisiciones
,
the 
Borrower’s procurement plan, dated May 16, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period 
(or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(r)  
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
extended by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed by 
the Association and the Borrower on March 15, 2004; 
(s) 
“Project Year” means each twelve month period during Project 
implementation starting from the day after the Effective Date and ending twelve calendar 
months thereafter, and each subsequent twelve month period thereafter until completion 
of the Project; 
(t) “SCJ” 
means
 Corte Suprema de Justicia
,
the Borrower’s highest ranking 
court established and operating pursuant to Article 303  of the Borrower’s Constitution 
and any of its successor or successors thereto; 
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(v) “Subsidiary 
Agreement” 
means 
Convenio Subsidiario, 
the agreement 
between MOF and SCJ referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, and such terms 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Agreement; 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million Special Drawing Rights (SDR10,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Page  6
5
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account, in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2010 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Page  7
6
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15
 
in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing 
September 15, 2015 and ending March 15, 2025. Each installment shall be five percent 
(5%) of such principal amount. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.09. The President of SCJ, and any person or persons whom he or she 
shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out  the 
Project through SCJ, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical,  auditing, architectural, environmental, 
and social equity standards, on the part both  of the Borrower and SCJ, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project, all with due regard to the provisions of the Plan. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
carry out the Project, through SCJ, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Implementation Letter and the Operational 
Manual; 
(ii) 
enter into an agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement), through 
MOF, with SCJ which shall include provisions, which shall have 
been approved by the Association, including,
 inter alia: 
MOF’s
 
obligation to take all necessary action to delegate the execution 
of the Project to SCJ and promptly transfer to SCJ on an annual 
basis, through budgetary transfers, the proceeds of the Credit, in 
an amount sufficient to carry out Project activities in each 
Project Year; and SCJ’s obligations to use the proceeds of the 
Page  8
7
Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, the 
Implementation Letter  and the Operational Manual; and 
 
(iii) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations, through MOF, 
under the Subsidiary Agreement, in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project. Except as the 
Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MOF, 
or SCJ, as the case may be, shall not amend or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. The Borrower 
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the performance of the 
Borrower, through MOF or SCJ, as the case may be, of any of 
their respective obligations under such agreement or any 
provision thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of 
the Subsidiary Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms 
of this Agreement will prevail. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through SCJ, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SCJ, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the civil works financed under the 
Project in sites, buildings and physical infrastructure owned by and legally titled to the 
Judicial Branch (at the time of initiating the procurement procedure as set forth in the 
Page  9
8
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), and which shall not require the acquisition 
or occupation of new land, buildings or infrastructure, and therefore, shall not cause the 
involuntary resettlement of owners, tenants or occupants of such land, buildings or 
infrastructure. 
 
Section 3.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree:  
(a) 
the Borrower shall, through SCJ, carry out the Project in accordance with 
the terms of a manual, satisfactory to the Association (the Operational Manual). The 
Operational Manual shall include provisions detailing procedures, guidelines and 
standard documents for the carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
following: 
(i) 
(A) 
implementation of the Project including standard 
contractual terms for the procurement of works, goods 
and consultants’ services financed under the Project; and 
(B) 
guidelines for the carrying out of training programs;  
(ii) 
procedures for the monitoring and evaluation of Project 
implementation, including guidelines to conduct annual progress 
reviews as set forth in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; 
(iii) 
procedures and timetable to carry out the IPDP, (including 
implementing agency, budget, public consultations and 
monitoring and evaluation criteria); 
(iv) 
procedures to ensure timely information  to the public and the 
media pertaining to the objectives and implementation of the 
Project; 
(v) 
terms of the environmental impact assessment to be carried out  
by SCJ and submitted to the Association, prior to obtaining the 
Association’s no-objection of any new construction of civil 
works financed under the Credit;  
(vi) 
detailed technical, administrative and control procedures 
pertaining to the adequate and efficient use of vehicles financed 
under the Credit; and 
Page  10
9
(vii) 
institutional arrangements established by SCJ to ensure effective 
inter-institutional and donor coordination throughout Project 
implementation, including terms of reference of the PCU. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Association and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through SCJ, shall: (i) maintain the Operational Manual throughout Project 
implementation; and (ii) not amend, waive, or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, or 
any provision thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and 
those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through 
SCJ, shall maintain, at all times, until the completion of the Project, with qualifications, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association a project coordination unit 
(PCU) which shall be responsible,
 inter alia
,
for: day-to-day Project implementation, 
including procurement, disbursement, financial management, auditing and reporting, 
monitoring and evaluation, as well as, interagency and donor coordination. 
Section 3.07. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through 
SCJ, shall: 
(a) 
prepare in accordance with guidelines detailed in the Operational Manual 
by not later than June 30 in each Project Year, starting on June 30, 2006, and submit to 
the Association an annual operating plan (AOP) satisfactory to the Association, including 
a
description of activities proposed for the upcoming Project Year, a budget, a financial 
plan (detailing the amount of counterpart funds to be provided in such year), the update 
of the Procurement Plan as set forth in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and a training 
plan; 
(b) 
review with the Association said AOP, within two weeks following the 
submission of said plan; and 
(c) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
and achievement of said AOP, based on the views of the Association. 
Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through SCJ, shall during the execution of the Project: 
Page  11
10
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the PCU to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis (in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators) the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, by not later than March 30 in 
each Fiscal Year, a report, in a format satisfactory to the Association, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, which reports shall include: (i) a detailed description of Project activities 
completed during the period preceding the date of said report; and (ii) a detailed progress 
report, including lessons learned during Project implementation, identifying any issue 
that may delay Project implementation and setting out the measures recommended to 
solve such issue and ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by May 31 in each Fiscal Year,  starting on 
May 31, 2006 and until the completion of the Project, the reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, to, 
inter alia
:
(i) evaluate progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Judicial Branch Modernization Plan, including an assessment of the need to adjust, 
update or amend such plan; (ii) assess the timeliness and adequacy of Credit funds 
transferred from MOF to SCJ pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement; 
(iii) exchange views on progress achieved in the implementation of the AOP, during the 
previous year, and proposed activities for the upcoming year; (iv) identify any issue that 
may delay or impede the implementation of the IPDP, and propose any solutions to 
resolve such issues; (v) review the quality and efficacy of Project activities; (vi) evaluate 
the quality and impact of the training and knowledge sharing programs (including study 
tours for judicial staff), financed under the Project with a view to ensure wide 
dissemination of lessons learned and good practices; and (vii) seek the views of civil 
society organizations and relevant donor agencies active in the judicial sector in 
Honduras, with regard to the implementation of the Judicial Branch Modernization Plan 
and ensure effective Project coordination; and 
(d) 
after each of the preceding reviews, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports
 and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
Page  12
11
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, through SCJ, carry out the IPDP pursuant to 
terms of reference, procedures and timetable satisfactory to the Association as set forth in 
the Operational Manual.
 
Page  13
12
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the PCU, shall establish and thereafter 
maintain throughout Project implementation, a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
PCU, shall: 
Page  14
13
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through the PCU, 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.    
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  15
14
(a) 
The Borrower, or any authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken any 
action concerning the Judicial Branch that would materially and adversely affect, in the 
opinion of the Association, the ability of SCJ to carry out the Judicial Branch 
Modernization Plan; and 
(b) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Borrower, through MOF, or SCJ will be able to carry out any of their 
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any of the events detailed in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement shall have been established and become operational, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association; 
(b) 
 the Operational Manual shall have been adopted by SCJ and approved  
by the Association; and 
(c) 
the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SCJ. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and SCJ, and the Subsidiary Agreement is legally binding on the Borrower and 
SCJ in accordance with its terms. 
 
Page  16
15
Section 6.03. The date February 14, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
 
Dirección de Crédito Público
 
Avenida Cervantes, Barrio El Jazmín 
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 
 
Honduras, C.A. 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
HACIENDA 
    (504) 
237-4142 
 
Tegucigalpa 
 
With copy to: 
 
Supreme Court of Justice 
 
Palacio de Justicia 
 
Centro Cívico Gubernamental 
 
Colonia Miraflores Sur 
 
Intersección Boulevard República de Kuwait y Boulevard de las 
 
Fuerzas Armadas 
 
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C., Francisco Morazan, 
 
Honduras, C.A. 
 
Page  17
16
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  18
17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
By /s/ William Chong Wong 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin American and the Caribbean Region 
 
Honorary Witness: 
By
/
s/ Vilma Morales 
President of the Supreme Court of Justice 
 
Page  19
18
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1) 
Civil works under Parts 
1,525,000 
 
100% 
 
A.1 (c), B.1 (a) (iii), B.2 
 
(b) (iv) and C.1 (b) 
 
 
of
the Project 
 
 
  
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services: 
1,390,000 
 
100% 
 
(a) under Parts A, B, and C 
 
 
of the Project, excluding 
 
audits; and 
 
 
(b) under Part D of the Project, 
860,000 
 
100% 
 
including audits 
 
 
(3)   
 Goods (including vehicles) 
3,480,000 
 
100% 
 
(4) Training 
 
1,360,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Operating 
costs 
67,000 
 
100% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
265,000 
 
(7) 
Refunding of 
1,053,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 
Advance
 
this Agreement. 
 
________  
 
 
TOTAL 10,000,000 
 
======== 
Page  20
19
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than 
consultants’ services ) incurred by SCJ for: (i) travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by 
non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility rentals and other 
expenditures related to the organization of training events; and (iv) training material 
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise covered 
under this paragraph; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
PCU (none of which would have been incurred absent the Project) on account of Project 
implementation and supervision, including: (i) office equipment and supplies; (ii) 
communication and insurance costs; (iii) office administration costs and utilities; (iv) in-
country travel, per diem and supervision costs; and (v) fees of locally contracted 
consultant personnel (excluding government staff).  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (1) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, in respect of new civil works, unless the 
Association has been furnished with documentary evidence, satisfactory to the 
Association, confirming that: (i) an environmental assessment pursuant to the provisions 
of the Association’s policy (OP 4.01) has been conducted; and (ii) mitigation measures 
have been developed, in the event that adverse impacts are identified by said assessment, 
including 
,
inter alia,
 the new sites have been selected pursuant to adequate site screening 
criteria and environmental construction guidelines have been developed (bidding 
documents for contractors shall include specific clauses for environmental requirement of 
works), all satisfactory to the Association. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts works, goods and 
consultants’ services, training, and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  21
20
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of the SCJ 
to implement the Judicial Branch Modernization Plan (the Plan), by improving the 
efficiency of judicial services, enhancing judicial transparency and accountability and 
promoting an equitable access to justice, especially for the most disadvantaged groups.   
 
Part A
:
Improvement of the Efficiency of Judicial Services
Strengthening of the operational capabilities of the Judicial Branch to more 
efficiently process cases, issue judgments and review appeals, through the carrying out of 
a
program of actions detailed in the Plan, including, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
 
1. 
The development and implementation of streamlined judicial processes, through: 
 
(a) 
the design and implementation of model systems aimed at modernizing 
the organizational and functional  capabilities of the courts; 
 
(b) 
the design and installation of automated information systems aimed at 
improving the quality of: (i) judicial management; (ii) the 
courts’ enforcement functions; 
and (iii) the registration systems for court appointed experts; and  
 
(c) 
the upgrading and rehabilitation of selected existing courts buildings and 
infrastructure. 
 
2. 
The improvement of the courts’ capacity to program and monitor the utilization 
and management of resources, through: 
 
(a)  
the development of administrative procedures to improve the quality of 
court operations; 
 
(b) 
the development and installation of an integrated automated system to 
support the administration, financial and human resource management functions of the 
courts; and 
 
(c) 
the development and implementation of a series of public information 
activities aimed at integrating a service orientation approach in the delivery of judicial 
services. 
 
Page  22
21
Part B
:
Enhancing Judicial Accountability and Transparency
The development of standards aimed at enhancing the accountability and 
transparency of the Judicial Branch, through the carrying out of a program of actions 
detailed in the Plan, including, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
 
1. 
The creation of career paths for judicial and administrative personnel, through: 
 
(a) 
the development and implementation of: (i) criteria for hiring, selection 
and promotion of the human resource management capabilities; (ii) a system for 
performance and ethical behavior evaluation; and (iii) strengthening of the human 
resources management capabilities of the SCJ,
 through the expansion of existing SCJ’s 
buildings;  
 
(b) 
the development and implementation of organizational, curricular, and 
institutional models for the provision of entry level and in-service training for judicial 
and court administrative personnel;  
 
(c) 
the design and space implementation of capacity building programs in 
specialized areas in, 
inter alia
:
(i) legal and technical aspects pertaining to the 
implementation of CAFTA; (ii) enhancing awareness of gender, cultural and social 
diversity among judicial and court personnel; and (iii) promotion of attitudinal change 
among Judicial Branch personnel;  
 
(d) 
the development and implementation of e-learning programs; and 
 
(e) 
the establishment of partnership arrangements  with academic institutions 
for the provision of judicial training. 
 
2. 
The strengthening of the openness and transparency of the Judicial Branch, 
through: 
 
(a) 
the implementation of procedural and practical mechanisms aimed at 
monitoring and auditing institutional performance of courts; and 
 
(b) 
the implementation of institutional mechanisms aimed at improving the 
disclosure of judicial information to the public-at-large, including 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
development of a disclosure policy; (ii) the development of e-justice programs; (iii) the 
dissemination of information on administrative and judicial operations and procurement 
procedures and decisions; (iv) the construction, equipping and furbishing of public 
information centers and kiosks; and (v) the issuance of public reports to disseminate the 
results of internal corruption cases. 
 
Page  23
22
Part C
:
Promoting Equitable Access to Justice
Expanding access to justice services for the Honduran society at-large, especially 
the disadvantaged segments of the population, through the carrying out of a program of 
actions detailed in the Plan, including, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
 
1. 
The development and piloting of efficient and peaceful conflict resolution 
mechanisms, including: 
 
(a) 
the effective implementation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Law  
and the promotion of ADR with a view to expanding their practical application, taking 
into account the needs of the business community;  
 
(b) 
the revision of existing administrative and operational mandates of the 
first instance courts (
Juzgados de Paz
)
in selected municipalities, including the use of 
ADR, and the rehabilitation of existing buildings for such courts; 
 
(c) 
the development of new operational and procedural guidelines for the 
delivery of judicial services, including revised judicial functions and competencies for the 
courts, and the identification of concrete proposals to promote the extra-judicial 
resolution of non-contentious cases; and 
 
(d) 
the design and implementation of a mobile court pilot program, through 
the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of vehicles (buses) especially 
adapted to the needs of said program. 
 
2. 
The development and piloting of a program of activities aimed at promoting a 
greater awareness of the special needs of disadvantaged groups, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the promotion of an equitable access to justice for women,  through the 
provision of technical assistance, training and logistical support and the acquisition of 
vehicles (minivan or four-wheel drive) for family and domestic violence courts and the 
provision of justice services for low income female users of civil courts; 
 
(b) 
the incorporation of a youth focus in the administration of justice, 
through the carrying out of technical studies and legal research on youth and violence;  
 
(c) 
the development and implementation of actions and programs detailed in 
the IPDP with a view to incorporating the needs of Indigenous Peoples in the provision of 
judicial services; and 
 
(d) 
the development and implementation of a program of activities to 
improve the efficiency and adequacy of judicial services required by small businesses. 
 
3. 
The development and implementation of capacity building programs for public 
defenders in civil jurisdictions.  
Page  24
23
4. 
The development and implementation of outreach programs to enhance 
awareness of citizens’ legal rights and responsibilities, through the establishment of 
partnership arrangements between the Judicial Branch and NGOs. 
 
Part D
:
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1. 
Improving the Project coordination, management and monitoring and evaluation 
capabilities of the PCU, through:  
 
(a) 
the strengthening of the technical, coordination, financial management, 
technical and procurement capabilities of the PCU staff, through the provision of 
technical assistance, training, operational costs and the acquisition of vehicles (minivan 
or four wheel drive) to conduct field work and monitor the implementation of pilot 
activities financed under the Project; 
 
(b) 
the development and implementation of benchmarks to monitor and 
evaluate Project implementation and performance;  
 
(c) 
the carrying out of studies on judicial reform priority topics;  
 
(d) 
the publication of annual progress reports detailing Project achievements; 
and 
 
(e) 
the development of knowledge sharing programs for judicial and court 
staff to review good practices on judicial reform aimed at building institutional capacity, 
facilitating institutional change, and promoting partnerships with other judiciaries. 
 
2.  
The carrying out of Project audits. 
 
*** 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2010. 
 
Page  25
24
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
1. 
All works, goods (including vehicles) and services (other than 
consultants services) shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the 
Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
2. 
Without any limitations to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or in the 
Procurement Guidelines, the following shall expressly govern the procurement of works, 
goods (including vehicles) and services (other than consultants services) referred to in 
Part A of this Section: 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance 
with criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components. 
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required 
to: 
 
(i) 
be registered in the Borrower’s territory; 
 
(ii) 
have a representative in the Borrower’s territory; 
 
(iii) 
be associated with suppliers or contractors of the Borrower’s 
territory; and 
 
(iv) 
certify that, in their country of origin, suppliers or contractors of 
the Borrower’s territory are allowed to participate in competitive 
bidding procedures under equal conditions with other bidders. 
 
(c) 
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts. 
Page  26
25
B. 1. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
2. 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Consultant Guidelines, the following shall expressly govern the procurement of 
consultants’ services referred to in Section II of this Schedule: 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of consultants of the Borrower’s territory for the 
services being procured; and 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with 
associations of the Borrower’s territory or to be associated with consulting firms of the 
Borrower’s territory as a condition for participating in any selection process. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods (including 
Vehicles)  and services (other than Consultants Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
(a) Works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 
equivalent per contract; and (b) goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding.  
 
Page  27
26
2. Shopping
.
(a) Works estimated to cost less that $150,000 per contract; and (b) 
goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Page  28
27
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Page  29
28
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
for the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount of $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Annex, provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,600,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
Page  30
29
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify; and 
(ii) 
prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
Page  31
30
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
