Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB498 
Project Name 
JUDICIAL BRANCH MODERNIZATION PROJECT 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Judicial Reform (100%) 
Project ID 
P081516 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS 
Implementing Agency 
SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 2, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June, 2004 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Honduras faces serious challenges in reducing poverty, including a system of justice that 
historically has suffered from weak institutional capacity, a limited focus on the needs of the 
poor, and accusations of inefficiency and corruption.    A new dynamism for change led by the 
recently appointed Supreme Court and supported by a reformist national administration offers a 
real opportunity to reinvigorate the justice reform effort. 
 
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of May 2003 stresses the need to modernize the 
judiciary,
1
including fighting corruption, promoting judicial independence, and improving the 
overall efficiency and efficacy of the judicial system.  Access to justice needs to be improved by 
employing inexpensive and expedient conflict resolution procedures and other services targeted 
at disadvantaged population groups (particularly women, indigenous populations and the poor). 
Youth violence and crime/security problems also need to be addressed through coordinated 
social solutions and justice sector measures. 
 
Honduras has been pursuing judicial reform since the early 1990s, largely promoted and funded 
by external donors and carried out by different justice sector institutions including the Public 
Prosecutor’s Office (or Public Ministry), Judicial Branch, and Human Rights Ombudsman. In 
order to promote human rights and strengthen democratic institutions the focus has been on legal 
reforms to the structure and content of 
criminal
 procedure and the institutions responsible for the 
enforcement of laws under a revised criminal procedure code.  Other areas (civil, commercial, 
family, labor matters etc. which are about 50 percent of the caseload and resource used) have 
received little or no attention. Reform management has reflected a multitude of donors providing 
1
Some judicial context features: 
Population
,
6.6 million, of which 51 percent is female, and 45 percent is under the age of 14. 
Judiciary size
,
538 
judges 
 
(of which 323 are justices of the peace, majority of whom non-lawyers) or about 8.0  judges per 100,000 population, support staff about 
3000; caseload, about 80,000 new cases per year, of which about 50 percent are criminal, 35 percent are civil and family and the rest are labor, 
administrative and other matters;  About half of this caseload is concentrated in San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa, due to geographic distribution 
of first instance courts and other factors (e.g. concentration of lawyers that are in practice). Budget,  annual  allocation for the year 2002 was 
494688331 Lempiras, or US$28.1 Million 
Page  2
mixed signals and technical advice.  Strong on studies, the process has been incomplete in 
implementation and many believe lacking in an integral medium term
2
vision. 
 
Not surprisingly, the organizational capacity of the Judicial Branch at all levels and in all 
functions remains weak, many lack access to justice (especially women and disadvantaged 
groups, who rarely even seek legal redress from the courts), and corruption is perceived to be 
widespread in the lower courts.
3
A
general lack of transparency and effectiveness is hurting 
investor and business confidence (which is particularly important at a time when free trade 
agreements are being discussed in the region) and preventing the Judicial Branch from deterring 
family violence and youth crime. Meanwhile debate continues on how to balance the long-term 
capacity building needs of the judiciary (usually a prerequisite for good service provision) with 
the need to quickly increase citizen access to the judiciary.   
 
The proposed Project would bring the Bank’s knowledge and know-how in designing and 
implementing successful judicial reform strategies in Central America and elsewhere.  Members 
of the new Honduran Supreme Court have reviewed these efforts and have expressed their desire 
to emulate that reform strategy.  The Project would concentrate on the Court as the rector 
institution for the judicial branch in order to build its capacity to plan and implement system-
wide reforms and better govern the sector.  It would promote reform through an integrated and 
participatory manner involving all stakeholders—judges, court staff, users and civil society.  
Although time consuming, such a process pays real dividends in terms of better defining 
problems and priorities, identifying home-grown solutions and/or refinements, and promoting 
reform ownership, public legitimacy, and sustainability.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Project’s overall development objective is to improve Judicial Branch performance, 
especially with respect to efficiency, transparency, and access.  Despite the many public 
demands and institutional challenges, however, decisions will be required on the proper 
sequencing and prioritization of reforms so as to avoid institutional capacity, financial, or 
political overload.  Based on preliminary discussions it is expected the Project would focus on 
three intermediate development objectives: (i) build Judicial Branch governance capacity.  The 
mandate of the current Supreme Court runs through 2009 so the opportunity exists to strengthen 
its capacity to better manage its portion of the sector, including the establishment of planning and 
administrative structures, promotion of inter-institutional coordination with other justice sector 
institutions and civil society, setting judicial career norms, and promoting professional 
development of judges and staff; (ii) build confidence and trust of citizens by implementing basic 
first stage anti-corruption, transparency and accountability initiatives with stakeholder input; and 
2
About US$40-60 million in grants and loans has been supplied by donors to improve the justice sector as a whole over the past decade. There 
have been investments in infrastructure (about 80 courthouses were built in rural areas for justice of the peace courts, two buildings in San Pedro 
Sula and Tegucigalpa), however most lack the technologies and tools to support judges and other judicial staff. There has been investment in 
computers and training to support criminal procedural reform, yet implementation has occurred only in a small number of courts. Incomplete 
initiatives also include advocacy funding to NGOs and other groups that did not result in adequate response and will to reform by the judiciary, as 
user confidence has remained low due to corruption and the lack of professionalism within the judiciary. Early efforts pushed with little or no 
local participation by stakeholders caused additional resistance to change by judges and a loss of confidence in donor assistance by civil society 
groups. This was at the time when political will for reform was neither high nor deeply enough embedded in the institutions to be reformed. 
3
According to WBI survey, 63% of users have serious doubts about the impartiality and credibility of the judges.  
Page  3
(iii) improve access to justice for high priority target populations by designing, piloting, and 
extending selected access to justice measures.   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Subject to the results of a participatory Project preparation process early in 2004, the proposed 
Project would be divided into three interrelated components:  
 
(i) Strengthening the Organizational Capacity of the Judicial Branch.  
Organizational capacity for service delivery would be enhanced by better judicial governance 
and human resource policies and modernized Supreme Court operations (Est. component cost 
US$7.5 million): 
 
a. 
Judicial Governance and Professional Development
 would be improved by: (i) 
strengthening planning, administration, and inter-institutional coordination; (ii) 
developing and implementing a judicial and administrative career for judges and 
staff, including training in new economic and competition laws, gender policies, 
and international good practices in judicial reform/change management; (iii) 
strengthening supervision of notaries and other legal professionals and court 
experts (e.g. court appointed land valuation specialists, family counselors, 
auditors); (iv) developing alternative sources of funding to provide legal and 
judicial services (e.g. streamlining, automating and decentralizing criminal court 
records offices (
antecedents penales
)
and introducing service fees). 
 
b.
Modernization of the Supreme Court 
would be accomplished by: (i) 
streamlining the operation of all Supreme Court chambers, introducing case 
management and automated decision publication systems and linking them with 
appeal and first instance courts and public information centers; and (ii) promoting 
knowledge-sharing and partnerships between the Supreme Court and other courts 
within the LAC region and elsewhere which have or are undergoing reform 
processes, as well as networks and agencies (on matters such as regional 
integration, distance learning and citizen information).  Efforts to promote 
transparent financial management systems (SIAFI) and better human resources 
systems in the public sector (efforts supported by the Bank under Credit 3414-
HO) would be expanded to include the Judicial Branch. 
 
(ii) Anticorruption and Transparency Support
.
Promoting transparency and anti-corruption mechanisms within the Judicial Branch by: (i) 
strengthening the disciplinary system; (ii) developing mechanisms to monitor court 
performance through citizen feedback; (iii) carrying out periodic reviews of implementation 
progress with civil society participation, and; (iv) promoting partnerships with other 
institutions to fight corruption in the public sector (e.g.  Ministerio Publico, Tribunal de 
Cuentas, etc.). (Est. component cost US$2.5 million) 
 
(iii) Access to Justice and Citizen Information
.
Page  4
Improving the access of women and  disadvantaged groups to formal and alternative dispute 
resolution systems and legal and judicial information would be supported through pilot programs 
advanced in partnership with public and private institutions (such as 
Instituto Nacional de la 
Mujer
,
specialized women’s NGOs, donors and citizen associations). Potential activities include: 
(i) introducing pilot legal aid centers and mobile courts catering to women and poor communities 
especially affected by family violence; (ii) setting up public information offices and conducting  
public legal education campaigns on citizens' rights and responsibilities (also in indigenous 
languages); (iii) conducting research on youth crime/violence  and upgrading juvenile court 
services (including programs for counseling and education); (iv) reviewing and  re-mapping the 
jurisdiction of lower courts according to objective demand and socio-geographic criteria, with 
special attention to justice of the peace courts in rural areas (home to about half of the population) 
and first instance courts (in family, juvenile, business and labor matters) in the urban centers of 
San Pedro Sula
 and 
Tegucigalpa
,
and; (v) conducting applied research to address problems of 
access to justice (to evaluate pilots noted above and prepare a follow-on project) of both who exit 
the system prematurely (partly reflected by high proportion of abandoned cases) and who lack 
access in the first place (for example, women working in 
maquiladoras
 are faced with labor 
problems which generally remain unattended). (Est. component cost US$5.0 million) 
 
The Supreme Court would set up a Judicial Branch Modernization Commission with 
representatives of the different Supreme Court chambers and lower courts to oversee 
implementation of the Project. The commission would invite state agencies and civil society 
representatives to participate in Project preparation and implementation.  As part of the process 
past reforms would be analyzed and lessons developed, priorities set and strategic choices made.  
The Project would complement assistance provided by other donors
4
and a major focus of the 
Court and Bank would be enhancing donor coordination and integration of the various externally 
funded projects.  Project funding is expected to be divided between consultancies (40% for 
reform design, implementation, knowledge sharing, dissemination and training), goods (30% for 
information and communication technology, vehicles, training and office equipment etc.), and 
works (30% for selected construction and rehabilitation of court facilities). 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The operation is a category C project. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 1 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
OTHERS 
15 
1
Total 17 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Waleed Haider Malik 
Title: Lead Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
4
IDB, about US$6 million over the next five years [of the US$30 million Loan for the different justice sector institutions] for Judicial Branch 
courthouse construction in rural areas etc.; USAID, about US$2.5 million over the next three years for Judicial Branch staff training in criminal 
justice reform and technical assistance; and about  US$1.5 million total from Canada, Sweden, and Spain for training and technical assistance to 
different justice sector institutions. 
Page  5
Tel: (202) 473-9237 
Fax: (202) 522-3134 
Email: Wmalik@worldbank.org
 
