Strengthening the Justice Sector in Honduras
                                                                                                        93576
                                                                                                        May 10, 2012




 Strengthening the Justice Sector in Honduras


Overview
A World Bank project in Honduras has helped make justice accessible to many people who
previously struggled with an inefficient, outdated, opaque judicial system. Through a range of
activities – from training judicial and administrative staff to modernizing financial systems and
refurbishing facilities – the project has helped to open the judicial branch to more than 1.9
million Hondurans in the project areas.


Challenge
At the time the World Bank designed this project, the
                                                                     More Results
Honduran judicial system was hampered by a range of
constraints that curbed its ability to operate effectively and
                                                                     The project has helped to open
with the necessary transparency and accountability. As a             the judicial branch to more than
result, many Hondurans had inadequate access to justice.
Specifically, the main challenges for the justice branch in
Honduras that were identified as part of the project                 1.9
                                                                     million
preparation included weak institutional capacities, reflected in
poor budgeting and inadequate planning implementation, the
courts’ inability to resolve cases in a timely manner, and
dilapidated infrastructure and overall lack of information.          Hondurans in the project areas
Weak transparency and accountability gave rise to
perceptions of corruption, and a lack of inter-institutional
coordination, and Hondurans faced limited access to the
justice of peace courts and to alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms, among many other barriers to justice.                    US$16.7
Approach                                                             million
An investment credit from the International Development              was the IDA contributation for
                                                                     the project
Association (IDA) underpinned the Judicial Branch
Modernization Plan 2004-2009 as well as the development of
a five-year strategic plan for the judicial sector out to 2016.
IDA pursued an integrated approach, encompassing both the           LEARN MORE
demand and supply sides of the justice sector, and helped             More information about the
complement the work of other donors who were focusing on              Honduras Judicial Branch
one or the other of these dimensions, but not on both.                Modernization Project
Selecting the Judicial Branch as the single target of the
operation was also a strategic decision as well as to directly
support the non-criminal jurisdictions (civil, commercial, labor
and family).
Results
The IDA project led to a number of positive outcomes in all three target areas. On institutional
strengthening:

      Average length-of-case resolution in non-criminal cases dropped to 612 days in 2011
      from 1,251 days in 2004. Quality of service in targeted courts rated as satisfactory by 96
      percent of users (comprising 70 percent very good and 26 percent good).

      New, integrated financial management systems and planning, monitoring and evaluation
      systems were developed and implemented. Six human resources management
      processes were redesigned for both judicial and administrative staff, including
      classification of positions, selection of personnel, performance evaluation, and personnel
      audit.

      Eighty-two Judges and 470 administrative staff were trained in new management
      models, strategic and operational planning filing systems, and total quality management
      (motivation, quality service to judicial users, etc.)

      Additionally, 535 out of 753 of judges (71 percent), and 1467 of 1765 of staff members
      (83 percent) were trained in the frontier judicial topics selected by the project. Training in
      the new Civil Procedures Code was also provided to 81 percent of public defenders.
      Altogether, the project provided 61,515 hours of training to 6,708 participants.

      Nine Unified Trial Courts in the Judicial Centers of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula
      were remodeled, and the Multi-purpose Justice Services Center in Tegucigalpa
      refurbished, including office equipment, hardware, and software for the remodeled or
      refurbished offices.

On transparency and accountability:

      Business and citizen users of the courts targeted by the project had better perceptions
      of the judicial branch as evidenced by a survey conducted in partnership with the
      Honduran Council of Private Enterprise, COHEP and the Tegucigalpa Chamber of
      Commerce and Industry in 2010.  Less than 50 percent considered the judicial branch to
      not be fair or did not trust the institution.

      Twenty-five percent of all judges were selected, retained, or promoted on the basis of
      transparent merit-based competition.

      Forty percent of administrative staff were evaluated and classified.

      Twelve information kiosks were established to provide information such as case status,
      how to access the judicial system, steps to present a claim, relevant laws, and court
      locations, providing services to approximately 200 users per day.

      Thirty-six procurement processes were published in newspapers and disseminated
      through the judicial branch’s information kiosks in a way that could be monitored by
      non-governmental organizations. No complaints were received.

      Twenty-one public meetings were undertaken in both urban and rural settings, with the
      participation of 4,911 civil society representatives

On access to justice:

      Access to the courts covered by the project increased, with 40 percent of the population
      having contact with justices of the peace courts in the so called Poverty Corridor
      (against a project target of 20 percent).

      Six justice of the peace courts tested a new management model in the provision of
      justice services located in the Honduras Poverty Corridor to improve access to rural
       poor, and Afro-Honduran and indigenous communities. Additionally, 233,712 vulnerable
       individuals received justice services from the targeted courts, an average of 58,428 a
       year.

       Three mobile justices of peace courts were established and provided services to low-
       income neighborhoods in Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula, and Choluteca. Sixty percent of
       their users are women and 63 percent were illiterate or with only primary education.

       The Public Defense Directorate was strengthened to provide free legal aid to 59,354
       low-income adults, including at-risk youth.

       Awareness-raising campaigns on domestic violence issues reached 3,938 community
       leaders, of whom 2,110 (54 percent) were women. Another 246 Afro-Honduran
       community leaders were trained in access to justice and gender awareness, and 149
       indigenous peoples’ leaders received training in access to justice for indigenous women.



Bank Contribution
IDA contributed US$16.7 million to the project.


Partners
The project was financed by the World Bank and implemented by the Supreme Court of
Justice of Honduras.


Moving Forward
While there will not be a direct follow-up operation financed by the World Bank, the priorities
for continued judicial branch modernization are included in the government’s Judicial Sector
Strategy for 2011-16. Suggestions for areas for future support are also included in the project’s
Implementation Completion and Results Report.


Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the institutional strengthening and access to justice components of
the project were the population served by the courts in the project areas – approximately 1.94
million citizens. A total of 18 courts were targeted by the project. The beneficiaries of the
transparency and accountability component were all Honduran citizens as the activities were
designed to strengthen the capacity of the Supreme Court of Justice at the national level.
“The project helped to design a new Judicial Branch Strategic Plan 2011-2016, with a view to
ensuring that, based on the progress made, the judicial branch will continue the process of
innovation, and institutional modernization, as well as consolidating its efficiency, effectiveness
and transparency, so as to deserve public confidence based on the ongoing pursuit of
excellence,” said Jorge Rivera Aviles, the Chief of Justice of Honduras, at the closing of the
project “The Supreme Court of Justice considers that the project laid the foundation of an
internal change process of the judicial branch, aimed at increasing institutional capacity,
improving the judicial management, and promoting equitable access of the public to justice
services.”.
