Report No. PID7365
Project Name                     Rwanda-Economic Recovery Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       RWPE57294
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 158,
Kigali
Phone: (250) 75438
Fax: (250) 77581
Date of PID                      February 11, 1999
Appraisal Date                   January 25-February 8, 1999
Board Date                       March 9, 1999
Country Background
1.      Rwanda is recovering from tragic human and economic destruction that has
few, if any parallels. The genocide and civil war of 1994 destroyed the
country's social fabric, its human resource base, institutional capacity and
economic and social infrastructure. Economic activity declined by about 50
percent. Since the genocide, the Government, with the support from the
international community, has worked to restore peace and revive and stabilize
the economy. However, the people, especially those in the northwest of the
country, continue to be victimized by violent conflict. The outbreak of civil
war in neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in July 1998 has made
more difficult the tasks of ending the insurgency in the northwest of Rwanda,
and bringing stability, peace and development to Rwanda and the great lakes
region.
2.      Despite the difficult socio-political environment and the limited
capacity of the Government, Rwanda's progress on the economic and social
fronts since the genocide of 1994 has been remarkable. The economy has been
stabilized and is continuing to recover strongly from the massive decline in
1994, and economic reform is underway. Following the 50 percent decline in
1994, real GDP growth was 37 percent in 1995, and an average of 12 percent in
1996 and 1997. The estimate of real GDP growth for 1998 is 10 percent. As a
result of stringent fiscal and monetary policies, inflationary pressures have
been contained, and the inflation rate has declined from 62 percent in 1994 to
2.5 percent in 1998. The economic reform program goes in parallel with the
efforts to achieve and maintain peace, rebuild social capital, and enhance
national reconciliation.
Credit Objectives and Description
3.      The proposed IDA credit would, in parallel with funding from other
multilateral agencies and bilateral donors, support the Government of Rwanda's
economic reform program to consolidate the economic recovery and stability
underway and to begin to build the foundation for sustainable economic and
social development and reduce poverty. A Policy Framework Paper (PFP), which



set out a 3-year program of policy and institutional reform, was developed by
the Government in collaboration with the staff of the Bank and the IMF, and
was distributed to the Executive Directors of the Bank in June 1998. In the
same month, the IMF approved a three year Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) arrangement to support the reform program.
4.      The reform program builds on the past efforts to revive, stabilize and
reform the conflict-torn economy. Since 1995, the Government has liberalized
the trade and exchange regimes, interest rates, coffee marketing and business
registration, abolished non-tariff barriers, drastically reduced external
tariffs, simplified the tax code and strengthened revenue administration. In
addition, the independence of the central bank has been enhanced and a draft
law to liberalize the financial sector and strengthen bank supervision has
been drafted and is under consideration by the National Assembly. The programs
of privatization of state owned enterprises and reform of public
administration are underway.
5.      Over the next three years, the Government intends strengthen
macroeconomic management and deepen structural reforms. The key areas of
structural reforms are: to develop agriculture and rural markets; enhance the
role of women; promote private sector; and reform the public sector. Specific
reform measures in agriculture include the removal of the export tax on
coffee, the increase in tea producer prices and the privatization of tea
factories, the adoption of a new land policy to provide security of tenure,
encourage better land use and the development of land markets, and the
liberalization of the distribution and pricing of agricultural inputs, to
enhance the use of modern inputs by farmers. On gender issues, the civil code
will be amended and the land adopted to give women the right to inherit and
own property. In addition, the government will prepare and adopt a
comprehensive plan to eliminate other forms of discrimination against women
and enhance their access to economic services and opportunities.
6.      The focus of private sector development is to establish a liberal
institutional, legal, and policy environment to accelerate private sector
activity and enhance external competitiveness. These changes are being
supplemented by active promotion and facilitation of private investment and
trade, the improvement of government/private sector dialogue on development
issues, and the promotion of small-and medium-size enterprises in urban and
rural areas. Public sector reform is aimed at reducing the role of the state
and improving its effectiveness in delivering public services. This is
following three tracks: the privatization of state owned enterprises, the
reform of the civil service, and the reform of the budget to focus public
expenditure on priorities, particularly human resource development, the rural
areas, and the poor.
7.      The privatization of state enterprises will create employment and
contribute to government revenues by bringing back into production, idle
assets previously managed by parastatals. It will also help to attract private
investment to Rwanda, reduce the role of the state and broaden ownership and
control of productive assets. Budget reforms will ensure that the budget
process is open and consultative, decentralized, comprehensive and
transparent, and promotes value for money. To ensure accountability in public
financial operations, the Government plans to establish an Anti-Corruption
Bureau and strengthen the recently established Office of Auditor-General. In
parallel, a Central Tender Board has been established to reduce waste,
- 2 -



inefficiency and corruption in the procurement of supplies and materials.
8.      The authorities consider the reform program necessary for consolidating
the ongoing economic recovery, laying the foundation for private-sector led
growth and agricultural and rural development, and essential for enhancing the
process of national reconciliation. Furthermore, the program will contribute
to Rwanda's economy making the transition, de facto and de jure, from state
control to a market-based orientation, necessary for opening up economic
opportunities to all Rwandese. The reform program is an ambitious one,
considering the many other difficult challenges that Rwanda faces, and the
limited capacity of the Government. However, the program is doable provided
implementation is approached with flexibility, in a way that it does not
exacerbate the tensions in the already fragile society.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The implementation of the reform program is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact. No environmental assessment is required and the
credit is therefore placed in Category C.
Poverty Focus
10.     The reform program has a strong poverty focus. Immediate action has been
taken to effectively raise the producer prices of coffee and tea, the two main
sources of cash income for the poor rural dwellers, resulting in income
transfers to the rural poor. Measures to be taken under the program will
increase tea production and revive the coffee sector, ensuring a sustained
growth in rural incomes. The establishment of a sustainable pricing and
distribution framework for agricultural inputs will enable farmers to adopt
modern inputs in production, raising productivity and incomes. The
privatization of the largely dormant state enterprise sector will bring their
assets into production, creating jobs and improving the provision of goods and
services. The reform program will bring improvements in public expenditure
management and shift resources into education and health programs that benefit
the poor.
Program Financing and Implementation
11.     At the donor meeting in Stockholm in June 1998, The African Development
Bank (AfDB), Canada, the European Union, the IDA, the Netherlands, Norway,
Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States pledged the sum
US$250 million to support the 3 year reform program. Also in June 1998, the
IMF approved a 3-year ESAF arrangement of an SDR71 million and the AfDB
approved a Structural Adjustment Credit of an equivalent of US$20 million.
Donor support has however weakened as a result of Rwanda's military
involvement in the civil war in the DRC which broke out in July 1997. However,
the Government has assured the donors of its commitment to work for a
negotiated end to the civil war in the DRC. Most of the donors have concluded
that the withdrawal of support for the reform program would undermine all the
efforts of the last four years to restore peace in Rwanda and revive economic
activity. Moreover, it would not enhance the prospects for the peaceful
resolution of the conflicts in Rwanda and the region. Consequently, these
donors have resumed their support for the reform program.
12.     The World Bank regards Rwanda as a special case for international
- 3 -



assistance. Exceptional international assistance would enable Rwanda overcome
the legacies of the genocide and promote socio-economic development. The Bank
supports the Government's economic reform program. and, in recognition of the
fragile social situation in Rwanda, the ERC has limited and flexible
conditionality. This approach gives the Government the flexibility to
implement the program and avoid exacerbating tensions. The proposed IDA credit
of an equivalent of US$75 million will be disbursed in three tranches, with an
initial tranche on effectiveness, and two tranches tied to progress in
implementing the reform program.
13.     The proceeds of the credit will finance imports of Rwanda while the
counterpart funds (domestic currency equivalent) will be made available for
financing programs in the national budget. The implementing agency will be the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MINICOFIN). The Government has set
up a Technical Implementation Committee, headed by the MINICOFIN to guide and
monitor implementation of the reform program. The ministries of commerce,
agriculture, public service, health, education and gender and social affairs,
and the BNR are represented in the committee.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 19, 1999.
- 4 -



