Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7292R-W
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR53.0 MILLION
TO
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
March 8, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                                 Rwanda Franc (RwF)
US$ 1.00                                                      RwF313.3 (1998)
SDR 1                                                         US$1.416
SYSTEM OF WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric                                                        US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                                   3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)                                               2.47 acres (a)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                       African Development Bank
BNR                        Banque Nationale du Rwanda (central bank)
DFID                       Department for International Development (U.K)
DRC                        Democratic Republic of the Congo
ERC                        Economic Recovery Credit
ERRC                       Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Credit
ESAF                       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                         European Union
FAR                        Forces Armees du Rwanda (old pre-genocide army of Rwanda)
FEP                        Framework for Economic Policies
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GOR                        Government of Rwanda
HIPC                       Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IDA                        International Development Association
IFAD                       Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
NGO                        Non Govermmental Organization
OCIR-Cafe                  Office des Cultures Industrielles Rwandais- Cafe (coffee parastatal)
OCIR-The                   Office des Cultures Industrielles Rwandais- The (tea parastatal)
PFP                        Policy Framework Paper
RPA                        Rwanda Patriotic Army
SAC                        Structural Adjustment Credit
SSA                        Sub-Saharan Africa
UK                         United Kingdom
UN                         United Nations
UNDP                       United Nations Development Program
USAID                      United States Agency for International Development
Vice President                           C. Madavo
Country Director          :              E. Mbi
Sector Manager                           L. Barbone
Task Team Leader                         C. Obidegwu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
L COUNTRY BACKGROUND                                                                            2
POVERTY AND SOCIAL INDICATORS ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4
RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4
IL THE BUDGET FINANCING REQUIREMENTS    --                                          ----- 5
Im. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM-                                                            7
KEY DEVELOPMENT ISSUES.------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- 7
NationalReintegration andReconciliation.-------------- ----------------------------------------- 7
PovertyReduction andEconomic Growth------        --------------------------------------8--8
POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS                              -- ---- ---------------------------8
ReformsAlready Undertaken--------------------------------------------------------------------9
Ongoing andPlannedReforms -----------------------------------10
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDITI                           --    -                                     11
CPREDT OBJECTIVES AND BENEFITS .-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 1
INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ------------------------------------------------------- 12
RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT - ------------- --                                             13
CREDIT AMOUNT, DISBURSEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATIoN- ---- ---------14
CONDITIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASES -----------------------                                      14
Condifion of Effectiveness-- ----------------------   ----------------------------15
Actions for the Fixed Tranche Release------------ ------------------------------------------15
Actions for the Floating Tranche Release-----------------------------------------------------------16
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
POVERTYFOCUS ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY------------ - -------------------------------------------- - ---------------------------------------17
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS-                                                                     18
IFC AND MIGA------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------19
VL COLLABORATION WrTH THE IMP AND DONOR                                                    19
VII: RECOMMENDATION                       -                      ---  ----19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
-iii-



THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:              Rwandese Republic
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Credit Amount:         SDR 53 million (US$ 75 million)
Tenms:                 Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Credit Description:    The proposed credit would provide quick disbursing finance to support the
Government's economic reform program. The objectives of the program are
to consolidate the ongoing economic recovery and stability, reduce rural
poverty, lay the foundation for private sector-led growth, and enhance the
prospects for national reconciliation by opening up economic opportunities
to all Rwandese. The economic reform program is being carried out in
parallel with other socio-political activities to enhance national reintegration
and reconciliation. The reform program is ambitious, but the authorities
consider it a cornerstone in the overall effort on national reconciliation and
nation-building. It will enable Rwanda's economy make the transition, de
facto and de jure, from state control to a market based orientation, which is
necessary for opening up economic opportunities to all Rwandese. This first
stage of reforms will focus on the following elements: (i) maintaining
macroeconomic stability and improving public resource mobilization and
management; (ii) developing market-oriented agriculture and reviving the
rural economy; (iii) enhancing the role of women; (iv) establishing the
institutional and legal framework conducive to private sector growth and
competitiveness; and (v) privatizing state enterprises, strengthening public
administrative capacity, and improving service delivery. The African
Development Bank (AfDB), Canada, the European Union, the Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States and
the IMF are also supporting the reform program. In June 1998, the IMF
approved a 3-year ESAF arrangement of SDR71 million and the AfDB
approved a Structural Adjustment Credit of US$20 million.
Risks                  The main sources of risks to a successful and sustainable reform program
are: (i) the insecurity in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region, exacerbated by
the civil war in DRC; (ii) the difficult socio-political context in Rwanda--
the legacies of the genocide, the fragile social fabric, the poor and divided
society, weak justice system and governance; and (iii) the readiness of the
Government to carry out the needed socio-political reforms under this very
difficult environment. Other risks include the weak technical capacity of the
-iv-



government to implement economic reforms, and the dependence of the
economic recovery on inflows of donor funds. While the donors have
provided substantial resources to Rwanda in the last four years, donor
support became fragile as a result of Rwanda's involvement in the civil war
in the DRC. Lack of progress in reaching an agreement on ending this war,
and any donor dissatisfaction with the pace of improvements in justice,
human rights, economic and political governance in Rwanda, could further
erode donor support.
Benefits               The expected benefits of the program include (i) the consolidation of the
ongoing economic recovery that has been running at over 10 percent per
year in the last four years; (ii) the increase in rural production and incomes
through enhanced security of land tenure, higher producer prices of coffee
and tea and a sustainable framework for distribution and marketing of
agricultural inputs; (iii) the creation of employment through the revival of
the private sector and privatization of moribund state enterprises, and (iv)
the improvement of public social and other key services by increasing
budget allocations and better service delivery. These improvements will
underpin the efforts on national reconciliation.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Poverty Focus:         The reform program has a strong poverty focus. The program will bring
improvements in public expenditure management and shift resources into
education and health programs that benefit the poor. The increase in
producer prices of coffee and tea, the two main sources of cash income for
the poor rural dwellers will result in immediate increase the incomes of the
rural poor. Measures to enhance the security of land tenure, expand tea
production and revive the coffee sector will sustain income growth. The
establishment of a sustainable pricing and distribution framework for
agricultural inputs will enable farmers to adopt modem inputs in
production, raising productivity and incomes. The privatization of the
largely dormant state enterprise sector will bring their assets into
production, creating jobs and improving the provision of goods and
services. The UN relief agencies,NGOs, and govemment programs, such as
the Genocide Victims Fund, will continue to provide the safety nets for the
poor in this transitional period.
Environmental Rating:    C
There is no Project Appraisal Document. A Letter of Development Policy, prepared by the Rwandese
authorities, is annexed to this Report.
-v-



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) to Rwanda for SDR 53.0 million (US$75 million), on
standard IDA terms and maturity of 40 years, to help finance the continued recovery of the
economy of Rwanda. The Credit would finance eligible imports based on a negative list and the
counterpart funds from the imports would finance programs in the national budget.
2.    Since the genocide, the Government, with the support from the international community,
has worked to restore peace and revive and stabilize the economy. Considerable progress has
been made on the economic front, however, the building of social trust, destroyed by the
genocide, will take time. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), endorsed by the Board on
April 7, 1998, proposed that Rwanda should be treated as a special case and given substantial
international assistance despite the high risk and uncertainty about outcomes. The proposed
ERC, part of the Bank's contribution to the intemational effort to reconstruct Rwanda, would
advance the CAS goals of: (i) revitalizing agriculture and the rural economy; (ii) developing
human resources and capacity; and (iii) developing the private sector and effective government.
Reforms to be supported by the proposed ERC will increase rural incomes and revitalize rural
production, and facilitate private sector production growth. Increased budgetary resources will
finance critical government services and help to maintain economic stability. The reform
program will enable Rwanda's economy make the transition, defacto and de jure, from state
control to a market-based orientation. A climate of economic revival, with private sector growth,
increased rural economic activity and a reduction in poverty, would underpin nation-building
and strengthen the processes of national reintegration and reconciliation.
3.    The Bank and the ]IMF assisted the Government in designing its reform program. A
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), developed by the Government in collaboration with the staff of
the Bank and the IMF, was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1998. At a meeting in
Stockholm in June 1998, convened by the Bank at the request of the Govemment, the bilateral
donors and multilateral agencies endorsed the Government's reform program, and pledged
US$250 million to support it. The pledges included funding for debt relief through a
multilateral debt trust fund. However, donor support weakened following Rwanda's military
involvement in the civil war in the DRC. The donors were naturally concerned about the war's
impact on peace in the Great Lakes region, the delicate process of national reconciliation in
Rwanda, and the possible diversion of budgetary resources, including those provided by donors,
to military uses.
4.    The Government has since reaffirmed its commitment to a negotiated solution to the
crisis of the DRC and to reinforce the efforts on national reconciliation and the improvement of
human rights. Furthermore, at a donor meeting on November 10, 1998 in Kigali, the



Government reiterated its commitment to the budget framework of the PFP, which envisaged a
progressive shift of government expenditures from security to the social sectors and greater
transparency in budget transactions. Most of the donors have since concluded that the
withdrawal of support for the reform program would undermine all the efforts of the last four
years to revive economic activity and restore peace in Rwanda. Moreover, the withdrawal of
support would not enhance the prospects for the peaceful resolution of the regional conflict.
5.    The CAS recognized the volatility of the socio-political situation in Rwanda and the
Great Lakes region, and the difficult task of achieving stability, economic development and
poverty reduction. It proposed that Rwanda be treated as a special case for international
assistance to enable it overcome the legacies of the genocide and lay the foundation for a stable
nation. The situation in the region has changed since the CAS as the optimism generated by the
change of regime in Kinsasha has been dashed by the outbreak of hostilities between the allies in
the ouster of the former ruler in the DRC. However, the fundamental imperative for assistance to
Rwanda by the international community, and the case for a special case treatment, has not
changed. Without international support, the prospects for national reconciliation and improving
human rights and justice would be bleak, and economic and social conditions would deteriorate
rapidly and could stoke further violent national and regional conflicts.
I. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
6.    Rwanda is recovering from tragic human and economic destruction that has few, if any
parallels. The genocide and civil war of 1994 destroyed the country's social fabric, its human
resource base, institutional capacity and economic and social infrastructure. Up to 800,000
people, mainly Tutsis and moderate Hutus, were killed, about two million Rwandese fled to
refugee camps in neighboring countries, one million were displaced internally and about 800,000
old case load refugees retumed to Rwanda from neighboring countries'. Economic activity
declined by about 50 percent. The devastation of Rwanda reflected the wider conflict in the
Great Lakes region of Africa. Sustained efforts by the international community are required to
enable Rwanda and the other countries in the region to make the transition from conflict to peace
and sustained economic development.
7.    The Government of National Unity, on assuming power in 1994, put emphasis on
establishing an atmosphere of peace and security, resettling displaced persons and refugees,
assisting victims of genocide, and reviving and stabilizing the economy. The massive return of
Rwandese refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Tanzania in late 1996
and the political changes in the DRC were seen as favorable to peace and stability in Rwanda.
However the support of Rwanda for the forces attempting to topple the regime in the DRC,
makes the search for reconciliation and peace in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region more
daunting.
1. Old case-load refugees are the Rwandese refugees from the conflicts of the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s and their
descendants. These exiles retumed to Rwanda in massive numbers in 1994 and 1995. New case-load refugees are
those who left Rwanda in 1994.
-2-



8.    Despite the difficult socio-political environment, the limited capacity of the Government,
and the challenges of maintaining a fragile coalition government and containing the violent
insurgency in the northwest of the country by hard-core soldiers and militias of the previous
regime that operate out of the DRC, Rwanda has made remarkable progress in the social and
economic fronts since the genocide of 1994. Economic, administrative, judicial and social
infrastructure and institutions have been rehabilitated. Old and new case-load refugees have
largely been resettled. The trials of the 130,000 persons in detention for participating in the
genocide remain a formidable challenge for Rwanda, given the weak capacity of the justice
system. The Government continues to search for ways to expedite these trials and recently
decided to release 10,000 suspects for lack of strong evidence. The economy has stabilized and
continues to grow rapidly and economic reform is underway. Economic activity is however
vulnerable to the fragile peace and a reduction in external aid, and constrained by the weak
human capacity, onerous security-related expenditures, and the external debt burden.
9.    Human Resource Constraints: The genocide destroyed Rwanda's human resources and
its institutional capacity. In the civil service, less than 3 percent of the 13,000 civil servants in
the central administration have a university degree or the equivalent and the majority of the civil
servants are unqualified for their jobs. Over 50 percent of the teachers are untrained. Progress
has been made on rebuilding institutions, but building human capacity will take time.
10.   External Debt: Rwanda's extemal debt stock amounted to US$1.2 billion, equivalent to
59.3 percent of GDP, at the end of 1998. The estimated present value of outstanding external
debt at the end of 1998 was 562 percent of exports, and is expected to remain above 350 at the
end of the next 10 years. In July 1998, the Rwanda obtained debt relief on the Naples terms from
the Paris Club. However, this provides Rwanda only limited relief as multilateral creditors
account for over 80 percent of its debt. With the assistance of the Bank, a Multilateral Debt Trust
Fund (MIDTF) has been set up to service Rwanda's debts to IDA, the African Development Bank
(AfDB) and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (EFAD) over three years. With
contributions from several bilateral donors, the MDTF will considerably ease Rwanda's debt
burden until it qualifies for assistance under the HIPC program.
11.   Regional Developments: The interlocking violent conflicts in the Great Lakes region
have undermined peace within the countries. In particular, Rwanda's efforts to achieve national
reconciliation and economic development are closely linked to events in the DRC. The ouster of
the Mobutu regime in the DRC in 1997 raised hopes for reducing tensions and fostering
cooperation in the region, and improving internal security in Rwanda. However, cross-border
violent insurgency increased in both Uganda and Rwanda, and in August 1998, a civil war
erupted in the DRC, with Rwanda and Uganda supporting anti-government groups. Ultimately,
secure borders can be achieved only through international agreement. Rwanda is involved in the
international efforts underway to secure a cease-fire and negotiate an agreement to end hostilities
and secure the borders.
-3-



Poverty and Social Indicators
12.   Poverty: The proportion of households below the poverty line increased from 40
percent in 1985 to 53 percent in 1993 and to 70 percent in 1996. The stagnation of the
agricultural sector, the primary source of income for the 90 percent of the population, was a
major factor in the rise of poverty. A combination of the fragmentation of land holding,
insecurity of land tenure, degradation of the soil and the environment, poor pricing and labor
policies, and population displacements due to civil conflicts, have adversely affected agricultural
performance. The most vulnerable groups among the poor are the female and minor-headed
households, which account for over 34 percent of all households.
13.   Social indicators are below SSA averages. Survival rates have worsened considerably.
The AIDS epidemic has been severe in Rwanda. Recent data indicate that 10.8 percent of the
rural, and 11.6 percent of the urban population, aged 12 years and above, are HIV positive.
Malaria remains the leading cause of death. Secondary school enrollment is one of the lowest in
the continent. Life expectancy, largely due to the effects of the genocide, has declined to 42
years, compared to 52 years for SSA and infant mortality is 125 per thousand compared to 90
per thousand for SSA. The social infrastructure has been rehabilitated since the genocide, but the
acute lack of human capacity in the sector has been a major constraint on service delivery.
Recent Economic Developments
14.   Rwanda's economy experienced rapid growth of GDP and per capita incomes, and
economic stability in the 1960s and 1970s, with real GDP growth of 6.5 percent per annum in
1973-80. However, the inward looking, aid dependent and state-dominated economy could not
cope with the massive terms of trade shocks of the 1980s, even with high inflows of external
assistance. Real GDP growth declined to an average of 2.9 percent in 1980-85, and further to -
0.3 percent in 1986-90. As a result of this stagnation of the economy, GNP per capita, which had
risen from US$70 in 1973 to a peak of US$390 in 1989, fell to US$250 in 1993.
15. Table 1 shows the recent macroeconomic indicators. As a result of the genocide and civil
war in 1994, real GDP fell by 50 percent, inflation rose sharply to 64 percent and per capita
incomes declined further to US$80. Since 1995, the economy has rebounded strongly, with real
GDP growth rates of 37 percent in 1995, an average of 11.5 percent a year in 1996-97, and an
estimated 10 percent in 1998. Meanwhile, with prudent fiscal management, buttressed by large
inflows of external budget support, inflation was quickly brought under control, to 22 percent in
1995 and to an average of 6.8 percent in 1998. Government revenues have risen from 7.1
percent of GDP in 1995 to 10.2 percent in 1998.
16.   On the external front, the current account deficit, excluding official transfers, is estimated
to be 17 percent of GDP in 1998 compared to 20.5 percent in 1995. The gross international
reserves recovered from the equivalent of 11/2 months of imports in 1994 to over 6 months of
imports in 1998, reflecting the large inflows of external assistance, and the partial recovery of
the export base.
-4-



Table 1
Main Macroeconomic Indicators
Actual                      Est   Projected
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Growth rates (% change)
Population                               3.1  -18.0    2.7    5.1   17.4    3.0    3.0    3.0
Real GDP                                -8.1  -49.5   36.6   12.0   10.9   10.0    8.5    8.0
Consumer prices (period average)         8.6   64.0   22.0    8.9   12.0    6.8    5.0    5.0
National Accounts (% of GDP)
Gross investment                        15.2    4.3    8.6   10.3   10.0    9.9   16.1   16.5
Private investment                     7.6    1.6    0.7    1.1    1.8    3.4    6.5    7.4
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
External current account balance
Excluding official transfers         -14.8  -53.4  -20.5  -19.1  -17.3  -16.8  -18.5  -17.5
Including official transfers         -6.4   -6.2    4.5   -0.3   -3.2   -5.0   -7.2   -7.2
Real effective exchange rate (index,    72.7   58.3   76.8   71.2   59.1   59.7   60.6   61.5
1987=100)
Exchange rate                          144.4  220.0  290.0  306.5  302.4  313.3  330.5  341.7
(local/US$)
Government Finance (% of GDP)
Total revenue, excluding all grants      9.1    3.7    7.1    9.2   10.3   10.2   10.8   11.5
Total revenue, including all grants     15.5    4.6   17.7   16.6   17.1   15.2   16.6   16.8
Total expenditures                      23.6   16.1   20.0   22.3   19.5   18.1   21.9   21.3
Overall Balance (payment order)
excluding all grants                 -14.5  -12.4  -13.3  -13.1   -9.2   -7.9  -11.1   -9.8
including all grants                  -8.2  -11.5   -2.3   -5.8   -2.5   -2.8   -5.4   -4.5
Debt and Financial Indicators
Debt outstandinglGDP                    42.7  138.2   88.6   79.6   62.7   59.3   62.2   61.3
Debt-service ratio (in percent of exports of
G&NFS)
Before debt rescheduling 1/           25.8   62.4   54.4   44.4   24.8   35.5   44.5   45.6
After debt rescheduling 2/            25.8   62.4   54.4   44.4   24.8   26.1   34.3   36.6
1/ Scheduled debt service before rescheduling and hypothetical stock-of-debt operation.
2/ Reflects flow rescheduling on Naples terms of outstanding arrears at end-June 1998 and maturities falling due
during July 1998-end-May 2001 to Paris Club creditors and assumes at least comparable treatment of debt to other
biiateral and commercial creditors
II. THE BUDGET FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
17.   Although the fiscal situation has improved significantly since 1994, reflecting the
recovery of the economy, and efforts to strengthen revenue administration, the fiscal deficit will
-5-



remain large. Table 2 shows the projected budget financing gap for 1999-2001, amounting to
US$293 million. This budget, based on estimates of resource availability assuming a declining
trend in external assistance to the budget, falls short of the funding requirements for accelerated
transition to stability and sustainable development. The transition requires enhanced funding for
justice and law enforcement, decentralization, social and economic integration of vulnerable
groups, and for developing institutions of political and economic governance, and human
resources and capacity. These exceptional needs require additional donor support, the reduction
in security-related expenditures, and the improvement of the effectiveness of public spending.
Table 2
Rwanda: Budget Financing Gap, 1995-2001
1995     1996     19971    1998      1999     2000       2001
|Budget             Projected
Financial Requirements         65.5     86.2    115.5    203.0    190.4    188.6       208.2
Currentexpenditure        42.0      53.7     64.0      83.0     91.5    102.2      113.1
Capital Expenditure       28.6      35.8     46.1      76.8     71.2     76.5       84.4
Amortization of Debt        6.5      5.9      7.0       7.3      8.1       9.1      10.4
Change inArrears1        -11.6      -9.2     -1.6      35.9     18.6       0.0       0.0
Financing                      63.5     85.5    115.7    143.7    136.9    162.9       188.6
Revenues                  23.1      39.5     58.1      69.5     80.3      96.7     116.9
Grants                     36.9     31.7     37.8      52.2     42.5     44.6       48.7
Net Lending                 0.0      0.0       0.5      1.6      0.5       0.0       0.0
Extenal Financing          14.4     16.6      19.1     20.1     23.6      26.6      27.4
Domestic financing        -10.9     -2.0      0.2       0.3    -10.0      -5.0      -4.4
Financial Gap (bill. FRW)      -2.0     -0.4       0.2    -59.3    -53.5    -25.7      -19.6
Financial Gap (mill. $US)      -6.9     -1.3       0.7   -189.3   -161.9    -75.2      -54.7
1. (+ = reduction ) The 1998 projected reduction in arrears includes, for the external ones, only those to
multilaterals and Paris Chlb creditors.
18.    Since assuming office in 1994, the Government has faced the challenges of restoring and
maintaining peace within its territory, and securing its borders in the face of cross-border
insurgencies. Other challenges included the reintegration of ex-combatants of the old army
(FAR) into the new army (RPA), and the demobilization of soldiers. As a result of these
challenges, security-related spending is relatively high, amounting to 37 percent of recurrent
expenditures in 1997 and 43 percent in 1998.2 The Government has stressed that upon the
resolution of the crisis in the DRC, with adequate safeguards for security along common borders,
it will accelerate the demobilization of soldiers and substantially reduce security spending. This
2. Security-related expenditures consist of the spending for national defense (military) and the national police
(gendarmerie). The latter accounted for 5.5 percent of total recurrent expenditures in 1998. The Government plans
to replace the gendarmerie with a civilian national police.
-6-



is reflected in the budget allocations for security in 1999 that amounts to 31 percent of total
recurrent expenditures and 3.9 percent of GDP.
II. THE GOVERNmENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
Key Development Issues.
19.   The chronic poverty of the Rwandese population and the socio-political instability are
compounded by diminishing land resources in a largely agricultural economy, declining
agricultural productivity, high population density and growth rates, poor human resources, and a
weak private sector. The Government recognizes that national reconciliation and political
stability in the Great Lakes region, are essential to effectively meet the challenges facing
Rwanda. To build a climate conducive to national reconciliation, the Govemment seeks to
increase and diversify economic activity, and build an open and inclusive economic system, with
the benefits of growth widely shared by the population. The key elements of its economic
strategy are to raise agricultural productivity, develop human resources, and promote trade and
investment in the context of a liberal, private sector-led, market-oriented economy.
National Reintegration and Reconciliation.
20.   With the assistance of the international community, most of the people displaced by the
events of 1994 and the refugees who returned from exile have been resettled. However,
economic and social reintegration remains a priority, requiring the provision of permanent
shelter, and support for building sustainable livelihoods and enhancing social capital. Ongoing
national resettlement and re-integration programs include the Genocide Victims Fund,
reinsertion of the returned ex-FAR soldiers into the RPA, re-integration of demobilized soldiers
into civil society, absorption of qualified ex-civil servants who came back from exile into the
government service, as well as the various programs of the UN relief agencies, and national and
local NGOs.
21.   Over a year ago, the Government initiated consultations among the various political
groups on the social, political and economic development of Rwanda and the sequencing of the
necessary reforms provided for in the Arusha Accord. As a result of these discussions, in 1998,
the Government established a Human Rights Commission to promote the respect for human
rights, and a Commission for National Reconciliation to promote a broad dialogue in the country
on rebuilding the society and facilitating the coexistence of all Rwandans. In addition, a
Commission on Legal and Constitutional Affairs will be established to propose the political
arrangements for a democratic Rwanda. The establishment of an effective civilian police force,
the strengthening of the communal police, and the reinforcement of the justice system at all
levels are among the Government's priorities.
-7-



Poverty Reduction and Economuc Growth
22.   The challenge of reducing poverty can be framed as follows: with about 70 percent of
Rwandese households currently below the poverty line, with an annual GDP growth rate of 7
percent, it will take about 15 years to reduce poverty to its 1985 level of 40 percent of all
households below the poverty line. A sustained 7 percent growth of GDP is a formidable
challenge for Rwanda, given its poor resource base and risks of instability. The Govemment's
strategy for poverty reduction combines accelerated growth in agriculture and rural production
with an emphasis on the development of human resources.
23.   The medium-term macroeconomic objectives are to: (i) achieve annual average real GDP
growth of 8 percent a year during the period 1998-2000; (ii) reduce inflation to 5 percent by
end-1999 and maintain it at that level thereafter; and (iii) reduce the external current account
deficit (excluding official transfers) to about 17 percent of GDP by the year 2000. In the first
two years, the growth targets would be achieved by greater utilization of existing capacity.
Beyond that, economic growth would require a significant increase in private savings and
investment, and improved productivity of private and public investment. The required savings
and investments in human and physical capital would require the restoration of confidence in the
economy, buttressed by progress in social reintegration and accelerated structural reforms.
24.   Agriculture and Rural Development. Accelerated development of agriculture is the
path to sustaining the ongoing economic recovery and reducing poverty. A Government strategy
for the agricultural sector seeks to make the sector market-oriented, increase its productivity and
consequently raise rural incomes. The strategy emphasizes the enhancement of security of land
tenure, market oriented provision of agricultural inputs and extension services, improvements in
rural infrastructure, particularly access roads, development of goods and credit markets, and
renewal and protection of the natural resource base. The strategy also puts emphasis on the
development of private, small scale enterprises in the rural areas, to create non-farm employment
and take some pressure off the land.
25.   Human Resource Development: Public spending per capita on the social sectors
remains among the lowest in Africa, although Rwanda's problems are extremely severe, due in
part to the genocide. The challenges of AIDS, malaria, malnutrition, and the urgent need to
improve the quality and access to education at all levels, require public as well as private
investments in social services. Government leadership, in terms of improved policies and higher
spending in the social sectors, is essential to meet these challenges. Budget allocations to the
social sectors are increasing, with a goal of spending 40 percent of the recurrent budget on this
sector by the year 2000. A social sector expenditure review is underway to help develop
programs for enhanced funding of social services by the Government and donors.
Policy and Institutional Reforms
26. The Rwandese authorities consider widespread poverty and unemployment, and the lack of
access to economic opportunities, as the roots of the violence and impunity that has plagued the
country. Thus a reform program that will enhance economic growth and reduce poverty, is
-8-



regarded as a cornerstone of the efforts on socio-political stability, nation-building and national
reconciliation. As mentioned earlier, the program will facilitate the transition of the Rwandese
economy, defacto and de jure, from state control to market-orientation and thus open up
economic opportunities to all social groups. It is an ambitious program but is feasible provided
implementation is approached with flexibility, in such a way that it does not exacerbate the
tensions in the already fragile society. The reform program, summarized below, is presented in
fuller detail in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) prepared by the Government and
annexed to this Report and Recommendation of the President.
Reforms Already Undertaken
27.   The Government began its economic reform efforts in March 1995 with the liberalization
of the trade and exchange regime, interest rates and coffee marketing. In 1997, the Government
continued its reform efforts under the Framework of Economic Policies (FEP) paper
developed jointly with Bank and Fund staff. Progress was made in structural reforms under the
FEP, albeit less than expected because of administrative capacity constraints. In June 1998, the
Government adopted the PFP.
28.   Within the last four years, the trade and exchange regimes, coffee marketing and business
registration were liberalized, non-tariff barriers abolished and external tariffs drastically
lowered. The maximum rate has been reduced from 300 to 25 percent, the minimum from 40 to
5 percent, and the number of rates from 22 to 3. The external tariff regime now has a 25-15-5
structure. On the fiscal area, the tax code was reformed and simplified in 1997 and, to improve
revenue collection, an autonomous revenue authority was established in 1998. On the financial
sector, interest rates have been liberalized, and in 1997, a central bank law giving the BNR
independence in monetary policy was adopted. A new banking law aimed at liberalizing the
fimancial sector while strengthening the supervisory authority of the Banque National du
Rwanda (BNR), is expected to be passed into law in early 1999.
29.   In 1996, the National Assembly passed the privatization law. This paved the way for the
appointment of a Privatization Commission to oversee the privatization process and the
establishment of a technical Privatization Secretariat to implement it. In early 1998, an
operational program that envisages the privatization of 60 public enterprises within 3 years was
adopted. As of mid-February 1999, the cabinet has approved the privatization/liquidation of 20
enterprises. The enterprises already privatized include a large specialist/general hospital, a sugar
factory and plantations, hotels, and the national airline. To revive coffee production, the coffee
export tax was eliminated in January 1999. The producer price of tea was also increased to
sustain tea production. These measures help to increase rural cash incomes and enhance market-
based activities in the rural areas.
30.   On the civil service, the reorganization of the ministerial structure in 1997 and early 1999
has provided the basis for the rationalization of the functions of the ministries and public
employment. In this process, 3576 "ghost-employees" (about 10 percent of public sector
employment) were removed from the payroll and new measures were introduced to root out
-9-



existing ghosts and prevent new ones. In addition, 2,086 unqualified civil servants were
retrenched, and 300 qualified former civil servants that returned from exile were absorbed into
the civil service. In late 1998, a new census of civil servants was undertaken to completely get
rid of the ghosts in the payroll and provide the database for further rationalization of functions,
posts and compensation within the civil service.
Ongoing and Planned Reforms
31.   The main elements of the reform program are to: (i) maintain macroeconomic stability,
and improve public resource mobilization and management; (ii) develop market-based
agriculture and revive the rural economy; (iii) enhance the role of women; (iv) establish the
institutional, legal, and infrastructure framework conducive to private sector growth and external
competitiveness; and (v) privatize state enterprises, strengthen public institutional and
administrative capacity and improve public service delivery.
32.   Regarding macroeconomic and resource management, the Government will continue its
prudent fiscal and monetary management to maintain macroeconomic stability. On the
development of market-based agriculture, the key measures are the enactment of a new land law
and the adoption of market-oriented policy framework for the distribution and marketing of
agricultural inputs. The land law will provide security of land tenure, and encourage efficient
land use and the development of land markets. The Government will also adopt a comprehensive
strategy to revive the coffee sector, privatize the state-owned tea factories and estates and
establish stakeholder-based regulatory frameworks for both the tea and coffee sub-sectors.
Regarding gender issues, the civil code will be amended to give women the rights to inherit and
own property. In addition, the Government will prepare and adopt a comprehensive action plan
to eliminate other forms of discrimination against women and enhance their access to social and
economic opportunities.
33.   The focus of private sector development efforts is to establish a liberal institutional, legal,
and policy environment to promote private sector activity and enhance external competitiveness.
These changes are to be supplemented by the active promotion and facilitation of private
investment and trade, the enhancement of financial services, an improvement of
government/private sector dialogue on development issues, and the promotion of small and
medium-size enterprises in urban and rural areas. Key measures envisaged include the revision
of existing laws governing private sector activities,--the labor code, the commercial bank law,
the internal trade act, -- to make them consistent with the new liberal market-oriented policy
regime. A framework for dialogue between the private sector and the government has been
developed, and the publicly controlled Chamber of Commerce will be eliminated, paving the
way for private apex institutions to develop. Regarding the labor market, a draft revised labor
code will be presented to the National Assembly in March 1999, and should be adopted by end-
June 1999. This new code will liberalize labor markets, enhance labor mobility, formally
eliminate gender discrimination in the job-market, and eliminate wage controls.
-10-



34.   The reform of the public sector is aimed at reducing the role of the state while improving
its effectiveness in delivering public services. This reform is following three tracks: the
privatization of state owned enterprises, the reform of public administration, and the reforms of
the budget system. The privatization of state enterprises has the potential to create employment
and contribute to government revenues. Most of the existing state enterprises are either operating
well below capacity or dormant and bankrupt. New investments and capable management are
required to get them fully operational. Privatization is stimulating private investment in Rwanda,
reducing the dominant role of the state and broadening ownership and control of productive
assets. The key assets under privatization include tea and coffee factories, hotels, and the
telephone-company (Rwandatel). The Government has decided to restructure ELECTROGAZ,
the electricity/water utility, and separate it into electricity, water, and gas companies and
privatize certain functions. A regulatory framework for private sector participation in the energy
sector will be prepared in 1999.
35.   On the reform of public administration, the Government will: (i) continue to reorganize
the civil service and strengthen its capacity in key areas; (ii) closely monitor and control
recruitment into the civil service; (iii) rationalize functions, posts and staffing and progressively
remove unqualified staff; and (iv) revise the grading and salary structures, and move
progressively toward a "living wage" and fully monetized compensation. The budget reform
aims to make the budget a genuine tool for development and shift budgetary resources to priority
services, particularly the social sectors. The reforms will ensure that the budget process is open
and consultative, decentralized, comprehensive and transparent, and promotes value for money.
To ensure accountability in public financial operations, the Government plans to establish an
Anti-Corruption Bureau and strengthen the recently established Office of Auditor-General. In
parallel, a Central Tender Board has been established to reduce waste, inefficiency and
corruption in the procurement of goods and services.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Credit Objectives and Benefits.
36.   The proposed credit will support the Government's reform program that is being carried
out in parallel with programs to enhance national reintegration and reconciliation. The credit
would provide quick-disbursing financing to fill the budget gap. To support the program, the
IMF approved a 3-year ESAF arrangement of SDR71 million in June 1998. The AfDB, Canada,
the European Union, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and
the United States are also supporting the program (see Annex F for the contributions pledged by
the extemal partners). A successful reform program will consolidate the ongoing economic
recovery and enable Rwanda to qualify for support under the HIPC initiative, with a decision
point in 2001. The expected benefits of the program include:
* The increase in tea prices and the removal of the coffee tax will transfer incomes to rural
areas, revive the production of cash crops, and reduce rural poverty;
-11-



* The passage and enforcement of the law to enhance gender equality would bring enormous
economic and social benefits, as it would galvanize the participation of women, who form
the majority of the labor force, in economic and social activities, particularly in agriculture
and rural areas;
* The adoption and implementation of the land law will provide security of land tenure and
equal rights of land ownership regardless of gender, and encourage investment in the land
and protect soil fertility and the environment. Along with other planned measures
(improvement in rural infrastructure, financial services, extension services and policies),
agricultural productivity will rise, revitalizing the rural economy, and contributing to
strengthening communities and national reconciliation.
+ The changes in budget allocations will increase access to education and improve its quality,
enhance access, particularly by the poor, to health, water and sanitation services; and
facilitate the reintegration of vulnerable populations, including the victims of genocide;
* The privatization of public enterprises will put idle assets into productive use, create jobs and
provide services. Privatization will enhance the role of the private sector vis-a-vis the public
sector, broaden ownership of productive assets, and generate new investments;
* The privatization of the tea factories in particular will energize the important tea sector, and
create rural employment and enhance incomes. Participation by the tea farmers in the
ownership of the privatized tea factories will strengthen the process of cooperative
development and help to build social capital;
* The private sector-related reforms will begin to lay the foundation for sustained private
sector-led growth by encouraging investment and trade, and the improvement of access to
foreign exchange by the private sector will facilitate investment and production; and
+ The reforms of the public administration, to rationalize and focus the activities of the civil
service and reinforce its capacity, will enable it deliver better services.
Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
37.   Between 1995 and 1997, the Government successfully implemented two LMF staff
monitored programs. The Government regarded the PFP discussions in 1998 as an opportunity
to articulate its reform agenda. Cabinet nominated a high level team, headed by the Minister of
Finance and Economic Planning and including the ministers of commerce, agriculture, and
public service, and the secretary generals of key ministries, to discuss the PFP with Bank and
Fund staff. A negotiated draft PFP was amended and adopted by the cabinet. Following this, the
GOR has accelerated the reforms in key areas such as privatization, civil service, trade, fiscal
and budgetary management.
-12-



Rationale for IDA Involvement
38.   Rwanda began to implement structural refonns in 1990, while it faced civil war and
political crisis. Encouraged by the good prospects for a negotiated end to the war and resolution
of the political impasse, the international community backed the Government's reform program.
In 1991, IDA extended a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) for the equivalent of US$90
million to Rwanda and the IMF granted it access to its Structural Adjustment Facility. In
parallel, the AfDB, European Development Fund, Switzerland, Belgium, France, USA, Austria,
Canada and Germany contributed an equivalent of US$126 million to the reform effort. The
reform program got off to a good start but was ultimately derailed by intensified civil war and
the collapse of the peace process. The first tranche of US$55 million of the IDA SAC was
released on effectiveness and was gradually disbursed up to 1993 but the second tranche was
eventually cancelled in 1994.
39.   After the 1994 genocide, the Bank responded to the crisis with actions to: (a) restore
essential services in key sectors; (b) pave the way for economic recovery; and (c) support
international efforts to promote stability. The Bank extended a grant of US$20 million to
Rwanda in August 1994, to finance inputs for restoring services in key sectors such as
agriculture, health, and education. The Bank subsequently provided two emergency credits in
1995 and 1997 that enabled the Government to provide social and economic services and revive
the private sector. In parallel, a complete overhaul of the existing investment projects was
carried out, with impressive results.
40.   The CAS presented to the Board on April 7, 1998, proposed that Rwanda be treated as a
special case for international assistance to enable it overcome the legacy of the genocide and
promote social and economic development. It noted that Rwanda needed assistance for: (i)
national reintegration and reconciliation; (ii) the revitalization of the rural economy, with
emphasis on increasing agricultural productivity, the protection of natural resources, and
provision of social and economic infrastructure; (iii) investments in human resources and
capacity building; and (iv) policy reforms to sustain economic recovery, liberalize the economy,
reduce the role of the state, promote private sector growth to open up economic opportunities to
all social groups. The CAS program focussed on three areas: the revitalization of agriculture and
rural areas, the development of human resources, and policy reform and associated resource
mobilization. The FYl999 program consisted of a quick disbursing credit (the ERC), a rural
water project, and an agriculture/rural project. The last two projects are under preparation.
41.   The CAS provided the opportunity for reflections on the strengths and weaknesses of the
past interventions of the Bank and other donors in pre-genocide Rwanda. Three broad lessons
were drawn from the experience: (a) the political dimensions of development should be taken
into account in development assistance; (b) strong donor-coordination is essential in a conflict
country to maximize the leverage of external assistance for change; and (c) external assistance
should promote inclusiveness, be focused on people, particularly the poor, and provide quick,
direct and sustainable impacts, to facilitate the transition to peace. The reflections furthermore
revealed that in pre-genocide Rwanda, we were late in recognizing and acting on the structural
constraints in the economy and on the need to change the economic orientation to a more liberal,
-13-



market-oriented and inclusive fegime that would have underpinned peace and nation-building.
These lessons, as well as the growing body of knowledge in the Bank on post-conflict
reconstruction, have been taken into account in the design of Bank programs including the
proposed ERC.
42.   The proposed ERC will help to ensure that the development agenda is focused on
economic growth and poverty reduction. The reform program will address key sectoral
(agriculture, telecommunications, energy) issues, that will enhance the effectiveness of the
development projects funded by the Bank and other donors in these sectors. Some of these
sectoral reforms will be developed and implemented using technical assistance from Bank
projects. The proposed ERC has facilitated donor support for the reform program.
Credit Amount, Disbursement and Implementation
43.   The credit of SDR53.0 (US$75) million will be disbursed in three tranches. Procurement
and disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for adjustment operations.
The Borrower will open a US dollar account in the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR). Upon
notification of a tranche release and at the request of the Borrower, proceeds of the credit in US
dollars, will be deposited into this account. If the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible
purposes, IDA will require the Borrower to either return the amount for use on eligible
purchases or refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the Credit. Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required,
the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time.
44.   The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MJNCOFIN) will manage the
program, with the Secretary-General of MINECOFIN as the project coordinator. A Technical
Implementation Committee (TIC), with representatives of several ministries and the BNR, and
headed by the Secretary-General of the MIfNECOFIN, will guide the implementation of the
reform program. The Committee will provide progress reports on implementation to IDA as well
as monthly reports on budget outcomes. Implementation will be closely monitored by the
Resident Mission and by headquarters supervision missions, including joint missions with the
IMF, the AfDB, and the European Union. The Bank will collaborate with the IMF, the UNDP to
ensure that the necessary technical assistance is provided. The Bank will also collaborate with all
the donors and agencies supporting the program in monitoring progress, particularly on public
spending in the social and priority sectors, to ensure that they remain in line with the
understandings reached between the Borrower and IDA and the donors.
Conditions for Tranche Releases
45.   The three tranches will consist of an initial tranche of US$40 million on effectiveness, a
fixed tranche by January 31, 2000 of US$17.5 million, and a floating tranche of US$17.5
million. The floating tranche gives the Government some flexibility in meeting the conditions.
Recognizing the fragile socio-political situation in Rwanda, the Credit has avoided tranche
release conditionalities on measures, such as those relating to land and civil service reformns, that
-.14-



could exacerbate social tensions. This is to give the Government the flexibility to deal with such
delicate situations at the appropriate pace. The proposed conditionalities also reflect a deliberate
effort to prepare action plans for the next stage of reforms.
46.   For each tranche release, IDA must be satisfied: (i) that the overall macroeconomic
environment is conducive to sustainable growth and poverty reduction; and (ii) with the
implementation of the overall reform program as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy
(Annex A). The conditions for effectiveness and the releases of the fixed and floating tranches
are as follows3:
Condition of Effectiveness
* Presentation to the National Assembly of a draft labor code, satisfactory to IDA which, in
particular, would not contain provisions for more than one minimum wage and not require
more than a notification of the ministry responsible for labor when a worker is laid-off by an
enterprise.
Actions for the Fixed Tranche Release
*  Actual spending on education and health sectors in 1999 is in accord with the allocations to
these sectors in the national budget of 1999;
*  The establishment of adequate budgetary classification and monitoring arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, to ensure that budget allocations are in line with budget
objectives;
*  For the FY2000 budget, (i) set, in consultation with IDA, the targets for expenditures for the
social sectors and other priority sectors; (ii) make budget allocations for FY2000 in
accordance with the targets;
+  Adoption by Cabinet of a policy framework satisfactory to IDA, for market based
distribution systems for fertilizers, seeds and other agricultral inputs;
+  Presentation to the National Assembly, of legislation satisfactory to IDA, to liberalize the
telecommunications sector; and
*  Approval by Cabinet, of a strategy and plan satisfactory to IDA, for the privatization of the 9
state-owned tea factories/estates.
3. Annex C summarizes the general, Board, effectiveness and tranche release conditions and the actual/expected timing
of actions.
-15-



Actions for the Floating Tranche Release
* Enact legislation, satisfactory to IDA, to eliminate discrimination against women with
respect to inheritance and ownership rights, and adoption of a comprehensive action plan to
eliminate other forms of discrimination against women, and improve access by women to
economic services and opportunities;
* Enact appropriate legislation, satisfactory to IDA to: (i) abolish the existing Chamber of
Commerce; and (ii) abolish the Coffee Stabilization Fund;
* Enactment of an amendment, satisfactory to IDA, to the Intemal Trade Act (Law No 35/91)
to: (i) revoke the broad authority granted to the minister responsible for commerce to
control prices and profit margins, and specify the level of inventory of goods to be kept by
an enterprise; and (ii) grant the minister such powers as may be necessary to encourage
competition and enforce the provisions of the Act prohibiting anti-competitive practices;
+ Adoption by Cabinet of a comprehensive strategy, developed in consultation with the
stakeholders, to revive the coffee sector, including the reform of OCIR-CAFE into an entity
that will regulate, promote and monitor the performance of the industry;
* Adoption by Cabinet of a regulatory framework, satisfactory to IDA, for the operation of the
tea sector, including the reform of OCIR-THE into an entity that will regulate, promote, and
monitor the performance of the tea sector;
* Bring to the point of sale, starting from January 1, 1999, 20 additional state enterprises. This
includes evaluation of the stocks of the enterprises to be sold, soliciting offers for the
purchase of share capital, the evaluation of any responses to such offers, selection of
successful bidders, and invitation of successful bidders to enter into good faith negotiations;
and
+ (i) approval by Cabinet of a plan, satisfactory to IDA, to split ELECTROGAZ, the
power/water utility parastatal, into three new companies responsible for electricity, water,
and gas companies, and provide for private sector participation in the management and
ownership of the new companies; and (ii) enact legislation to terminate the monopoly status
of ELECTROGAZ.
Environmental Aspects
47.   The implementation of the Economic Recovery Credit is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact.
Poverty Focus
48.   The reform program has a strong poverty focus. The reforn program will bring
improvements in public expenditure management and shift resources into education and health
-16-



programs that benefit the poor. The increases in producer prices of coffee and tea, the two main
sources of cash income for the poor rural dwellers, will result in immediate increase the incomes
of the rural poor. Measures to ensure the security of land tenure, expand tea production and
revive the coffee sector will sustain income growth. The establishment of a sustainable pricing
and distribution framework for agricultural inputs will enable farmers to adopt modem inputs in
production, raising productivity and incomes. The privatization of the largely dormant state
enterprise sector will bring their assets into production, creating jobs and improving the
provision of goods and services. The UN relief agencies, NGOs, and government programs, such
as the Genocide Victims Fund, will continue to provide the safety nets for the poor in this
transitional period.
Risks and Sustainability
49.   The main sources of risks to the successful and sustainable reform program are (i) the
insecurity in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region, exacerbated by the recent outbreak of civil war
in DRC; (ii) the fragile social fabric, in the context of a deeply fragmented society, weak justice
and governance; and (iii) the readiness of the Government to carry out and make progress on
socio-political reforms in the difficult environment. With continuing insecurity and violent
conflict in the region, there will be the unavoidable pressure to allocate more institutional and
budgetary resources to security/military purposes at the expense of development activities. Such
a situation will erode donor support for reforms. Reforms will be effective in generating
economic growth and supporting national reconciliation only in a stable or stabilizing socio-
political environment. This in tum requires perceptible progress in building social capital, and
improving justice and human rights, which are difficult challenges. The Government is
committed to a negotiated resolution of the crisis in the region, and is putting in place programs
to enhance socio-political stability but the pace of these programs need to be accelerated.
50.   The support for reforms from the poor and divided civil society is likely to be soft, and
could decline rapidly, for instance, from the lack of perceptible positive impact of reforms, and
the uneven distribution of pains and benefits. Possible losers from the reform program include
civil servants retrenched in the reform of the civil service, employees of privatized state
enterprises, and demobilized soldiers. To mitigate these risks, up-front measures that have a
rapid and significant impact on income and job creation would be required. Measures to this
effect, such as the removal of the coffee export tax, increase in tea prices, the
privatization/liquidation of state owned enterprises, most of which are dormant or partially
functioning, have already been taken or are underway. The Government is putting in place
programs, including severance payments and technical training, to ease the transitions of
demobilized soldiers and retrenched civil servants.
51.   With history of ethnic tension, and a perception of dominance of the Government by one
ethnic group, economic reform in Rwanda could exacerbate the existing mistrust in the society
and undermine the efforts on national reconciliation. Perceptions of ethnic favoritism could arise
from measures on civil service and land reforms, and privatization of state enterprises. To avoid
these perceptions, the implementation of programs should be transparent and flexible, with
-17-



public discussion of relevant issues and sensitization of affected groups. The Government has
been applying these principles for the reforms already underway. With respect to privatization,
the cabinet makes the final decisions on the sale of enterprises.
52.   Donor support became fragile as a result of Rwanda's involvement in the civil war in the
DRC. Lack of progress in reaching an agreement on ending this war, and any donor
dissatisfaction with the pace of improvements in justice, human rights, economic and political
governance in Rwanda, could further erode donor support. If the donors withhold their financial
support, the reform program would not be adequately financed. Although the Government's
commitment to the program is strong, implementation risk is high due to weak capacity.
Implementation of the program will require substantial technical assistance. This puts a burden
on the Bank, the IMF and the UNDP to assist the Government in designing and financing
technical assistance. These institutions, and some bilateral donors, principally the DFID, are
collaborating in the provision of technical assistance.
53.   Although the risks of the proposed operation are high, the altematives of total
disengagement or low profile engagement may be riskier. Delays in providing assistance would
weaken the leverage of the international community in ending the hostilities in the region. A
substantial reduction of external aid would damage the internal economic and social recovery,
worsen living conditions, and undermine the prospects for national reconciliation. Nevertheless,
should conditions deteriorate despite our support, for instance escalating internal and regional
conflicts, we would consult with the bilateral donors and other multilateral partners on
altemative forms of engagement.
54.   The high risks of the reform program notwithstanding, it is an essential element for
stabilizing Rwanda and the Great Lakes region, and the support for it is the heart of the
argument for special case treatment. The economic program would complement ongoing and
planned measures to enhance national reconciliation and socio-political stability. Moreover,
while the short-run investment response is likely to be weak, the program will increase the
utilization of existing capacity and hence sustain the ongoing strong economic recovery.
Furthermore, the program will lay a strong foundation (for instance, the land law) for improved
economic performance and poverty reduction once security conditions improve.
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
55.   Since 1970, Rwanda has received 50 IDA credits totaling US$819.6 million.
Disbursements from IDA credits have totaled US$688.13 million and have financed a broad
range of projects in infrastructure; agriculture, rural development and forestry; and social
infrastructure. IDA credits have also financed private sector development, public enterprise
reform, financial development, and technical assistance, and provided quick disbursing balance
of payments and emergency support. In 1994, the Bank also provided an emergency grant of
US$20 million to help in relief and reconstruction after the genocide. Currently, IDA has 8
active projects, with a total initial credit amount of US$202.8 million and an undisbursed
balance of US$91.4 million (see Annex I).
- 18-



IFC and MIGA
56. IFC: Before the genocide, IFC financed three loans and two equity participations but all
these have closed. Since the genocide, IFC's first project is a loan to a company that produces
roses for exports (see Annex J). IFC is currently exploring an investment opportunity in
Rwandacell, the provider of cellular telephone services in Rwanda. The Government is likely to
seek the assistance of IFC in the development of the natural gas reserves in Lake Kivu, and the
participation of IFC in the privatization of the tea factories and estates,
57.   MIGA: Rwanda ratified the MIGA convention in October 27, 1987 but has not paid the
subscription fee. Since its strategy aims to attract foreign private investment, the Government
intends to complete the process of joining MIGA in 1999.
VI. COLLABORATION WrrH THE IMF AND DONORS
58.   The Bank and the Fund staff have collaborated closely in the design and monitoring of
macroeconomic and technical assistance programs in Rwanda. Following the cessation of
hostilities in 1994, the IMF organized a number of missions to Kigali to assist the Government
in rebuilding capacity for economic management. The IMF's technical assistance program was
partly financed from the proceeds of the technical assistance component of the IDA Emergency
Recovery Credit. Bank and Fund staff collaborated with the Rwandese authorities in the
preparation of the FEP in 1997 and the PFP in 1998. The AfDB and the European Union, two
other principal financial backers of the reform program participated in the PFP discussions. The
reform program was further endorsed at the donors meeting in Stockholm in June 1998. The
Bank is collaborating with the IMF, UNDP, DFID, AFDB and other donors in providing the
technical assistance needed to implement the reform program.
VII: RECOMMENDATION
59.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
March 8, 1999
-19-



Annex A
Page 1 of 19
February 23, 1999
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Subject: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to request, on behalf of the Government of Rwanda, a Credit of SDR53 million
(US$75 million) from the International Development Association (IDA or the Association) in
support of our economic recovery effort. The overall objectives of the reform effort are to lay
the basis for national reconciliation, sustainable economic growth, and poverty reduction. These
require a rapid transition from a lethargic state-controlled system to a liberal economy, in which
the state creates the proper social and economic institutions and the right conditions for growth.
The need for this transition is rooted in our own unique experience and our assessment of the
requirements to promote rapid socio-economic change in our country. The reform program aims
to promote broad-based private sector development, revive and sustain agriculture and the rural
economy, build human resources, and open up economic opportunities to all Rwandese. Our
programme is consistent with the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) recently formulated by the
Government, with collaboration of the staff of the World Bank and of the International
Monetary Fund (IMIF). Proceeds from the credit will go towards filling Rwanda's external
financing gap.
BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
1.    Rwanda is recovering from the unparalleled tragic human and economic destruction in
1994. Since the Government of National Unity assumed office in July 1994, it has been able to
restore peace, put effective governance on a sustainable path, attained socio-economic recovery
as well as lay the basis for sustainable economic growth. Rwanda is making the transition from
responding to emergencies to ensuring sustainable development.



Annex A
Page 2 of 19
2.    This transition from emergency to sustainable development has required exceptional
efforts by the Government as it had to put in place policies and programmes to rebuild the
society, facilitate national reintegration and reconciliation, and lay the basis for sustained
economic growth and poverty reduction. Rwanda continues to need support to overcome the
legacy of the Genocide and the destruction of human capital so that it can focus on the difficult
agenda of long-term development. Because of the severe damage that the Genocide caused to
human capacities, and the current low level of development and severe poverty, Rwanda should
be treated as a special case for international assistance.
3.    Given this past, the Government of Rwanda's vision for the future encompasses the
following:
i. Good govemance, democratisation, national reconciliation to ensure national political
stability and security, grassroots participation in development and decision making.
ii. Macroeconomic stability and economic reforms and programs that reduce poverty and
empower the population, which would itself facilitate the national reconciliation and
reintegration process. This involves in the initial stages, raising agricultural productivity,
rural incomes, off-farm employment and skills formation.
iii. Promotion of an all inclusive economic system that allows effective participation of all
social and economic groups in the population, .in particular creating an enabling
environment for private sector development, increasing the effectiveness of the state
while reducing the role of the public sector.
iv. Human resource development in all its components
v. Promotion of regional economic integration facilitating and reducing costs of access to
the ocean ports.
4.    Rwanda has made remarkable progress on the economic and social fronts since the
genocide of 1994. The government, with the support of the international community, has been
working to address the consequences of the genocide and the inherited socio-economic
problems, resettle returning refugees, promote national reconciliation and rehabilitate
administrative, judicial and social institutions. The economy has been stabilised and has
rebounded strongly from the sharp decline in 1994. Local elections are to be held so as to ensure
broad participation in the political and economic arenas at grassroots level. Progress has been
made in the trial of detained persons for their alleged involvement in the genocide. Government
however continues to explore ways to deal with the cases of the accused persons in a fair and
expeditious manner. In 1998, the Government took the decision to release 10,000 detainees for
lack of adequate evidence and the process of releasing the eligible detainees is underway. The
National Assembly is considering new legislation to further expedite the trials through
traditional forms of justice at the community level leading to non-custodial sentences.



Annex A
Page 3 of 19
5.    The pace of progress in rebuilding the country has been hampered by, until recently,
insecurity in parts of Rwanda, as well as the instability in the Great Lakes region. Instability in
the DRC raise serious security concerns for Rwanda and we have had to intervene militarily to
protect our borders and put an end to the insurgency from across the border with the DRC. These
security concerns slowed the implementation of our policy of rapid reduction of security-related
expenditures which will allow us to concentrate our efforts and resources on the enormous
challenges of developing our country. The Government of Rwanda is committed to and working
towards a diplomatic solution to the crisis of the DRC.
Poverty and Social Indicators
6.    Poverty in Rwanda has been a structural phenomenon and it worsened significantly since
the 1 980s and after the genocide. The ability of a typical household to afford basic necessities
such as food, shelter, clothing, medical care, and educational services was significantly eroded
in the 1990s. The proportion of households below the poverty line is estimated to have increased
from 40 percent in 1985 to 53 percent in 1993 and 70 percent in 1996. Social indicators,
particularly survival rates, have worsened considerably. Owing to the genocide, many
households have become vulnerable, especially the 34 percent of them headed by females and
minors. A significant and rapid reduction of poverty and improvement of economic
opportunities will improve the prospects for national reconciliation. We are determined to pursue
structural reforms and encourage investments in social and economic services urgently needed to
generate high and sustainable economic growth that, in tum, will create employment, reduce
poverty, and improve social conditions.
Recent Economic Developments
7. In the past four years, the economy has recovered in all sectors as domestic financial
imbalances have declined significantly and the external position improved, reflecting the
adoption of prudent financial policies and key structural reforms by the government. Real GDP
which fell by about one half in 1994, is estimated to have rebounded by 37 percent in 1995 and
an average of 11.6 percent a year between 1996 and 1998. In 1997, real output reached 85
percent of its average pre-war capacity. At the same time the annual rate of inflation (as
measured by the consumer price index (CPI) of Kigali) fell from 64 percent in 1994 to about 2.5
percent in 1998. On the external front, gross international reserves recovered from the equivalent
of 1.5 months of imports in 1994 to about 6.2 months of imports at end 1998.
8.    The fiscal situation also has improved significantly, mostly because of the efforts to
improve tax administration and rationalise tax measures. The revenue-to-GDP ratio has risen
from 4 percent in 1994 to an estimated 10.2 percent in 1998. A new income tax law was adopted
in 1997, reducing the maximum personal and company income tax rates and subjecting public
enterprises to income taxes. In addition, excise taxes on consumption goods were significantly
increased and brought onto an ad valorem basis. In 1998, the Rwanda Revenue Authority (RRA)
commenced operations; this is expected to significantly strengthen tax administration.



Annex A
Page 4 of 19
9.    Government expenditures rose rapidly in 1994-97 in response to the emergencies in the
country. Total expenditure and net lending, which amounted to about 16.1 percent of GDP in
1994, rose to 22.3 percent of GDP by 1996 before declining to 19.5 percent of GDP in 1997 and
an estimated 17.7 percent of GDP in 1998. Improvements in domestic resource mobilisation and
budget support from bilateral donors and multilateral agencies enabled the Government to
increase expenditures and contain inflationary pressures. In the post-genocide period,
reintegration and reinsertion of returning refugees, security concerns, and external and internal
debt service, have influenced the public expenditure patterns. Security related expenditures
amounted to 4.2 percent of GDP in 1995 and dropped slightly to 4.1 percent in 1997. The
Government is committed to contain defence outlays in 1999 to 3.8 percent of GDP compared
with the estimated 4.1 percent of GDP in 1998. We are committed to a rapid reduction in
defence expenditure (including through further demobilisation in the course of 1999), subject to
continued improvements in the security situation in the country and the region.
10.   The Government made good progress in structural reforms in 1995-97 despite the limited
administrative capacity. The key areas of reform in 1995-97 were in the trade and exchange
regime, the fiscal area, the financial sector, and privatisation. The exchange system was
liberalised in 1995 and commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaux were allowed to buy
and sell foreign exchange at market-determined prices. The foreign exchange surrender
requirement on coffee and tea export receipts was reduced in steps and abolished by end-1997. A
new tariff code was adopted with fewer rates and significantly lower average and maximum
rates than in the pre-war era. Efforts were made to rehabilitate the banking system, with re-
capitalisation and provisioning. Consequently the financial positions of the two largest
commercial banks, and the Rwanda Development Bank, have significantly improved. A number
of new commercial banks were licensed and have become operational. Moreover, a revised
central bank statute underpinning the independence of the Banque National du Rwanda (BNR)
in conducting monetary policy was adopted in mid-1997, and the government's non-performing
debt to commercial banks was restructured late in the year. In March 1996, the National
Assembly passed a law providing the legal and institutional framework for the divestiture
program. These efforts laid the basis for deeper reforms in the context of formal arrangements
with the Bretton Woods institutions, starting in 1998.
11.   Based on the good performance under an IMF staff-monitored programme during fiscal
year 1997, Rwanda entered into a three-year ESAF programme with the IMF in March 1998. A
mid-term review of the ESAF-supported programme under the first annual arrangement,
ascertained that most ESAF targets and benchmarks were met. The Government also obtained
debt relief on Naples Terms from Paris Club creditors in June 1998.
National Reconciliation and Reintegration
12.   The process of resettlement and reintegration of refugees has focussed on ensuring their
basic human needs, and helping them become self-sustaining by providing immediate survival
assistance and, subsequently, permanent shelter, social services, and assistance for income
generating activities. Since the genocide, emergency programs have been supported by UN relief



Annex A
Page 5 of 19
agencies, bilateral donors, development agencies, and NGOs. Since 1997, marking the beginning
of the transition from emergency to development, the support for economic and social
reintegration has focused more on interventions by communities themselves, in combination
with government sectoral programs. These decentralized community interventions are designed
to help rebuild social capital by galvanising communities around mutually beneficial activities
that directly address rural poverty.
13.   Until recently, the focus of international assistance for relief, resettlement and
reintegration was on refugees, including those outside the country. The problems of other
victims of the Genocide, including widows and widowers, orphaned and unaccompanied
children, sexually abused children and women, the elderly without the traditional social support,
the handicapped, and those rendered homeless and landless, were largely neglected. In 1997, the
Government established a fund to assist the victims overcome the trauma and economic and
social deprivation of the Genocide. By law, the government contributes 5 percent of the annual
current budget to the fund, and it is seeking additional financing from other domestic and foreign
sources. The fund will help the victims build sustainable livelihoods by providing them
assistance for shelter, education, medical care, social rehabilitation, and income generating
activities. It will also raise public awareness of the problems of these victims, and assist them in
exercising their human and property rights. The program will be implemented with the active
participation of beneficiaries and rely on existing structures, including ministries, associations
and NGOs, and social development committees.
14.   Justice and political governance: Rwanda has to put an end to the "culture of
impunity," in order to achieve a sustainable national reconciliation and ensure justice and the
rule of law. These goals require an effective police force, a strong and independent legal system,
good political governance, with emphasis on the rule of law, and decentralised decision making,
with broad participation by the population in the political and economic arenas. The Government
will continue to strengthen the police and judicial systems at all levels and create and strengthen
other institutions for good governance. A Commission for National Reconciliation has been
established to promote a broad dialogue in the country on rebuilding the society and facilitating
the coexistence of all Rwandans. The government has also established a Human Rights
Commission to promote respect for human rights. A Commission on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs will be established in 1999 to propose the arrangements that will facilitate and sustain
peace and political stability.
15.   Demobilisation and Reintegration: Since the beginning of the programme in
September 1997, 5055 RPA soldiers and 2840 kadogos (child soldiers) have been demobilised.
In the area of reintegration, 1722 kadogos have been reunited with their families and 2355 of
them have been reintegrated into formal education. With regards to the adults, vocational
training centres have been established under the Rwandan Demobilisation and Reintegration
Programme (RDRP) to provide training in various skills to the demobilised soldiers. In the
economic sphere, a credit scheme with an initial contribution of RWP 120 million has been put
in place at a commercial bank to provide credit to eligible veterans to start their own micro



Annex A
Page 6 of 19
projects. The demobilisation and reintegration programme has benefited from various donor
contributions.
16.  In furtherance of national reconciliation, 10,000 ex-FAR were absorbed into the ranks of
the Rwandan Patriotic Army (RPA) in 19981. This has necessitated a revision of our original
demobilisation plan. We have decided to increase the number of soldiers to be demobilised from
the initial 17500 to 25000, increase the number of phases from two to four and extend the
completion date from year 2000 to year 2002. Preparations for the discharge of soldiers in the
second phase started in May 1998 and ended in December 1998 with the demobilisation of 3600
soldiers. The third phase, involving the demobilisation of 11400 soldiers, is to be implemented
during 1999 - 2000. In line with the demobilisation procedures, cash payments will be provided
to the demobilised soldiers. The programme also provides for counselling to assist with
immediate resettlement of demobilised and returned soldiers into their communities as well as
assistance for long-term economic and social reintegration including micro-credit and vocational
training schemes. The successful implementation of the demobilisation programme will lead to a
reduction in defence expenditure allowing more resources to be channelled to the social sectors.
MEDIUM TERM POLICY FRAMEWORK
17.   Despite the significant economic and social progress made during the last few years,
Rwanda continues to face deep-seated social, financial and economic problems. These problems
include (i) widespread poverty and unemployment in the context of extreme land fragmentation,
diminishing land resources, low agricultural productivity, severe environmental degradation and
rapid population growth; (ii) a low level of human resource development and underdeveloped
and under-funded social infrastructure and services; (iii) a weak private sector; (iv) low savings,
a weak financial sector and heavy dependence on foreign aid; (v) a narrow export base, with the
bulk of export earnings derived from coffee and tea; (vi ) a heavy external debt burden and (vii)
a weak public sector capacity, with inadequate remuneration and incentives for civil servants.
18.   Against this background, the main elements of the Government's macroeconomic
policies for the medium term aim at achieving (i) an annual real GDP growth of about 8 percent
a year; (ii) reduce the average rate of inflation to no more than 5 percent by 1999 and keep it
there during the medium term; (iii) lower the external current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) to 17 percent by the year 2000 and (iv) maintain gross official reserves at an average
level of about 5.5 months of imports c.i.f. during the medium term, in view of Rwanda's narrow
export base and vulnerability to external shocks.
19.   Achieving these objectives and laying the basis for sustainable fiscal and government
debt positions would require (i) an improvement in government savings of about 1.5 percentage
points of GDP (mainly from improved revenue performance) in line with a gradually decreasing
reliance on foreign financing of government investment; and (ii) a gradual increase in
ex-FAR: soldiers of the Forces Armees du Rwanda (old pre-genocide army); RPA: Rwanda Patriotic Anny (the
current army of Rwanda)



Annex A
Page 7 of 19
investment to 17 percent of GDP by the year 2000 (from 11 percent in 1997), largely through a
recovery in private sector savings and investment to their pre-war levels and a deepening of
structural reforms.
20.   To achieve these objectives, we will maintain the present liberal investment policy,
which is aimed at invigorating private investment. Both domestic and foreign investors will be
encouraged to acquire enterprises divested under the privatisation programme. The Government
has also embarked on reprioritisation of public expenditure and intends to allocate more
resources to the social sectors particularly to the high priority areas of basic health, education,
water and sanitation; and support for agriculture through rural infrastructure. The improvements
in these areas will in turn provide a more conducive environment for expanded private
investment.
THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
21.   The economic reform programme to be supported by the Economic Recovery Credit will
focus on six areas, consistent with the priorities of the Government. These are (a) revitalising
agriculture and the rural economy; (b) building human resources/social sector reform; (c) gender
and the role of women; (d) private sector development; (e) financial sector reform; (f) and public
sector reform. The key elements of the Government's social and economic reform programs are
in the attached matrix of key policy actions (Attachment 1).
A: Agriculture and Rural Development
22.   For over a decade, agricultural productivity has been declining, impoverishing the rural
population, who are mostly farmers. The major causes of the decline include the exhaustion,
fragmentation and over- exploitation of available agricultural land owing to rapid rural
population growth; the degradation of the soil and the environment and the lack of use of
modern inputs and weak research and extension services.
23.   The Government has developed an agricultural sector strategy with the objective of
increasing rural incomes, enhancing food security, and converting agriculture into a viable sector
by moving away from subsistence to a market-based activity. The main elements of the strategy
are to: (i) promote security of land tenure, improve land use and encourage land markets; (ii)
develop markets for both inputs (such as fertiliser and seed) and products; (iii) improve soil
conservation and management; (iv) improve farming methods through research, extension and
information services and intensification of the use of inputs; (v) promote rural credit and other
financial mechanisms for rural-based activities and (vi) promote the formation of farmers'
groups and professional associations.
24.   In line with these objectives, legislation is before the National Assembly to ensure the
security of land tenure, improve land use and provide the framework for land markets to develop
and function. The land law will also reinforce the rights for women to own land. To promote the
adoption of modern inputs by farmers, the Government will, by end June 1999, adopt a policy
framework for market-based distribution of agricultural inputs including fertiliser and seeds.



Annex A
Page 8 of 19
25.   The Government has initiated substantial reforms in the tea and coffee sectors, to
increase production for exports and enhance rural cash incomes. With regard to the tea sector,
Government at the beginning of 1999 announced a 37 percent increase in the producer price of
tea. Efforts are also underway to privatise the tea estates and factories as well as reorganise
OCIR-Th62. The Government will adopt a plan by September 1999 for the privatisation of the
tea factories and estates now under public ownership. This plan will provide options for the
participation of small growers in the ownership of factories and estates. The Government will
also adopt by end-March 2000, a framework for the operation of the tea sectors, including a
revision of the legal mandate and attributions of OCIR-The, converting it into an entity
responsible for regulating, promoting and monitoring the performance of the tea sector.
26.   In the case of coffee, the Government has eliminated the coffee export tax in the 1999
Budget. This will ensure an additional increase in the producer price to farmers and generate
cash incomes for the rural economy. The Government will adopt, in consultation with the
stakeholders (coffee farmers, farmers associations, traders, processors and exporters), a
comprehensive strategy for to revive the coffee sector including the reform OCIR Cafe into an
industry-based organisation, with its mandate limited to regulation, monitoring, and promotion,
including research and possibly the provision of extension services. The Government will
encourage the formation, and assist in the strengthening of coffee farmers associations, so that
they can participate effectively in the new industry-based institution. These associations will
facilitate communication with farmers, enhance the distribution and adoption of improved
seedling and other inputs to remote regions. Consistent with the liberalisation of the sector, the
Coffee Stabilisation Fund will be abolished by end-June 1999.
27.   Regarding rural credit, the revised banking law submitted to Parliament, will authorise
BNR to issue and amend prudential regulations for banks and non-bank financial institutions.
This will allow BNR to enhance the regulatory framework for rural co-operative savings and
loan associations to increase rural credits. Given that many women are primary cultivators in the
rural areas, they and their children are expected to benefit from these well-targeted rural
programmes and market-oriented reforms that will increase the returns to agricultural activities
and reduce the incidence of poverty.
B: Human Resource Development/Social Sector Reforms
28.   The acute lack of human capacity and poor health standards and facilities are major
constraints to the households' effort to emerge from poverty. In the decade preceding the events
of 1994, educational and health standards and quality of services deteriorated as a result of the
rapidly rising population and under-funding of public social services. In education, the quality at
primary and secondary levels was very poor and irrelevant to the needs of Rwanda, with the
outdated curricula largely devoid of scientific and technical subjects. Furthermore, the
2  OClR-The: Office des Cultures Industrielles Rwandais-The (parastatal for managing/controlling the tea
industry). Manages 9 of the 10 tea factories operational in Rwanda and sets the prices paid to tea farmers.
OCIR-Cafd: Parastatal that until 1995 controlled the processing, marketing and exports of coffee.



Annex A
Page 9 of 19
management of the education system was over-centralised, with limited involvement of parents.
On health, the country faced increasing incidence of drug-resistant malaria and AIDS, and
growing food insecurity and malnutrition. The Genocide cost Rwanda heavily in human capital
losses, which will take time to rebuild. The lost capacity itself is hindering the rebuilding of the
human resource base. For instance, the severe shortage of trained teachers and health workers
impairs our ability to provide primary education and health care.
29.   The Government is putting very high priority on building the human resource base, and
consequently has put emphasis on education, training and health. Our immediate priorities in
education are to (i) strengthen basic primary and secondary education, with relevant curricula,
more instructional materials and trained teachers and improved management; (ii) address the
shortage of skilled manpower by improving the quality and practical relevance of education at
tertiary levels, strengthening training in science and technology and higher level management
and emphasising vocational training. In health, the priorities are to strengthen the delivery of
primary health care--vaccination, nutrition, water supply and sanitation, and the prevention of
malaria, AIDS and other infectious diseases. We have a decentralised health sector strategy
aimed at improving access and quality of health care throughout the country.
30.   Social Sector Expenditures: Our success in developing the economy and reaching the
poor depends on the progress in raising and re-orienting public expenditures to priority sectors
of health, education, water and sanitation, and increasing the effectiveness of public service
delivery. We have, in the context of our limited resources and the other immediate challenges
our country faces, been increasing expenditures for education, health, and other social sectors. In
1998, we undertook, with the assistance of the World Bank and the UK's Department for
International Development, a social sector expenditure review (SSER) of the health, education,
water and sanitation sectors. In the framework of the SSER, the budget for 1999 budget provides
for significant increases in the budgets for the health and education sectors, bringing the share of
the social sectors to 35.7 percent of the recurrent budget and 4.5 percent of GDP. In addition to
education and health, the share of the budget to other social sectors (Youth, Sports and
Vocational Training, and Gender, Family and Social Affairs) rose significantly between 1997
and 1998. Indeed Government allocates 5 percent of the budget each year to a Genocide Fund to
assist orphans, the handicapped, and other victims through education, housing, basic social
services, and income transfers.
31.   For the 1999 budget, the Government has adopted a policy that, in the event that
revenues and other receipts fall short of budgeted amounts, necessitating reductions in
expenditures, the allocations to the education and health sectors would be protected from
cutbacks. Furthermore, in the context of the SSER, the Government is seeking additional
resources from its external partners for spending on the social sectors. If these additional
resources were to become available in 1999, the budget allocations would be accordingly
revised, with emphasis on increasing spending for primary and secondary education. In the
medium-term, the Government will, as the security situation in Rwanda and the region
improves, reduce security-related expenditures, allowing us to significantly spend more on the
social sectors. Similarly, access to external debt reduction schemes such as the Highly Indebted



Annex A
Page 10 of 19
Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, will reduce our onerous debt service payments and enable us
to increase social sector spending.
C. Gender and role of women
32.   Women constitute the majority of the Rwandese population and its labour force,
particularly in agriculture, but have faced substantial constraints on their participation in the
economy and society. The discriminatory laws and practices in education, employment,
inheritance and finance have marginalised women. Consequently, the majority of women in
Rwanda remain poor and vulnerable.
33.   Government is committed to the empowerment of women and ensuring the increased
participation of women in decision making. The Ministry of Gender and Women in
Development is charged with the responsibility to champion the government's program to
enhance women's integration in the development process. The mandate of the ministry is to
enhance positive change in attitudes and promote community based organisational structures and
programmes to facilitate the empowerment and mainstreaming of women and other vulnerable
groups in the development process.
34.   An amendment of the civil code to eliminate discrimination against women with respect
to inheritance and property rights will be enacted by the National Assembly by end September
1999. This amendment will cover matrimonial regimes, liberalities and succession. Existing
laws, such as the labour code, are also being amended to eliminate discriminatory provisions. In
addition, the Government will adopt, by end December 1999, a comprehensive action plan for a
systematic elimination of other forms of discrimination against women and to improve their
access to economic services and opportunities. Furthermore, the Ministry of Gender and Women
in Development will conduct a nation-wide campaign to sensitise the population with the new
provisions of the civil code.
D. Private Sector Development
35.   Government recognises that the private sector should become the engine for growth and
development in Rwanda. The strategy of the Government for private sector development activity
is therefore based on the following elements: (i) maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework
and eliminating distortions in incentives; (ii) reviewing and revising the legislative framework
for the private sector; (iii) providing an enabling environment for public/ private sector dialogue
on business conditions and strengthening the capacity of the private sector to engage in this
dialogue and (iv) promoting and facilitating investments, exports and business development.
36.   The thrust of Government's private sector development activity has been the review and
revision of existing laws as well as preparation of new laws that will facilitate business activity,
investment and the functioning of a market economy. In this regard Parliament recently passed a
new investment code in line with Government's objective of promoting private investment. The
new code also permits the setting up of the Rwandan Investment Promotions Agency as a 'one-
stop-centre' for establishing new businesses and facilitating investments.



Annex A
Page 11 of 19
37.  In the area of trade reform, the Government in the 1999 budget lowered the maximum
import tariff rate from 40 percent to 25 percent, the middle rate from 20 percent to 15 percent,
and the lowest rate from 10 percent to 5 percent. The average effective tariff rate has therefore
declined to 15 percent enabling Rwanda to attain the CBI target. These changes are expected to
promote trade within the region as well as enhance private investment.
38.   The private sector continues to struggle with low productivity and high utility and
transport costs. There are ongoing consultations between Government and the private sector on
how best to tackle these problems with a view to improve efficiency and productivity in a
competitive environment. A number of existing laws that will greatly liberalise and facilitate
business activity, investment and the functioning of the market economy are being revised.
These include the internal trade act, the land law, the labour code. the banking law, and the
mining code. The revisions to the labour code seek to liberalise labour markets, facilitate labour
mobility, eliminate discriminatory gender provisions, and reduce labour costs. The new labour
code, to be submitted to the National Assembly in March 1999 for adoption by end-June 1999,
will not contain provisions for more than one minimum wage. In addition it will not require
more than a notification to the ministry responsible for labour in the event that a worker is laid-
off by an enterprise. The Internal Trade Act will be amended by end-June 2000, to revoke the
authority of the Minister of Commerce to investigate price formation, control prices and profit
margins, and specify levels of inventory of goods to be kept by an enterprise, and provide the
minister such powers that may be necessary to promote competition and enforce the provisions
of the act prohibiting anti-competitive practices.
39.   Both the Government and the private sector recognise the need for dialogue and a
productive working partnership. Government has already shown the way by consulting the
private sector in the proposed revisions to several laws. The 1999 budget was also discussed in
public with the business community and with the academic body and students of the University
of Rwanda. Government will continue to strengthen the productive working partnership with the
business community in the coming years as proof of encouraging the private sector to take the
initiative in promoting growth. The Chamber of Commerce law will be repealed by end June
1999 and the present government controlled organisation will be liquidated thereafter.
Discussions are underway within the private sector on the formation of an apex body
representing private business associations to replace the existing Chamber of Commerce.
E: Financial Sector Reform
40.   We recognise that an efficient and strong financial sector is essential for maintaining
economic stability and promoting private sector development and sustained economic growth.
During the last few years, a number of reform measures have been implemented to improve the
conduct of monetary policy and revive financial institutions. Further measures aimed at
strengthening the financial sector and deepening financial intermediation will continue in 1999
and beyond. In this regard, the new banking law, to be enacted in March 1999, will provide for a
more effective prudential regulation of commercial banks, and strict rules for capital adequacy
(Basle standards), provisioning and external auditing. The recently completed audits of



Annex A
Page 12 of 19
commercial banks will allow for completion of their restructuring plans including the
recapitalisation and removal of all non-performing assets. The publicly owned savings and
mortgage institutions (Caisse d'Epargne and Caisse Hypothecaire), both no longer operational,
will be liquidated in 1999.
41.   In the area of monetary policy, BNR will continue the auction of treasury bills as it will
help enhance the flexibility of monetary policy instruments as well as enable BNR meet the
financing needs of the treasury. BNR also intends to promote the development of a secondary
market for the newly issued treasury bills. The exchange rate will continue to be market
determined, with the intervention by BNR limited to smoothing excessive short-term
fluctuations, consistent with the targets of official reserves. The recently revised exchange
regulations, including the elimination of the 0.4 percent fee on foreign exchange transactions,
aim to further liberalise and simplify the exchange regime, facilitate access to foreign exchange
and reduce costs. With these reforms, Rwanda's exchange regime became free of restrictions on
current account transactions. Consequently, the Government accepted the obligations of Article
VIII sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Articles of Agreement with effect from December 10, 1998.
By accepting these obligations, Rwanda gives confidence to the international community that it
will pursue sound economic policies that will obviate the need to use restrictions on the making
of payments and transfers for current international transactions and thereby contribute to a
multilateral payments system free of restrictions.
F: Public Sector Reform
42.   Reform of the Public sector remains a key element of the Government's economic
reform programme. Areas of focus during 1999-2001 include privatisation, civil service reform
and public expenditure management reform.
43.   Privatisation. Even though the implementation of the.privatisation policy has been
underway for about a year, significant progress has been made. In early 1998, the Government
identified the public enterprises to be privatised and prepared a time table for the privatisation.
During 1998, 31 public enterprises were offered for sale and liquidation processes for four other
enterprises were started. So far the sale of eleven enterprises has been fmalised and the sale of 9
others have been approved by cabinet. We intend to continue as well as accelerate the good
progress made in 1998. In this regard, we will bring to the point of sale, no less than an
additional twenty public enterprises for sale during 1999. These will include some larger assets
in the tea and coffee industries and in the financial sector. We have also preparing the existing
public utility-monopolies for eventual privatisation. With regards to ELECTROGAZ, the
electricity/water/gas utility, a number of actions have already been initiated to restructure the
company. These include the completion of operational and financial audits in 1998. During
1999, we will prepare and adopt a plan to restructure and split ELECTROGAZ into three new
separate legal entities for the provision of electricity, gas, and urban water services, and provide
for private sector participation in the ownership and management of the three companies. In
addition, the law granting ELECTROGAZ a monopoly in the supply of gas, electricity, and
water will be repealed by end September 1999.



Amnex A
Page 13 of 19
44.   Concerning Rwandatel, an audit of the accounts of the company for 1996 and 1997 was
completed in December 1998. Studies are underway to develop the regulatory framework and
prepare legislation to regulate a liberalised telecommunications sector, abolish the monopoly of
Rwandatel and allow private sector participation in the sector. These tasks will be completed by
June 1999, enabling the Govemment to submit the necessary legislation to the National
Assembly by end-September 1999, thereby providing the basis for the privatisation of
Rwandatel in 2000. In the meantime a private mobile telephone network company, Rwandacell
is operational.
45.   The Govemment will continue to ensure that the privatisation process is very transparent.
It will continue to advertise the offers for sale, carry out extensive investor searches and treat all
responsive bidders equally. Bid opening is carried out in public, in the presence of the media and
this is followed by professional evaluation of the technical and financial bids without political
interference. A public relations expert has been recruited to strengthen the public awareness
program and create a conducive and supportive atmosphere for implementing the privatisation
program. We will strengthen the National Privatisation Secretariat and seek technical assistance
when necessary, to enable us accelerate the sale of the assets/enterprises, and ensure prompt
transfer of privatised assets and the receipt by the Government of all sale proceeds.
46.   Civil Service Reforms. The Government is undertaking a comprehensive refonn of the
civil service, designed to increase its efficiency by reducing its size, rationalising its structures,
simplifying job classification, improving salaries in line with a revised salary scale and
modernising the personnel management. In early 1997, the number of ministries was reduced
from 22 to 18. A civil service census was undertaken at end 1995 and updated at end 1997,
providing a basis for streamlining and rationalisation of the civil service. In 1998, 3500 ghost
workers mostly teaching service were identified and removed from the payroll. In addition 2850
unqualified civil servants were also retrenched and paid retrenchment benefits, whilst about 2000
qualified returned former civil servants were rehired.
47. In 1998, the Government prepared a reform of its organisational structure, leading to a
further rationalisation of government institutions. New systems of job grading and classification
as well as changes in salary structures have been worked out. In December 1998, a new census
of all civil servants was carried. This has provided the data for improved management of civil
servants, and the setting-up of a computerised payroll. With the completion of the census, the
remaining ghosts in the civil service has been eliminated from the payroll. In February 1999, the
Government adopted a new ministerial structure, in line with its development priorities.
Organisational 1 structures of the new ministries are being finalized and, based on these, a new
job classification of all staff will be implemented by converting staff into the new positions. The
Government will also implement its new pay structure, which includes the partial monetisation
of all existing fringe benefits. Furthermore, a new central computerised staffing and pay system
will be introduced during 1999. A Public service commission is to be established to oversee the
civil service reform including staffing levels, recruitment and job training. In line with the civil
service rationalisation exercise, and taking into consideration the scarce human resources posture



Annex A
Page 14 of 19
of the country, the Government is considering the transfer of some service deliveries to the
private sector. A study into this issue has been commissioned.
48.   Public Expenditure Management Reform. The Govemment is committed to
strengthening its efforts to improve treasury and expenditure management to ensure
transparency, value for money as well as avoid accumulation of payment arrears. With regard to
expenditure monitoring, the maintenance of a centralised system of "commitments" and
"payments" will be further strengthened by a complete computerisation of the budget and
treasury operations in MINECOFIN and other ministries.
49.   The Government has initiated steps to improve expenditure prioritisation through a
programme budget approach beginning with the health, education, and water and sanitation
sectors in the context of a social sector expenditure review started in late 1998. We intend to
undertake the expenditure review exercise regularly and extend it to other sectors. This will
enable us to and strengthen the integration of the recurrent and development budgets within a
medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF). For FY2000, the Government will, using the
MT-EF, develop and set spending targets for its priorities--education, health, water and
sanitation, social reintegration, national reconciliation, good governance including, justice, and
public accountability and transparency. The budget allocations for FY2000 will be set in
accordance with these targets. Starting from FYI 999, the Government will protect the budget
allocations to priority sectors from cuts during the course of the fiscal year. For FY2000 and
beyond, the Government will establish an adequate budget classification to facilitate budget
prioritisation, and a monitoring system that will ensure that actual budget expenditures for the
priority sectors are in line with budget allocations for these sectors.
50.  In the area of enhancing budgetary accountability and transparency, the law setting up
the office of the Auditor General who will carry out a continuous audit of adherence to financial
controls, more broad-based performance audits and the functions of the existing Inspection
Generale des Finances was promulgated at the end of 1998. The office is therefore expected to
be operational at the beginning of 1999.
CONCLUSION
51.  Rwanda is at a threshold. Over the last four years the Government and People of Rwanda
have been battling with the legacy of the Genocide, and working to rebuild the shattered country,
reconcile the people, deal with the massive problems of old and new case of refugees, stabilise
the economy and lay the foundation for a future of sustainable development. The Government
believes that the country is ready to embark on this sustainable development and the growth-
oriented policies outlined in this letter will ensure the attainment of this goal. This growth can
only come through the unleashing of the motivations and incentives possible only in a market-
based economy led by private sector initiative. The Government's role would be to support
private sector initiative by creating and maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment, and
providing economic, physical and social infrastructures and services needed by the population
and the private sector in an effective manner.



Annex A
Page 15 of 19
52.   The Government is committed to strengthening and accelerating these processes of
change under the economic recovery programme. The IDA and other partners in the
international community have provided needed humanitarian and reconstruction support to
Rwanda in the last four difficult years. Continued financial and other assistance of the
international community is needed now to accelerate the process of change and
development in Rwanda. The Government and People of Rwanda view the partnership with
IDA, particularly through the proposed Economic Recovery Credit, as a timely and welcome
continuation of your institution's support in this effort.
Yours Sincerely,
Hon. Donald KABERUKA
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning



Attachment 1
Matrix of Key Policy Actions
Page i of iv
RWANDA
Lefter of Development Policy
MATRIX OF KEY POLICY ACTIONS
Themes/              Objectives                   Policy and Institutional Measures          Implementation
Sub-themes
National         Rebuilding the social fabric   Assist new and old case load refugees and vulnerable groups  Ongoing
Reintegration    and fostering the conditions   for economic and social integration
and              for peaceful existence and
Reconciliation    respect for human rights
Establish and make operational the commissions for national  1998-1999
reconciliation and human rights.
Establish and make operational the commission for    1999
constitutional and legal affairs.
Strengthen the capacity to expedite the trials of suspected  Ongoing
genocide perpetrators.
Make operational the Genocide Survivors Assistance Fund.   Done, 1998
Decentralization   Build community spirit and   Decentralize decision making and implementation, strengthen Ongoing
and Participation   enhance popular participation  community participation, non-formal education and capacity
building targeted at the rural population, especially the
women.
Demobilization    Reintegrate demobilized   Provide short-tenn reinsertion and long-term economic and   Ongoing
soldiers and retrenched civil  social reintegration assistance, including vocational training
servants into productive  and credit programs for demobilized soldiers and other ex-
civilian life             combatants, and retrenched civil servants.
Revitalizing     Improve living conditions in  Formulate and adopt an agricultural sector strategy and action Done, 1998
agriculture and   rural areas and reduce poverty plan based on stakeholder consultation
the rural        generally                 Formulate a rural development strategy taking into account the 1999
economy.                                          above
A sustainable agricultural    Develop and implement a market-based distribution system    June 1999
input distribution system to   for fertilzers, high yielding seed varieties, and other inputs.
raise agricuural productivity
Enhance security of land-  Finalize and submit to the National Assembly a draft land law  Dec. 1999
tenure                    that provides security of tenure, gives women land inheritance
and ownership rights, and improves overall land use.
Adoption of the land law                             June 2001
Tea              Raise agricultural and rural   Raise producer prices for tea.                   Done, Feb. 1999
cash incomes
Revise the price structure to pay a premium for high quality  Jan. 2000
tea.
Adopted a legal framework for the tea sector, including the    March 2000
revision of the mandate of OCIR-THE, converting it into an
entity responsible for regulating, promoting and monitoring
the performance of the tea sector.
-16-



Attachment 1
Matrix of Key Policy Actions
Page ii of iv
Themes/              Objecffves                   Policy and Institutional Measures          Implementation
Sub-themes                    _
Coffee Sector                              Elininate the coffee export tax                       Done, Feb. 1999
Adopted, a comprehensive strategy to revive the coffee sector March 2000
including a revision of the legal mandate and attributions of
OCIR-CAFE to convert into an entity to regulate, promote and
monitor the perfonnance of the coffee sector.
Abolish the Coffee Stabilization Fund                June 1999.
Building Human  Improve access to social    Raise the share of the social sectors (education, health,  1998-onwards
Resources        services, particularly for the  reintegration, water and sanitation) in the recuurent budget
poor in rural areas       allocations to 37 percent of recurrent budget in 1999, and 40
percent in 2000.
Improve resource          Update strategies for the social sectors and fonnulate medium- 1998-1999
mobilization and use in the   tenn policies, expenditure and financing frameworks for the
social sectors.           social sectors and implement them.
Gender           Enhance the role of women in Finalize and adopt the amendment to the civil code to  Sept 1999
the society               eliminate discrimination against women with respect to
inheritance and the rights to own property.
Conduct a nation-wide campaign to sensitise the population   1999-2000
with the changes in the law to ensure its effectiveness.
Prepare and adopt a comprehensive action plan to end all  Dec. 1999
forms of discrimination against women and improve their
access to social and economic services and opportunities.
Developing the    Improve the envirownent for  Adopt a new and liberalized labor code to enhance labor  June 1999
Private Sector    private sector investment and  mobility, abolish gender discrimination, eliminate wage
trade                     controls and reduce labor costs.
Revise the Intemal Trade Act to abolishprice, profit and  June 2000
inventory controls, and the authority vested on the inspectors
of commerce in their implementation.
Develop structured dialogue  Abolish the government controlled Chamber of Commerce to  June 1999
between the government and  allow the private sector to found a credible apex institution to
the privete sector.       conduct its dialogue with the Govemment
Promote foreign and domestic Adopt the Rwanda Investment Promotion Act         Done, 1998
investment and trade
Establish the Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency to  Ongoing
facilitate investments, promote exports and business
development.
Revise and adopt the mining code to attract investors.  March 2000
Reduce the company tax from 40 percent to 35 percent  January 2001
-17-



Attachment 1
Matrix of Key Policy Actions
Page iii of iv
Theme/              Objectives                    Policy and Institutional Measures          Implementation
Sub-themes
Financial Sector   Imnprove the legal and  Adopt the revised commercial banking law.             March 1999
regulatory framework for
financial institutions
Streng,then the position of the Comnplete the financial audits for commercial banks.  Done, 1998
banks                     Review, revise and adopt restructuring plans of each bank  1999
Promote regional cooperation Hannonize the tariff code in line with the CBI.   Done, Jan 1999
and trade
Reforning the    Develop a competent,       Develop a vision for Rwanda's public sector (role of the state, 1997-1999
Public Sector    effective and appropriately   organizational structure, process for reformiing and managing
sized public sector.      the public sector institutions) to guide the reform of the public
sector.
Privatization of    Reduce the role of the state   Identify the state enterprises for privatization and adopt a plan Done, 1998
State Enterprises   and broaden economic    and a timetable for the divestiture of the identified state
ownership, and make       enterprises.
productive use of state owned
assets.
Develop a strategy and actionplan for the privatization of tea Sept 1999
factories and estates.
Privatize/liquidate identified state enterprises, including the 9 Ongoing
state-owned tea factories.
Publish audited accounts of the telecommunications company Done, Jan. 1999
(Rwandatel) for 1996 and 1997.
Prepare and adopt a teleconnunications sector frameworkto  June 1999
permit private sector participation in the sector.
Adopt legislation to abolish the monopoly of Rwandatel in    March.2000
telecommunications, and, based on the above framework, to
regulate the sector.
Privatize Rwandatel.                                 2000
Prepare and adopt a plan to restructure the utility company    Sept. 1999
ELECTROGAZ, splitting it into three entities responsible for
electricity, water and gas companies.
Adopt legislation to abolish the monopoly of ELECTROGAZ Sept. 1999
Identify the functions of these companies that can be  1999-2001
performed better by the private sector and privatize them.
Reform of the Civil Maintain effective control of  Streamline civil service recruitment procedures. Conduct a    Done, 1998
Service         the size of the civil service and census of the civil service to determiine accurate numbers and
the payrol1.              profiles of employees.
Introduce a computer-based system to manage entry and exit of Ongoing
personnel from the civil service and payroll, facilitate the
elimination of ghost employees from the payroll, avoid the
emergence of new ghosts, maintain a systematic employee
career records and maintain a level of employment consistent
with Govemment policy.
-18-



Attachment 1
Matrix of Key Policy Actions
Page iv of iv
Theme/              Objecffves                     Policy and Institutional Measures          Implementation
Sub-themes
Upgrade the skill-level of the  Progressively reduce the number of -unqualified staff from the Ongoing
civil service and enhance  civil service.
national reintegration
Reintegrate qualified retumees from exile into the service.
Reorganization of the civil   Design and adopt new organizational structures, for all  April 1999
service                    ministries and agencies based on agreed role of the Govermne
and the missions of its agencies..
Identify positions and prepare job descriptions, develop and   July 1999
adopt a job classification/grading system for the civil service
the new organizational sttucture
Match existing civil servants to positions/grades in the new    July-Oct 1999
organizational structure.
Improvepay and incentive    Develop a revised pay structure with decompressed wage scale 1998-2001
structure of the public service monetize fiinge benefits, and raise salaries.
Reform the national Prioritize budget expenditures In addition to the social sectors, provide enhanced budget  1999-2000
budget                                      allocations to other budget priorities--national reconciliation,
good govemance including human rights, justice, public
accountability and transparency.
Ensure that allocations and    Establish adequate budget classification.         Jan. 2000
expenditures are consistent
with the priorities.
Strengthen the capacity and process to develop a prioritized   Ongoing
public investment program. Establish a central projects bureau
with responsibility for donor coordination and facilitating and
monitoring the implementation of development projects.
Reorganize the arrangements for project implementation.
Improve effectiveness of   Design and implement capacity building programs for   Ongoing
managing public resources    MINECOFIN, BNR, Ministry of Public Services and Labor,
and the planning and budgeting units of line ministries
Enhance budget transparency  Develop a system of public accounts                 2000
and accountability
Establish and make operational the office of the auditor-genera Ongoing
Establish a central tender board                      Done
Update its enabling law and operational policies to focus its  June 1999
activities on regulation, monitoring and enforcement
-19-



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 1
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project:  6 months
Project prepared by:               Government and 1DA
Appraisal:                         February 1999
Negotiations:                      February 1999
Board Presentation:                March 1999
Effectiveness Date:                April 1999
Closing Date:                      December 31, 2000
The Task Team for preparation of the Economic Recovery Credit were: Chukwuma
Obidegwu (AFTM3, Task Team Leader), Francois Kanimba (Resident Economist,
Kigali), R Venkateswaran (Resident Representative, Kigali), Stefano Paternostro
(Economist, AFTM3), Angele Whittaker (Research Analyst, AFTM3), Hassane Cisse
(lawyer, LEGAF), Catherine Laurent (Public Sector Management Specialist, AFTI2),
Martin Webber (PSD Specialist, consultant), Takamasa Akiyama (commodities
specialist, DECRG), Nanae Yabuki (tea specialist, DECRG), and Nadege Nouviale (team
assistant, AFTM3). Menahem Prywes (AFTH4) and Toni Kayonga (AFMRW) also
contributed to the preparation of the credit, with their work on the social sector
expenditure review. The Sector Manager is Luca Barbone and the Country Director is
Emmanuel Mbi.



Amex C
Page I of 2
Summary of Tranche Release Conditions
Conditions                                    Actual/Expected
Implementation
Date
General Conditions
IDA is satisfied:
that the overall macroeconomic environment is conducive to sustainable growth and poverty
reduction.
with the implementation of the overall reform program as outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex A).
Conditons of BoardPiesentaion
Elimination of the export tax on coffee.                                      Done, Feb. 1999
Increase in tea producer prices.                                              Done, Feb. 1999
Presentation to the national Assembly of the commercial banlkng law.          Done, Nov. 1998
Agreement with IDA on the overaU budget allocations for the social sectors for 1999 and    Done, Nov. 1998
agreement with IDA on a framework for monitoring budget performance through the fiscal
year.
Selection of consultants and the start-up of the study on the regulatory and legislative  Done, January 1999
framework for the telecommunications sector.
Conditon of Effectveness
Presentation to the National Assembly of a draft labor code, satisfactory to IDA which, in    March 1999
particular, would not contain provisions for more than one minimum wage and not require
more than a notification of the ministry responsible for labor when a worker is laid-off by an
enterprise.
Acdionsfor the Fixed Tranche Release
Actual spending on education and healh sectors in 1999 is in accord with the allocations to  January 2000
these sectors in the national budget of 1999.
The establshment of adequate budgetary classification and monitoring arrangements,  September 1999
satisfactory to the Association, to ensure that budget allocations are in line with budget
objectives.
For the FY2000 budget, (i) set, in consultation with IDA, the targets for expenditures for the  November 1999
social sectors and other priority sectors; (ii) make budget allocations for FY2000 in
accordance with the targets.



Annex C
Summary of Tranche Release Conditions
Page 2 of 2
Conditions                                     Actual/Expected
lmplementation
Date
Adoption by Cabinet of a policy framework satisfactory to IDA, for market based  June 1999
distrbution systems for fertilizers, seeds and other agricultual inputs.
Presentation to the National Assembly, of legislation satisfactory to IDA, to liberalize the    September 1999
telecommunications sector.
Approval by Cabinet, of a strategy and plan satisfactory to IDA, for the privatization of the 9 September 1999
state-owned tea factories/estates.
Actionsfor the Floating Tranche Release
Enact legislation, satisfactory to IDA, to eliminate discaimination against women with  September 1999/
respect to inhertance and ownership rights, and adoption of a comprehensive action plan to   December 1999
eliminate other forms of discrimination against women, and improve access by women to
economic services and opportunities.
Enact appropriate legislation, satisfactory to IDA to: (i) abolish the existing Chamber of  June 1999
Commerce; and (ii) abolish the Coffee Stabilization Fund.
Enactment of an amendment, satisfactory to IDA, to the Internal Trade Act (Law No 35/91)  June 2000
to: (i) revoke the broad authority granted to the minister responsible for commerce to
control prices and profit margins, and specify the level of inventory of goods to be kept by
an enterprise; and (ii) grant the minister such powers as may be necessary to encourage
competition and enforce the provisions of the Act prohibiting anti-competitive practices.
Adoption by Cabinet of a comprehensive strategy, developed in consultation with the  March 2000
stakeholders, to revive the coffee sector, including the reform of OCIR-CAFE into an entity
that will regulate, promote and monitor the performance of the indusry.
Adoption by Cabinet of a regulatory framework, satisfactory to IDA, for the operation of the  March 2000
tea sector, including the reform of OCR-THE into an entity that will regulate, promote, and
monitor the performance of the tea sector.
Bring to the point of sale, starting from January 1, 1999, 20 additional state entepises. This  Ongoing
includes evaluation of the stocks of the enterprises to be sold, soliciting offers for the
purchase of share capital, the evaluation of any responses to such offers, selection of
successful bidders, and invitation of successful bidders to enter into good faith negotiations.
Approval by Cabinet of aplan, satisfactory to IDA, to split ELECTROGAZ, the    September 1999
power/water utilky parastatat into three new companies responsible for electricity, water,
and gas companies, and provide for private sector participation in the management and
ownership of the new companies; and (ii) enact legislation to terminate the monopoly status
of ELECTROGAZ.



Annex D
Page 1 of 2
Rwanda at a glance                                                            129199
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Sahran      Low-
Rwanda    Aftlea  Income       Dwpuo;xi damond
1997
Population, mid-year (mElns)                        7.9      614     Z048                Lire expectacy
GNP per cpitap(Alas metho  US$)                    210       S00       350
GNP (Atbas metod. US$ bilns)                        1.7      309       722
Average annual growth, 1061-97
Populton (X)                                        1.7       2.7      2.1                                    Gros
Labor force (%)                                     2.3       2.6      2.3     GNP                 k         Gross
Most recent stimate (lt  year available, 19917)                                capita       \             enroyment
Poverty (% opopulatn beobw naionalport ine)         51
Urban popuWtion (% of tohYpopuatin)                  6        32        28
life expectancy at bt (yeats)                       42        52        59
Infant mortaty (per 1.000 gIme bilhs)              125        90        78
Child malnuation (% of chilrn under 5)              29        27                        Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of popuAton)                 ..       44        71
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 1S+)                 40        43        47
Gross pnmary enrollment (%o f schoo-age populabon)  82        75        91                 RW8flde
Male                                              83        82       100                Low-comem group
Female                                            81        67        81
KEY ECONOhIlC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1966      1996      1997
Economic rafoe
GDP (USS blons)                           0.67      1.9       1.4      1.9
Gross domestic investment/GOP             13.8    15.9       10.3     10.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP         14.6    12.6       6.0       6.3                   Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 9.0      8.3      -9.7     -7.8
Gross naional savingslGOP                 16.5    14.1       4.2      -1.0
Current account balance/GDP                2.8    -3.1       -5.1     -7.9     Domesc
Interest paymentsGDP                       0.0      0.3       0.9      0.6     So inp                    Inveshment
Total debt/GDP                             7.2    22.1       79.6     62.6
Total debt service/exports                 2.7      8.2      41.4     28.4
Present value of deWGDP                    0.0      0.0      49.6     33.3
Present value of debt/exports              0.0      0.0    776.3    493.9
Indebtedness
1976486  1987-S        6 1996  1067  199402
(average annual growth)
GDP                               5.1    -4.6    12.0        10.9      7.3            -Rwanda
GNP per capita                    1.8    -5.2       5.4      -5.5      4.2                 Low-income gup
Exports of goods and services     6.1    -1.4    42.6         2.8     14.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1086      1996      1997     Growth rat of out  and lhvment()
(X of GOP)
Agriculture                               54.1    41.8       38.2     37.5
Industry                                  20.8    25.7       23.8     26.0     ao
Manuacturing                            13.5    17.7       16.7      19.0      c
Services                                  25.1    32.5       38.0     36.5        '                        go 9s    97
Pnvate comumpbon                          74.3    79.7       99.8     96.4    JCOO
General govementcnsumpon                  16.7    11.9       10.0     11.4                   GDI    _GOP
Imports of goods and services             19.4    202        26.0     24.0
1976-6  1987-97      1096      1907     Grawth  d  exports and npots()
(average annua/ grwt)
Agriutre                                   3.1    -5.4       12.0      7.6   106
Industry                                   7.2    -4.3       15.9     16.4     o
Manufacturing                            6.8    -1.3       15.1      16.6
Services                                  10.2    -3.7       102       9.9      a
Private consumption                        5.4    -2.0        35      11.6    40Y
General government consmtn                 3.3    -4.8       24.7     -2.6
Gross domestic investment                 11.7   -10.3       26.1     26.3     o
Imports of goods and services             10.6      3.2      5.1       7.2            - _Epmta           lm
Gross nabonal product                      5.1    -4.5       10.8     10.9 9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary esme
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wihh ils incom  average. If data are missin, the diamond will
be incomplete



Annex D
Page 2 of 2
Rwanda
PRICES and GOVEMENT  FINANCE
1176    INS        1666     137      his19a194%9
(% chagg) e)
Consuwmrpuices                             7.2    -1.1        8.9      12.0   60
lmplcit GOP deflatr                        -1.9    -7.0       9.7      18.8    40.'
Govwnwt onan                                                                   20^
(% ofGDP, ,ds cw g wraot                                                               , s )  a
Currant revenue                                    13.8       16.6    17.1            92   93   94   95   96   97
Curer4t budget balance                              2.3       3.5       57             -    GOP d~           CP
Overall surpkldeficit                              -6.6       -5.7     -2.5
TRADE
(USS mAins)                               17       1966      193      197      Expert and b port levels (USSI millIors)
Total expots (fob)                         114      186        62       93    u8
Coffee                                            143        43       45
o0h  agre                                          20         9       21    437
Manuhactu                                          10         5        18
Total impor" (cif)                                  323       257      343     z
Food                                               38        51       54    I46
Fuel and ergy                                      55        27        32
Capital goods                                      85         54       62      o *
91  92  93  94  95  go  97
ExportplOc index (1995=100)                  ..    165         86      102
Import pice idex (1995-100)                  ..      68       103       94               aExport      aImports
Term of rade (1995=100)                     ..    241          84      109            _            _
BALANCE d PAYMENTS
1976    1936       1n6      1997     Cu1ent amount balanc to GDP rtIo I%)
(USS mi/ins)
Exportsofgoodsandsesvkes                   122      230        84      116     0
Imports of goodsand services               154      403       363      447    -_
Resource balance                           -32    -173       -279    -331    -2
.3
Notincome                                   -4      -11       -15      -18    -4
Noetcwrerttrusfers                          54      124       223      201      .*
Curren account balance                      18      -0        -71     -147    4_
Fnawcig tims (net)                          -8       -8        54      118    J
Changesinn etreerves                       -10       68        17       20
MSemlo:                                                                         .._ __ _ _  _  _   _  _  _    _  _  _
Reserves wicchdu   gold (U)S mElns)         64      162       107      153
Conves  rate (DEC, bUVSS)                 92.8    87.8      306.0    302.4
EXTERNAL DEfT and RESOURCE FLOWS
197     116        1996     197
(USS mis)                                                                      C       _nwasllon of toal debt, 1197 (US$ mInilons)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed            48      430      1,111    1,164
IBRO                                       0        0         0        0                       G- I
IDA                                       21      196       536      558             F:. 1U
Totl debt seev                               3       20        37       36
IBRD                                       0        0         0        0          E:- t2
IDA                                        0        2         8       10
0: 535
Composito of net resourc flo
Offa grnts                                 0        0         0        0
Officsi credltors                         23       71        41       a:s33
PrbvateaeditArs                            0       -5         1       30
Foreign dred iwesmret                      0        0         0        0
Pabrqaty                                   0        0                                          C40
U*r1d Bank program
Commibtents                                6       81         0        0    A- NM                        E-  s
Dsbwursent                                 8       37        43       83     a-IDA      ce O- w Mo      F-Pfi
Principal rFpsymenI                        0        0         4        6    Ca-l                         G - Short4um
Not fiow                                   8       36        39       77
Inrerest pa                                0        2         4        4
Nettbsaft                                  8       35        35       73
Development Ecnmics                                                                                            1/29/99



Amnex E
Page 1 of I
Rwanda Social Indicators
Latest single year             Same reglonhlncome group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75      1980-85      1990-96              Africa      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)           4A            6.1          6.7             596.4        3,236.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                3.2          3.2          -0.6               2.7            1.8
Urban populabtion (% of population)             4.0       .  5.0           5.8              31.7           29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)         8.3           7.4          6.1                5.6           3.2
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                         ..            ..         51.2
Urban headcount index                           .            ..
Rural headcount index                           .            ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                            100          270          190                490           490
Consumer price index (1987=100)                 41            97          341                266           275
Food price index (1987=100)                      ..          102          142
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                  ..          9.7
Highest quintile                                 ..         39.0
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Heath (% of GDP)                               ..            ..          1.9                 ..           1.5
Education (% of GNP)                           ..          3.1            ..                5.3           3.6
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)         ..            ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                           ..          60           76
Male                                         ..           61           76
Female                                       ..           58           76
Access to safe water
(M of popuSaon)
Total                                          67            ..           ..                45            76
Urban                                       81             ..           ..                63            80
Rural                                        66            ..           ..                34            72
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                        ..           52           74                 56            80
DPT                                             ..          50           83                 55            81
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)             ..           28           29
Life expectancy at birth
Total                                          45           47           41                 52            63
Male                                         43           45           39                 51            62
Female                                       46           48           42                 54            64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)             142          120          129                 91            68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)           209           218          205                147            94
Adult (1S-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                 502          503          542                448           231
Female (per 1,000 popubton)                 403          409          461                376           206
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)              .,           ..        1,300
Worid Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, Worid Bank



Annex F
Page 1 of 3
Rwanda - Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture'                           40.1    36.5    37.2    36.6    33.2      32.4    31.6    29.6    30.8
Industry'                              21.0    21.8    23.2    25.4    22.9      22.8    22.6    22.1    24.6
Services?                              37.8    39.7    37.1    35.6    41.5      41.5    42.0    44.5    37.4
Total Consumption                       154.5   113.7   109.7   107.8   107.7    103.3   101.4    98.6    94.8
Gross domestic fixed                     4.3      8.6    10.3    10.0     9.8      16.1    16.5    18.0    21.4
investment
Government investment                   2.7     7.9     9.2     8.2      6.4      9.6      9.1     8.9      8.7
Private investment                      1.6     0.7      1.1     1.8     3.4      6.5      7.4     9.1    12.6
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)                           6.3      5.6     6.0     6.3     4.1      4.1      4.4      4.8      5.5
Imports (GNFS)                          65.1    27.9    26.0    24.0    21.6      23.5    22.3    21.4    21.7
Gross domestic savings                 -54.5   -13.7    -9.7    -7.8    -7.7       -3.3    -1.4      1.4      5.2
Gross national savingsc                  -1.9     7.4     4.2    -1.0    -3.7      -1.2     0.6      3.3      7.1
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                   750    1199    1395    1857    2075      2245    2487    2736    2749
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per              150.0   190.0   200.0   210.0   250.4   269.1   290.5   311.4   297.7
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1976
prices)
Gross domestic product at            -49.5%   36.6%   12.0%   10.9%   10.0%     8.5%     8.0%     7.5%     5.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                -50.5%   29.0%    8.8%   12.9%    8.7%     7.8%     7.1%     6.9%     5.6%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1976 prices)
Gross domestic product at            -38.9Yo  33.0%o   6.6%   -5.5%    6.8%     5.3%     4.9%     4.4%     1.9%
market prices
Total consumption                     -8.9Yo -14.9%    0.8%   -6.6%    5.2%     6.1%     2.3%     2.1%     1.4%
Private consumption                   1.4%  -19.7%   -1.5%   -4.9%    2.6%      7.4%     1.2%     2.1%     1.3%
(Continued)



Annex F
Page 2 of 3
Rwanda - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1994   1995   1996    1997   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFSb                        47.5    66.6    83.5   116.1    85.9    93.0   108.2   131.1   151.5
Merchandise FOB                     32.2    50.4   62.0   93.0   67.6    70.9    80.2    93.3   106.3
iports (GNFS)b                       488.3   334.0  362.6  446.6  448.7   528.4   554.3   584.5   595.8
Merchandise FOB                    367.4   194.1  213.3   279.2  276.1   328.3   353.8   378.5   390.9
Resource balance                     -440.8  -267.4  -279.1  -330.5  -362.8  -435.4  -446.1  -453.4  -444.3
Net current transfers                397.8  247.2   222.8  200.6   194.4   192.8   190.8   192.9    61.2
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance              -46.2   54.5    -3.5  -60.6  -108.7  -157.9  -169.4  -166.8  -292.2
(after official capital grants)
Net pnvate foreign direct              0.0    2.0      2.2     2.6    7.8       6.2      7.2     8.1      9.8
investment
Long-term loans (net)                   ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       ..
rfficial                             20.0   33.3    40.5    68.5   43.1    28.5    30.4    28.4    38.4
Private                                 .       .       .       .       .        .       .        .       .
Other capital (net, including           ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       ..
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                    3.1    59.6    17.5   29.2  -12.1   -10.1   -37.2   -54.4   -21.5
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of               -58.8%  -22.3%  -20.0%o -17.8%  -17.5%   -19.4%  -17.9%  -16.6%- 16.2%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1976 prices)
Merchandise exports                 -45.2%   15.0%   42.6%   26.3%    2.8%    14.0%    16.9%    15.9%    12.3%
(FOB)
Primary                            -58.5%   17.0%   46.2%   -8.3%    7.6%    9.2%    12.1%    12.2%    7.8%
Manufactures                       -38.8e 175.0%  -15.5%    2.8%    2.3%     2.5%    2.8%    10.1%   20.5%
Merchandise imports                   2.5%   10.7%    5.2%   48.4%  -14.0%    -4.0%    -2.5%    4.4%    4.7%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)
Current revenues                       4.6    17.7    16.6    17.1    14.6    16.6    16.8    17.5    18.9
Current expenditures                   13.5    12.1    13.1    11.4   11.5    12.4    12.2    12.0    12.5
(Continued)



Annex F
Page 3 of 3
Rwanda - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Cufrent account surplus (+)            -8.9    5.6    3.5    5.7       3.0      4.2      4.7     5.6      6.4
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                    2.7     7.9    9.2    8.2       6.4      9.5      9.1     8.9      8.7
Foreign financing                      -1.5    2.1    2.5      2.2     0.5      2.1      2.1     1.8      3.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market             12.1     7.9    7.9    6.8       5.5      5.4      5.1     4.9      5.3
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                      -49.2   37.5   22.5    12.8   -6.3    12.6         7.5     8.1      7.1
Private sector credit growth /        92.1   -10.8   -87.9   43.3    -9.1       9.1    -0.4      3.1      3.1
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1976 =100)
Merchandise export price              81.7   111.2   95.9   113.9   80.5    74.1    71.7    72.0    73.0
index
Merchandise import price             203.2   95.3    97.8   87.9   101.1   125.1   138.3   141.6   139.7
index
Merchandise terms of trade            40.2   116.6   98.1   129.6   79.7    59.2    51.8    50.8    52.3
index
Real exchange rate                   128.7   78.0   85.2   102.2   103.2   104.8   106.4   106.4   106.4
(US$/LCU)f
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                 64.0%   22.0%    8.9%   12.0%    7.0%     5.0%    5.0%     5.0%    5.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                         14.9%   54.2%    9.7%   18.6%    5.2%     5.0%    5.0%     4.7%    -4.4%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the govermnent to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



AnnexG
Page I of 1
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
External Financing of the Economic Reform Program
(mill. of US$)
Credit         Grant          Total
IDA                                   75.0                          75.0
Co/Parallel Financiers
African Development Bank            20.0                          20.0
European Union                                     60.0           60.0
Netherlands                                        25.0           25.0
United Kingdom                                     50.0           50.0
United States of America                            8.0            8.0
Canada                                              3.5            3.5
Sweden                                             18.0           18.0
Switzerland                                         4.0            4.0
Total    95.0           168.5          263.5



Annex H
Page 1 of 1
Generated: 02/19/99
Rwanda - Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                             1996        1997         1998        1999
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects under implementationa                12           12          11           8
Average implementation period (years)b                 5.43        5.82        6.53         6.39
Percent of problem projects" ,f
by number                                      58.33        41.67       18.18         12.5
by amnount                                     57.55        26.94       13.01        12.99
Percent of projects at riska d. 
by number                                     100.00        90.91       55.56         25.0
by amount                                      100.00       81.66       44.06        18.99
Disbursement ratio (%)8                              24.91        22.82       45.50       29.51
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)
Supervision resources (total US$)                   623.99       902.09      801.82      446.99
Average Supervision (US$/project)                     52.00       75.17       72.89        44.70
Memorandum item                                   Since FY80     Last five FYs
Projects evaluated by OED
by number                                             32              14
by amount (US$ millions)                          508.45          332.00
Percent rated U or HU
by number                                          56.25           71.43
by amount                                          60.39           73.70
a.  As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY)
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c.  Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the beginning of the
year: investment projects only.
f. Although not yet reflected in the project status report (PSR), both the actual and potential problem projects
currently remaining in the portfolio have been recently upgraded to a satisfactory status.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex I
Page I of I
Generated: 02/19/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Rwanda
Operations Portfolio
As of 15-Feb-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 38
Active Projects
RW-PE-51931     1999   GOV. OF RWANDA                    CRDF                                     0.00        5.00        0.00               5.18        0.00        0.00
RW-PE-2262      1994   GOVERNMENT                        PRIVATE SECTOR                           0.00       12.00        0.00               5.11        4.89        0.00
RW-PE-2241      1993   GOVT OF RWANDA                    ENERGY SECTOR                            0.00       26.00        0.00              15.46       15.73        0.00
RW-PE-2261      1992   GOVT OF RWANDA                    FOOD SEC & SOCIAL AC                     0.00       19.10        0.00               1.78        1.30       -4.26
RW-PE-2237      1991   GOVERNMENT                        HEALTH & POPULATION                      0.00       19.60        0.00               5.83        5.38        3.98
RW-PE-2242      1991   GOVT.                             EDUCATION SECT.CR.                       0.00       23.30        0.00               3.70        4.36        4.36
RW-PE-2245      1991   GOV.OF RWANDA                     SECOND COMMUNICATION                     0.00       12.80        2.66               2.11        5.14        2.03
RW-PE-2238      1990   GOVERNMENT                        TRANS.SECT.                              0.00       85.00        0.00              52.26        2.49       14.24
Total                                                                                             0.00      202.80        2.66              91.43       39.29       20.35
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 113.25              515.64              628.89
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               36.43              36.43
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 200.14              451.56              651.70
Amount sold                      :                0.00                4.38                4.38
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                4.38                4.38
Total Undisbursed                :               91.43                 .66               92.09
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Jan-99.
Generated by the Operations Information Systen (OIS)



Annex J
Page I of I
Geneated: 02/19/99
Rwanda
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commiitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998                   AEF HIGHLAND             .53    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            .53    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS)



21 3 0 '                                   2200 '                                        23 0 '                                    3d 0o3
U GAN DA                                g)A
0   <                          /   j    t              \   ~~~~~~T A N Z A N I A
RWANDA
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                          OFCONGO                            ,'A
_ lo3oe       (   PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                        Hi                        r<                            UJEf X             M                ''         '  p* 
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                           A                                                       yrb......
-   MAIN ROADS                                                                                                              cuco..... 
=    MAIN ROADS  ? x              =                               i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VEW6IGV GffU7A    <            ................................................... ,,,,,.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .. .......... 
t   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                      RE ;   _      
KEY        Cyang   u   <QJA^   'z**              25.     |
ANGA                              .,.            tOREST ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN MA WA  C                                                              MU, ,
BURUNIJI  ...                                                         1111105110    Butare~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (5  OOGO OAN
D   f   rIANZANIAX   ,      lSH                                                ,     ' ~~~~       ~      ~    ~        ~     ~~U5VNY  worm  B  U  R U   N  D   I  
DE  TANZANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MM                                                                                     ,1S1T
LJC)VINXkianyik    DEM. REP9                                                                                                                                    - N t This map was.................................BUD.U.  ,/0
ki uyg                                  B~01171                                                              lsinnto~h9J~
w n       Z  AM B IA   '.:.                    OF   C c   ON GOg                                            53I L     O      M      E     TKE       LO M ETERS   0   S  10  15  20  25  30  35  40  4 5  50   T h e    goond er ieo,  col ors,Gd e n o m in a tion s   W
7  <          g  R|0~M O Z A M B IQ U E   .\                                                                                                      M ILES  0    5      10    15     20    25     30       The    W orld  B ent    G ro up,  any  j udg mnent  T o
a0                                                                                                                                     K   00    f3' /\3o                                              3G30'  bany erndorosement er elcceptooce of soot IN
0                                                                           21311                                       3100'                                               hoondenies.~~~~~~~~~~~~WUy
00~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GSP



