Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23493
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-3 1820; IDA-3 182 1)
ON ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 75.0US$ MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
RWANDA
FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
02/08/2002
PREM 3
Economic Management and Social Policy
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 2001)
Currency Unit = RF (Rwanda Franc)
RF 420 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1 = RF 420
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:  C. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   E. Mbi
Sector Manager/Director:  C. Atta Mills
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    C. Obidegwu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                    I 1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   13
9. Partner Comments                                                                  15
10. Additional Information                                                           20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P057294                                      | Project Name: ECON. REC. CREDIT
Team Leader: Chukwuma F. Obidegwu                        TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date. February 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ECON. REC. CREDIT                             L/C/TF Nimber: IDA-31820;
IDA-31821
Country/Department: RWANDA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/29/1998                             Effective: 05/26/1999        05/26/1999
Appraisal:  01/15/1999                               MTR:
Approval:  03/30/1999                             Closing: 12/31/2000          03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GORtMINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners: NONE
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      C. Madavo                                Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                             Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:      Cadman A. Mills                           Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:  C. Obidegwu                              C. Obidegwu
ICR Primary Author:  Prosper Biabo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives and the ERC need to be assessed in the context of the exceptional economic, political and
institutional conditions that prevailed in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region during the last seven years.
The genocide in Rwanda in April-July 1994 resulted in the death of up to 800,000 people, the exodus of
two million refugees to neighboring countries, the internal displacement of another one million people, the
massive disruption of economic activities, the ouster of the ruling regime, and the destruction of the social
and institutional fabric. Since then, Rwanda made remarkable but bumpy progress toward peace, economic
recovery and stability, and rebuilding its social fabric and institutions. Most of the refugees who left the
country in 1994 have returned, especially in 1996/97 after Rwanda's used military force to break up the
camps in the DRC. This resulted in the massive return of about 1.2 million Rwandan refugees from the
DRC and Tanzania in three months from November 1996. However, some of the refugees, including
remnants of the forces that perpetrated the genocide, fled deeper into Zaire. After its success in breaking up
the refugee camps, the Rwandese army in alliance with rebel Congolese groups, ousted the regime of
Mobutu in Zaire. The massive return of the refugees, the success in resettling them, and the ouster of
Mobutu gave rise to optimism for peace and economic revival in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region.
Following the first wave in the massive return of refugees to Rwanda, a joint Bank-UN mission visited
Rwanda in December 1996 and assessed Rwanda's needs for resettlement and reintegration. In February
1999, a joint Bank/IMF mission collaborated with the GoR in preparing a policy framework document:
Post-Conflict Reconstruction: a Framework for Economic Policies (FEP) World Bank: Memorandum
and Recommendation of the President of IDA on the Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Credit for
Rwanda (Report No P-7149-RW, 6/11/97), Annex elaborating the Government's strategy for tackling the
social and economic challenges facing the country in the transition from post-conflict crisis to sustainable
development. The FEP provided the basis for the request for assistance under the IMF's Post-Conflict
Assistance, approved by the IMF Board in [March 1997] and the ERRC, approved by the Board in June
1997. The ERRC was part of the Bank's response to the intemational efforts needed to resettle and
reintegrate the refugees in communities in Rwanda. The progress made in the reforms identified in the FEP
strengthened the case for a full economic reform program and the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) was
conceived as the instrument for the Bank to support to the reform program alongside an IMF's ESAF.
However from late 1997, the Rwandan Govemment was increasingly preoccupied with the intensive
insurgency by Rwandese rebel groups from bases in the DRC. The Rwandan army entered the DRC in July
1998 in an effort to stem the attacks and also to support new rebel groups in the DRC fighting against the
regime that Rwanda had helped to install in Kinsasha. This resulted in a broad war, involving other African
countries fighting on the side of the DRC government and Uganda and Rwanda backing the rebels. While
the international community had acquiesced to the first military intervention of Rwanda in the DRC, this
second round raised concerns about the Rwanda government's intentions in the region, its commitment to
peace, reconciliation and development at home, and the diversion of resources to the military. These
concerns slowed the flow of development assistance from donors, particularly budget support.
This second military intervention, starting from July 1998, just after a successful donor meeting in June to
raise funds for the reform program, put the proposed reform program at risk, as donors initially withheld
financial support. The start of the preparation of the ERC was delayed while the Bank and the donor
community considered the implications of providing budget assistance to a country engaged in a war with
its neighbor. After agonizing over their support for reform in Rwanda for a few months, most donors
decided to resume budget support, following assurances by the Government of its intentions in the DRC
and its willingness to engage in negotiations for a peaceful resolution of the crisis. Following negotiations
under the auspices of the OAU and the UN, the belligerents signed a peace agreement (Lusaka Accord) to end the
conflict. However, it was not until January 2001, following a change of leadership in the DRC, that the
- 2 -



implementation of the Accord started. There is a sense of optimism in the region that progress will be made this
time in ending the conflict.. In the end, it was felt that Rwanda had understandable security concerns and
furthermore, a suspension of assistance would damage the fragile economic and social recovery of Rwanda
and increase risks of vulnerability, intensified conflict and population displacement. Thus, while not
condoning military actions, the Country Team and most of the donors agreed that the planned assistance
should be resumed. For the ERC, it was agreed that it should put emphasis on monitoring the budget
expenditures and increasing social spending, to mitigate the effect of the pressure for military spending.
The decision to move ahead was not one that pleased everyone but it typified the vexing decisions that have
to be taken in conflict-affected countries.
Rwanda's strategy for the transition from conflict to peace and development consisted of parallel programs
of socio-political and economic reforms aimed at national reconciliation, rapid economic growth and
poverty reduction. The GoR considered an economic reform program as the comerstone of its efforts to
build a peaceful and prosperous Rwanda. A climate of economic revival, with private sector led growth and
employment creation, and increased rural economic activity, was considered essential to success of the
processes of national reintegration and reconciliation that would underpin nation building. The ERC
supported the GoR's reform program aimed at sustaining the economic recovery and stability and laying
the institutional foundation for national reconciliation, sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction.
The strategic thrust of the program was a rapid transition from a lethargic state-controlled system to a
liberal economy, in which the state creates the proper social and economic institutions and the right
conditions for private sector-led growth, and all social groups in Rwanda have equal access to economic
opportunities. The program focused on (a) revitalizing agriculture and the rural economy; (b) building
human resources/social sector reform; (c) gender and the role of women; (d) private sector development;
and (e) public sector reform. These objectives and focus reflected the essential priorities for the transition
from emergency to economic development in post-conflict Rwanda, as identified both by the GoR and
reflected in its Letter of Development Policy, and by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
Credit Design
The preparation of the ERC was preceded by the elaboration, in 1998, of Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
and a Donors Meeting in June 1998, to discuss the policy framework and raise resources to support the
program. The Government prepared the PFP in collaboration of the Bank, the IMF, the European Union
and the AfDB, the principal financial backers of the reform program. At the Donors Meeting, the partners
including the Bank, pledged US$250 million in budget support, sufficient to close the projected financing
gap. Furthermore, some of these pledges were used to establish a Multilateral Debt Trust Fund (MDTF),
administered by the Bank, to service the multilateral debts (IDA, AfDB, IFAD) of Rwanda until Rwanda
receives assistance under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. This was to preclude any
interruption of the program and the support from multilateral institutions that would result from the failure
of the GoR to meet its debt-service obligations. The policy and institutional measures supported by the
proposed credit were considered essential to consolidate the economic recovery and stability while enabling
Rwanda make the transition, defacto and the jure, from a state controlled to a market-oriented economy.
The ERC was designed to be disbursed in three tranches consisting of an initial tranche of US$40 million
on effectiveness, a fixed tranche in January 31, 2000 of US$17.5 million, and a floating tranche of
US$17.5 million, expected to be disbursed in July 2000. The Government took substantial up-front actions
including the removal of the coffee export tax, the increase in the tea producer price and the submission to
the National Assembly of the long discussed revision of the Labor Code. Recognizing the fragile
socio-political situation in Rwanda, the Credit avoided tranche release conditionalities on measures that
could exacerbate social tensions, for instance retrenchment in the civil service. The conditionalities also
reflected a deliberate effort to prepare action plans for the next stage of reforms. The conditions for the
- 3 -



releases of the fixed and floating tranches are outlined in annex.
The operation was prepared over a six-month period. The Credit was signed April 9, 1999 and following
the fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness, declared effective on May 26, 1999. The first tranche was
released on May 29, 1999. The second tranche was released on July 27, 2000 following the full compliance
with the conditions for the release for the second tranche. The high level of oil prices starting in 1999 and
persisting in 2000-2001 raised the extemal financial needs of Rwanda far beyond the estimate made in the
preparation of the ERC. Following the request of the GoR, a supplemental credit to the ERC of US$15
million equivalent was prepared, packaged with similar supplementals for six other borrowers in the Africa
Region, and approved by the Board in December 22, 2000. The objectives of the supplemental were the
same as the original credit. The third/floating tranche was released in March 2001, following full
compliance with the conditionalities and the supplemental was also released in March 2001 on
effectiveness.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained unchanged and project design was not modified during the credit life cycle.
Sustain Economic Recovery and maintain macroeconomic stability; Transfer incomes to rural areas and
poor producers through the elimination of commodity taxes and increasing producer prices; Enhance
Gender equality and strengthen the participation of women in economic and social activities; Improve
agricultural productivity by ensuring the security of land tenure and the availability of agricultural inputs;
Improve access and quality of social services; Create jobs, broaden ownership of productive assets by
privatizing state owned enterprises and productive assets; Liberalize economic activities to open up
economic opportinities to all Rwandese social groups and thereby contribute to national reconciliation.
3.3 Original Components:
The reform program supported by the ERC had four major components: (i) maintaining macroeconomic
stability and improving public resource mobilization and management; (ii) developing market-oriented
agriculture and reviving the niral economy; (iii) enhancing the role of women; (iv) establishing the
institutional and legal framework conducive to private sector growth and competitiveness; and (v)
privatizing state enterprises and reforming public administration.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not modified.
Component; Cost; Rating
ALL; $75,000,000.00; S
PRIVATIZATION AND PSD; $15,000,000.00; S
PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM; $20,000,000.00; S
AGRICULTURE MARKET DEVELOPMENT; $20,000,000.00; S
HUMAN RES DEVELOPMENT; $20,000,000.00; S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was ensured by (i) consistency of objectives with the priorities of the CAS to support the
consolidation of the recovery of the economy and lay the foundations for sustainable growth and poverty
reduction; (ii) use of the lessons learned under the previous Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Credit,
(iii) intensive discussions with the Borrower leading to an agreed PFP and the participation of and
consultations with key partners on the program to be supported by the credit; (iv) credit design, which took
into account the institutional constraints and risks; and (v) strong commitment to reforms by the Borrower.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
- 4 -



4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ERC was implemented in the context of post-conflict domestic insecurity, heightened by broad regional
conflict in which Rwanda was deeply involved. Assistance from official development agencies fell short of
expectations and the region was not attractive destination for private investment. This affected the pace of
the implementation of the reforms, the supply response and the macroeconomic performance, and slowed
the transition from emergency to development. Nevertheless the program largely achieved its objectives of
consolidating the economic recovery and stability and laying the institutional basis for sustained economic
growth and poverty reduction. The economy remained stable and continued its rebound from the decline in
1994. Poverty, measured by the headcount index decline from an estimated 70 percent in 1997 to 65
percent in 1999. The program achieved the structural reform objectives to liberalize the economy and build
the institutional framework for the economy to simultaneously make the transition from emergency to
development, and from state controlled to private sector led economy. The implementation of the reform
program established the track record and basis for Rwanda to reach the Decision Point of the Enhanced
HIPC in December 2000.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The ERC was implemented in the context of post-conflict domestic insecurity, heightened by broad regional
conflict in which Rwanda was deeply involved. Assistance from official development agencies fell short of
expectations and the region was not attractive destination for private investment. This affected the pace of
the implementation of the reforms, the supply response and the macroeconomic performance, and slowed
the transition from emergency to development. Nevertheless the program largely achieved its objectives of
consolidating the economic recovery and stability and laying the institutional basis for sustained economic
growth and poverty reduction. The economy remained stable and continued its rebound from the decline in
1994. Poverty, measured by the headcount index decline from an estimated 70 percent in 1997 to 65
percent in 1999. The program achieved the structural reform objectives to liberalize the economy and build
the institutional framework for the economy to simultaneously make the transition from emergency to
development, and from state controlled to private sector led economy. The implementation of the reform
program established the track record and basis for Rwanda to reach the Decision Point of the Enhanced
HIPC in December 2000.
Macroeconomic Objectives
The macroeconomic performance was broadly in line with the ambitious program targets. The economy has
rebounded, growing by 70 percent in 1994-97 and 9.5 percent in 1998. The economy continued to grow,
albeit at a lower than expected rate, with real GDP growth rates of 5.9 percent in 1999 and 5.6 percent in
2000, below the projected rate of 8 percent. The growth of industrial output fell due to the sluggish demand
for industrial products resulting from the decline in the activities and related employment by intemational
NGOs and relief agencies. Furthermore, economic performance was negatively affected by the DRC war as
well as the oil price related extemal shocks.
Inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), declined from 17 percent in end- 1997 to an average
of 6.8 percent in 1998 and -2.5 percent in 1999, reflecting a steep decline in food prices. It rose to [4]
percent in 2000 reflecting adjustments in food prices, increased transportation costs due to higher fuel
costs, and overall increase in the prices of imported goods due to the depreciation of the exchange rate. On
the fiscal front, a number of measures were taken to rationalize the tax system and increase government
revenues - the establishment of a semi-autonomous revenue authority, the adoption of a new tax code, the
move away from a reliance on trade taxes, and the introduction of the VAT in 2001. However, revenue
performance in 1999 and 2000 were below targets, reflecting the deceleration of economic growth from
1999, the unexpected decline in import volumes combined with the planned tariff reduction, and the
start-up problems of the Revenue Authority. On the external front, the current account deficit excluding
- 5 -



official transfers amounted to 15.3 percent of GDP in 1999 compared to 16.9 percent in 1998. The deficit
rose to an estimated 16.8 percent of GDP in 2000. The gross intemational reserves have remained over 6
months of imports in 1999 and 2000 in accordance with the targets.
Achievements by Structural Components
Agriculture and Rural Development
In 1999, the GoR eliminated the 30 percent tax on coffee exports and increased the producer price of tea by
37 percent. These actions improved the incomes of poor farmers and the prospects for reviving both the
coffee and tea sectors. The removal of the coffee export tax in 1999 increased producer prices and attracted
a number of new firms into the marketing and processing of coffee. With competition among exporters,
producers have been the main beneficiaries of the removal of the tax. Another important development has
been the emergence of producers associations that have become active in selling coffee directly to exporters
and in distributing inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides to members. Legislation was passed in 2000 to
change the legal mandates of OCIR-Cafe and OCIR-The, the two parastatals involved in production,
marketing and regulatory functions in the coffee and tea sectors. The new agencies would be
industry-based, with mandates were limited to regulation, monitoring and promotion. Aggregate production
of both coffee and tea declined in 1999 but rose in 2000 but it is too early to assess the impact of the
measures, especially for tea where a more fundamental action - the privatization of the tea factories has not
yet taken place. Most of the coffee-processing plants have been privatized and the privatization of the 9
state-owned tea estates are expected to take place in 2001-2002.
In line with its policy of liberalization of markets, the Govemment has reaffirmed the policy of
market-based pricing and distribution of these inputs, thus abandoning the pre-genocide practice of state
control of the market for these inputs. This would encourage the adoption of modem inputs (fertilizers,
seeds) by farmers.
Gender Reforms
Gender issues have become important parts of the reform agenda and public debate in part because they
were included in the PFP and the ERC and thus elevated to the highest level of national decision-making.
The National Assembly passed, and the President signed into law in late 1999 an amendment to the civil
code to eliminate gender discrimination on inheritance and property rights. The revision of the labor code
eliminated the discrimination against women in the previous code. Progress has been made in promoting
gender issues through the coordinated efforts of the Ministry of Gender and Women in Development, local
Women NGOs, relief agencies and development partners including the World Bank. The Govemment has
developed a broad Gender Action Plan for 2000-2005. Under the ERC, a Comprehensive Legal Action
Plan, to eliminate all discrimination against women, was prepared in consultation with the stakeholders,
and with the assistance of the Bank. An IDF Grant was recently approved to support the implementation of
this Plan.
The situation of women in Rwanda is improving. Within the last two years, mandatory representation of
women in the national Assembly, the local councils and executive committees has become obligatory.
While enrolment of females lags that of males in tertiary education, the enrolment of females is at par with
that of males in secondary and primary education.
-6 -



Private Sector Development
The Government controlled Chamber of Commerce, to which all commercial enterprises were required to
belong, was abolished by law in 2000. The private sector has since formed the Rwanda Private Sector
Federation as the apex institution to represent its interests. The labor code was revised to remove
restrictions on labor movements and government intervention in the employment decisions of private firms.
The National Assembly also approved the revision of the Internal Trade law, to revoke the broad powers of
the Government to control prices and profit margins. These actions are in line with the objective of the
reform program to transform the economy of Rwanda, de facto and de-jure, from a state controlled to a
private sector-led growing economy. The Arbitrage Center was formally established but the lack of
capacity has impeded its effectiveness. The GoR and the private sector are addressing the problem of
capacity. The Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency (RIPA) was established by an Act of Parliament to
promote and facilitate investments, and promote exports and business development. The same law also
enacted a new liberal investment code that provided some incentives for investors. In early 2000, RIPA
opened for business.
Some progress was made in bank supervision and bank restructuring. The NBR continued to strengthen its
bank supervision department according to an agreed plan, and the restructuring plans agreed with some
commercial banks by June 2000 began to be implemented. The stock of non-performing loans of banks was
provisionally estimated at about 38 percent of credit to the private sector as of end-September 2000,
compared with just over 20 percent at end- 1997-mainly owing to a stricter application of the NBR's loan
classification procedures. Provisioning for these loans in accordance with requirements consistent with the
Basel Committee on Banking
Public Sector Reform
Privatization: The poor implementation capacity and weak response of domestic and foreign investors to
buy state owned enterprises (SOEs) offered for sale slowed the pace of privatization. However, the start-up
of the program in 1998, about 42 enterprises, out of about 70 existing SOEs, have been offered for sale,
about 35 have been brought to the point of sale, and the Cabinet has approved about 25 divestiture
transactions. Difficulties in obtaining titles and however delayed the transfer of properties to private
buyers. However, as of early 2001, 19 of the enterprises sold have become operational under the new
private owners. While efforts are continuing on finalizing the transactions and the sale of the remaining
commercial state enterprises, the focus has turned to major assets in utilities and the tea industry. With the
support of the Bank, the GoR has prepared and adopted strategies for the privatization of Rwandatel (the
telephone monopoly) and the nine publicly owned tea factories, and the restructuring/privatization of
Electrogaz, the energy/water utility.
The National Assembly has approved a regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector. This
framework was developed with the support of the Bank. For the tea industry, the strategy is to sell the
assets of the tea factories and the associated publicly owned estates to private investors, with minority
stakes reserved for cooperatives of tea out-growers. The latter was responding to the demand by the tea
out-growers for participation in the ownership of the factories. The strategy also provides for the
establishment of a Tea Board, an industry-based organization to promote the development of the tea
business. The privatization process for Rwandatel, the sale of majority shareholding to a strategic investor,
started February 2001 and the sale should be concluded within a year. The privatization of the tea
factories/estates will start with the offer of two estates for sale in early 2001. In May 2000, the Cabinet
approved a plan to restructure Electrogaz. As a first step, a private operator will be hired by end-2001 to
run the new restructured company, to be followed by a concession arrangement in later years.
Reform of Public Administration: The Govemment embarked in early 1998 on a program of civil service
-7 -



reform aimed at establishing a leaner, more efficient civil service. The first phase of the program, has
aimed at managing entry into and exit from the civil service, filling immediate staffing needs, enhancing the
control of the payroll, and rationalizing civil service remuneration,. This agenda was largely achieved. A
civil service census was carried out in late 1998 providing the basis for the rationalization of the civil
service. This facilitated the removal of ghost workers (over 7,000) and unqualified employees (about
3,000), and the regularization of the status of employees, largely returned refugees-teachers. In early 1999,
fringe benefits were monetized and civil service salaries, which had dropped by over one-half since 1993,
were increased by over 40 percent on average. The Government also privatized janitorial services formerly
carried out by civil servants. This has been reflected in improved janitorial services throughout the
government facilities.
Studies and consultations were undertaken to facilitate the overhaul the organization of public
administration and establish an appropriate framework for staffing and managing the public sector. A
restructuring of Government, with a view to focus attention on the key priorities of the country, was
undertaken in 1999. This resulted in a small increase in the number of ministries from [17 to 19]. Based on
this organizational arrangement, new organizational structures for each ministry/agency, consistent with the
vision of a lean efficient civil service, were prepared and submitted to cabinet for approval. Position
descriptions and related qualifications requirements, job categorization and grading were also prepared.
The National Assembly adopted the Public Service Code (Statut General de la Fonction Publique) in
2001, formalizing all the agreed institutional changes. The cabinet has approved the new organizational
structures and the deployment of staffing in new positions has been underway since mid-2000. As a result
of these changes, the staffing requirements for public administration has been reduced considerably to
about 9000 compared to the staffing level of over 13,000 in 1998. The new positions and job requirements
in the new public administration does not have room for current civil servants without a high school
diploma. Thus about 6,000 civil servants, mostly those unqualified have been retrenched.
Public Sector Resource Management: Since 1998, the Govemment treated the social sectors as budget
priorities, with increasing budget allocations to them. The policy, adopted in 1999 to protect the allocations
to the priority sectors from cuts during the course of the fiscal year, was respected in the mid-year budget
cuts in 1999 and 2000. For the 2001 budget, an expanded list of programs, including poverty focused
non-social sector activities, has been selected as priority program areas (PPAs). These PPAs receive
increased budget allocations and will be protected from budget cuts.
The Govemment introduced the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) approach to budgeting in
2000 for the 2001 budget. The strong commitment of the Govemment to the MTEF, the careful
preparations involving the sensitization of the key stakeholders including members of the National
Assembly, and the culture of budget discipline in Rwanda, bodes well for the success of the MTEF
approach. A new functional budget classification has been introduced to replace the existing complex
organization/economic classification.
The burden of security-related expenditures, while still high, is being progressively reduced and contained
within the budget allocation. Security related spending, as a proportion of GDP, is estimated to be 3.4
percent in 2000 compared to 4.3 percent in 1998 and 4.2 percent in 1999.
Monitoring of the budget spending and trends in poverty, and accountability and transparency of budget
transactions is improving. The budget flash report continues to provide monthly information on government
expenditures and commitments. The Poverty Observatoire du Rwanda (OPR), created in 1999 to monitor
trends in poverty and the impact of public policies and programs designed to reduce poverty is now
functioning. An expenditure monitoring and tracking survey of primary education and health facilities,
coordinated by the OPR, is underway. A National Tender Board and an Office of the Auditor-General were
established in 1998 and 1999 respectively.
- 8 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional change and development was important part of the reform program supported by the ERC.
The progress made in the implementation of the reform program has contributed to substantial institutional
development. The elimination of the instruments of state control through the revision of the Chamber of
Commerce Act, the Labor Code, the Intemal Trade Act, the new investment code, and the laws establishing
the Coffee and Tea Boards has moved forward the transformation of the economy from state-controlled to
private-sector led and established the institutional basis for rapid private sector development. The adoption
of a Public Service Code has provided the framework for the progressive overhaul of public administration,
and the enhancement of capacity and the improvement in public service provision. The budget reforms
undertaken and the adoption of the MTEF approach will lead to a result-oriented transparent and
accountable public expenditure management system. The establishment of the Office of the
Auditor-General and the National Tender Board should have lasting impact on accountability, transparency
and efficiency in the management of public resources.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factors affecting the implementation and outcomes of the reforms included (i) the security
situation in Rwanda and the region; (ii) the flow of resources from the donors; (iii) the capacity of the
Government to implement reforms; and (iv) the commitment of the GoR and the support of the civil society
to the reform program. Given the volatile nature of the situation in Rwanda, it is easy to separate these
factors into those that are or are not outside the control of the government.
The war in the DRC and the overall conflict in the region was a major hindrance to the implementation and
outcomes of the reform program. Private investment has been anemic due to the perception of Rwanda and
the region as insecure, fueled by the genocide and sustained by the conflict in the DRC. This insecurity
adversely affected the supply response to the policy reforms. It also affected the volume and reliability of
donor flows. The war in the DRC also led to a diversion of financial and human resources from the
development program to military uses. To the extent that Rwanda's military intervention in the DRC was a
response to the insurgency that was taking lives, destroying property and threatening to destabilize
Rwanda, this was a response to actions it could not control. However, the scope of the intervention was
within its control.
The weak response to the development needs of Rwanda by the bilateral donors, some of this weakness
resulting form the DRC conflict, affected the implementation and outcomes of the reformn program.
Rwanda experienced a huge loss of human resources in the genocide. It basically had to rebuild its public
administration, employing what was left of the prewar civil servants and new ones recruited from returned
old caseload refuges. In 1995 less than 5 percent of the civil servants had university education and a large
proportion did not finish high school. Furthermore, Rwanda also had a large agenda of reconstruction and
reform that stretched its thin capacity and adversely affected the pace of implementation of these programs.
Rwanda needed technical assistance and rapid capacity building for which it needed donor assistance.
Government commitment to the reform program was strong, and the organized private sector and local
-9-



NGOs generally supported the reforms. This somehow mitigated the effect of the weak capacity.
Factors generally subject to Government control
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Not applicable
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) was designed to finance eligible imports based on a negative list and
a counterpart funds from the imports to finance programs in the national budget. Disbursement of the credit
was made directly into a central bank account, which then credited the treasury with the equivalent amount
in domestic currency. An unanticipated sharp increase of intemational oil prices increased the financing
gap and the GOR requested a SDR 11.8 million supplemental credit to ERC to close the gap. Overall the
US$90 million from the ERC financed 10.2 percent of Rwanda's imports (cif) and 8.3 per cent of the total
budget expenditures from 1999 to 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reform program supported by ERC is likely. During six years of implementing
reforms, there have been no policy reversals. Rather there has been effort to build on and improve reforms
already made, for instance on the liberalization of the exchange rate. Reform measures are widely debated
before adoption, within the civil service, with the stakeholders, in the Cabinet and often the National
Assembly. In accordance with the Arusha Accord, Cabinet has to approve all key Government measures,
and decisions are by consensus. This process resulted in delays but helped to build ownership and promote
sustainability. Cabinet decisions and legislation adopted by the National Assembly were announced on
radio and subsequently published in the Official Gazette. Finally, the Government is committed to the
reform program and the economic liberalization is seen as a key anchor for the national reconciliation
effort. The Bank, the IMF, the European Union, AfDB and bilateral donors are continuing to support the
GoR's effort to deepen the reforms.
Nevertheless, Rwanda is entering into a period of implementation of complex social and political reforms
needed to foster national reconciliation and establish socio-political stability. These reforns include the
acceleration of the trials of the genocide suspects, using an adaptation of the traditional system of justice
(gacacha). Other reforms include the decentralization of government and the transition to full representative
government in 2003. While the approaches to these reforms are conceptually sound and there appears to be
strong commitment to them, implementation will be a challenge, especially given the fragile technical
capacity and social fabric. Furthermore, Rwanda will remain exposed to the insurgency from the
interahamwe militia, unless the Lusaka Accord is fully implemented. The implementation risks associated
with these socio-political reforms and the Lusaka Accord are also risks to the sustainability of the policy
and institutional reform program supported by the ERC.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The ERC is the first regular operation in Rwanda by the Bank since the genocide. It followed two
emergency operations designed to support economy recovery and capacity building and initiate policy
dialogue. The ERC was followed in 2000 by projects on education and rural water supply.
- 10 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank from implementation to completion is rated satisfactory. The reform program
was formulated through intensive consultations between the Government, the IMF, the Bank and other
development partners. It was clearly focused on actions needed to help Rwanda consolidate its ongoing
economic recovery and stability and enhance the prospects for national reconciliation. The Bank organized
a successful Donors Meeting that raised money in support of the reform program.
The Bank recognized the operation as a high risk one in a post-conflict country also involved in an extemal
war. The Bank considered the risks and the options, consulted with the development partners before
deciding to move ahead. The credit design also took into account the fragile post-conflict social situation
and the weak capacity of the GoR in formulating the conditionalities. However, the design of the program
underestimated the severity of the capacity problem and overestimated the pace of the decision-making
process in Government, particularly the Cabinet and the legislative process of the National Assembly.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was satisfactory. During program implementation, the Bank maintained a close and frank
dialogue with the Borrower and its main partners. Supervision missions were frequent, at least three times
in a year. The resident representative and economist, who were deeply involved in the dialogue during the
preparation of the credit, were also actively involved in the day-to-day supervision and monitoring of the
reform program. The supervision of the credit also benefited from the dialogue on parallel Bank supported
activities such as the PRSP, the preparation of the preliminary and decision point documents for the
enhanced HIPC, and the preparation of the CAS Progress Report in 1999. These activities required
intensive assessment of the progress of the reform program.
One area of weakness in Bank supervision was in supporting the Borrower with technical assistance to deal
with identified capacity problems. While it was realized in the design phase that TA would be essential to
implement the ambitious reform program, the Bank could not meet the needs for medium-term TA that
could have strengthened implementation capacity. This lack of capacity delayed the implementation of the
program.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. The Bank helped to sharpen the
reform agenda through frank and patient dialogue with the Government, carefully nurtured the ownership
of the reform program in the country by raising awareness in the local opinion and stakeholders of the need
for reforms to address Rwanda's deep-seated economic and social problems.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in the preparation of the credit was satisfactory. Between 1995 and 1997, the
government of Rwanda had successfully implemented two IMF staff monitored programs and made critical
reforms on the exchange and trade regimes and the financial sector. To prepare the PFP which provided the
framework for the reform program to be supported by the ERC, the Cabinet nominated a subcommittee of
ministers, headed by the Minister of Finance, to discuss the PFP with the Bank and Fund staff. This
Committee was eventually was transformed into the [National Commission for Reform], to guide the
implementation of the reform program. The draft PFP was debated in a cabinet meeting and specific
changes were proposed. It was clear that in the PFP discussions that the Rwandese would not buy into any
- 11 -



proposals that were not consistent with their objectives. The detailed discussion of the PFP in the Cabinet
and the consultation with groups outside the executive, strengthened the ownership of the reform program.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Borrower is also rated satisfactory. Overall, the Government approached the
reform program with a high degree of ownership. The lack of capacity often delayed the implementation of
the program but the authorities showed a willingness to take corrective action to avoid the interruption of
the program. The Cabinet put priority on items on the reform program in its deliberations. However, in
mid-2000, there was a backlog of items needing Cabinet approval that could have put the program
off-track. To clear this backlog, the Prime Minister called extraordinary sessions of the Cabinet. Program
monitoring was also weak. The GoR examined the options for dealing with the problem and decided that a
focal point was needed. In late 2000, it appointed a Permanent Secretary for Reform, with the primary
responsibility to coordinate and monitor the reform program.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
Performance of the implementation agency, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(MINECOFIN), was adequate. The instability in staffing in MINECOFIN was a problem for the
management of the reform program. As there was no specific project implementation unit, monitoring and
coordination was to be carried out by the Macroeconomic Department of MINECOFIN. However, frequent
changes in key personnel in the Department undernined the capacity to monitor the program.
The National Commission for Reform, which was active at the design stage, was less visible at the
implementation stage. Similarly, the Technical Reform Committee, composed of civil servants from key
ministries, active during the preparation of the Credit, was supposed to play a key coordinating role during
implementation. However, at this stage, it was dormant, and a result, the line ministries were often not
current in their responsibilities in the implementation of the program.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall perfornance of the Government during the ERC program is assessed as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The credit was an effective instrument in an emergency, post conflict situation, for improving the provision
of govemment services, stimulating private sector development and enhancing the prospect for national
reconciliation. The economic, political and social returns from such an investment in a post-conflict
situation is considerable. However to be effective, the design of the project needs to be sensitive to the
capacities in such situation. Some lessons learned include:
It is important to be flexible and patient, and to regularly consult with other development partners as the
capacity is often weak and the operating conditions are subject to unexpected change. There are often
widely divergent perceptions of the risks, which can be narrowed by dialogue between all the parties. Thus
open, frank and regular dialogue with the Govemment, and the development partners, and the civil society,
particularly the private sector, is essential for dealing with the volatile environment.
Regular supervision missions and strong monitoring by the Bank is essential as the Borrower's capacity is
often limited. Provision for capacity building is essential since without prior experience in the
implementation of reforms, initial expectations about the capacity to perform could be off the mark.
Experience in these situations show that the Government and the bank and the Fund are usually optimistic
about the capacity. Specifically in the case of Rwanda, we overestimated the speed of processing legislation
through the bureaucracy, the Cabinet and the National Assembly. To avoid delays and avoid undue
- 12 -



pressure on the National Assembly, it is recommended that conditionality be linked only to presentation of
the relevant laws to the National Assembly and not to the adoption of the laws
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
A.     Partner Comments
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
Central Projects and External Finance Bureau (CEPEX)
Tel. 7 54 36                 B.P. 6019                   Fax. 7 09 65
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit IDA 3182-RW)
B.     RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
Introduction
Lors dune reunion convoquee par la Banque Mondiale a Stockholm en juin 1998, les bailleurs de fonds ont
avalise le programme de reformes presente par le Gouvemement Rwandais, et ils ont promis leur appui
s'elevant a 250 millions USD (dont 60 millions de la Banque Mondiale).
Apres une certaine hesitation de la part des bailleurs de fonds due A la situation d'insecurite qui regnait
dans la sous-region, ces demiers se sont decides A poursuivre leur engagement au Rwanda afin de ne pas
aneantir tous les efforts qui avaient e  deployes pendant 4 ans pour la construction du pays. Pourtant, les
bailleurs ont exige du Gouvemement Rwandais que l'assistance accordee devait etre orientee vers un
programme de developpement, et qu'elle devrait ainsi appuyer un budget refletant les objectifs de
developpement et les priorites qu'ils a definis.
Lors de la reunion avec les bailleurs de fonds qui a eu lieu A Kigali en date du 10 novembre 1998, le
Gouvemement Rwandais a reaffirme son engagement A poursuivre son programme dans le cadre du budget
negocie dans le document-cadre de la politique de developpement et des reformes (Policy Framework Paper
- PFP). Celui-ci qui prevoyait le retrait progressif des depenses publiques du domaine de la securite en
faveur du secteur social. Il a souligne son engagement A developper la transparence dans les transactions
budgetaires et a demande une assistance pour renforcer les services y relatifs tels que le National Tender
Board et l'Office de l'Auditeur General. Le Gouvemement Rwandais a en outre r6affirm6 son engagement
A renforcer les efforts visant la reconciliation nationale, la promotion des droits de l'homme, et la recherche
d'une solution pacifique A la crise dans la sous-region.
En date du 23 fevrier 1999, le Gouvemement Rwandais a adresse une lettre a la Banque Mondiale dans
laquelle il detaillait son programme d'actions, les objectifs et les mesures politiques visant A consolider la
- 13-



relance et la stabilite economiques en cours, a reduire la pauvrete rurale, a renforcer le developpement des
ressources humaines, A developper les capacites, a relancer le secteur prive ainsi qu'A mettre sur pied un
systeme economique diversifie. Enfm, le Gouvemement Rwandais, se declarant engage A executer ce
programme, a sollicite l'assistance de la Banque Mondiale pour la mise en ceuvre de toutes ces reformes
economiques et il a obtenu de l'Association International pour le Developpement (IDA) un credit d'un
montant de 53.000.000 DTS. L'accord y relatif a ete signe le 09 avril 1999.
L'Accord prevoyait que ce Credit serait libere en trois (3) tranches:
(1) Premiere Tranche:             DTS 28.400.000 (40 millions USD)
(2) Deuxieme Tranche:      DTS 12.300.000 (17.5 millions USD)
(3) Troisieme Tranche:            DTS 12.300.000 (17.5 millions USD)
TOTAL               DTS 53.000.000
La premiere tranche devait etre libere A la mise en vigueur du credit. Les conditions generales pour la
liberation des tranches etaient:
* le cadre des mesures de la politique macro-economique du pays est compatible avec les objectifs du
programme;
* I'avancement dans l'execution du programme par l'emprunteur est satisfaisant A 1'egard de l'IDA.
Le Conseil d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale a accorde un credit supplementaire d'un montant de
11,8 millions de DTS (environ 15 millions USD) le 22 decembre 2000, suite A la haute augmentation des
prix des produits petroliers qui n'avait pas et prevue lors de la preparation du credit.
Voici les dates de liberation des trois tranches : la premiere tranche de 28,4 millions de DTS a ete libere le
29 mai 1999, la deuxieme le 27 juillet 2000, et le troisieme en mars 2001.
- 14 -



Objectifs et mise en oeuvre
L'objectif primordial du credit etait d'aider le Rwanda a consolider la relance et la stabilite economiques
qui etaient en cours, de reduire la pauvrete rurale, de relancer le secteur prive et de mettre sur pied un
systeme economique ouvert a tous les Rwandais afm de favoriser la reconciliation de la population.
Le programme de reforme finance par le Credit comportait les composantes suivantes:
1)    la gestion des ressources et la gestion macroeconomique y compris une politique fiscale et
monetaire prudente   afin d'assurer la stabilite macroeconomique;
2)     les refornes structurelles, y compris le developpement d'une agriculture de marche, le
developpement du            secteur prive ainsi que le reforme de l'administration publique;
3)     le renforcement du r6le de la femme ; et
4)     la privatisation des entreprises de l'Etat ainsi que la reforme de l'administration publique.
Etant donnee la situation difficile dans laquelle se trouvait le Rwanda pendait les annees de la periode
post-genocide, le Gouvemement a voulu engager un programme de reformes socio-politiques et
economiques qui devaient constituer la base pour la reconstruction du pays avec l'objectif d'atteindre la
reconciliation de la population, de reduire la pauvrete et d'atteindre une croissance economique rapide.
Le Credit 3182-RW devait alors aider le Rwanda a revitaliser son economie, et les objectifs qu'ils s'etait
fixe correspondaient tout a fait aux priorites du pays pour la transition allant de la periode d'urgence a la
periode de developpement durable.
Le credit octroye a permis au Rwanda d'atteindre des resultats satisfaisants, notamment:
*      le PIB a connu une croissance de 5,9 en 1999 et de 5,6 en 2000;
*      la taxe sur 1'exportation du cafe a ete supprimee et le prix du the accorde au producteur a ete
augmente;
*      les unites de depulpage de cafe ont ete privatisees;
*      les prix des produits agricoles ainsi que la commercialisation des intrants agricoles ont e
completement         liberalises ; ceci devrait aboutir a une meilleure distribution et une meilleure
utilisation d'intrants modemes;
*      I'approche ( genre >> est prise en consideration a tous les niveaux ; a titre d'exemple, le code civil a
ete           egalement revis6 dans le meme sens;
a      le secteur prive a connu plusieurs reformes, notamment la creation d'un centre d'arbitrage, la
creation de la Federation Rwandaise du Secteur Prive (apres la suppression de la << Chambre de
Commerce et d'Industrie >>),  la revision du Code du Travail et la creation de l'Office Rwandais de
Promotion des Investissements;
*      plusieurs entreprises publiques ont ete privatisees ou sont en voie de l'etre;
*      les strategies pour la privatisation de Rwandatel ainsi que des usines a the appartenant a l'Etat ont
et preparees  et adoptees;
*      le Gouvemement a approuve le plan de restructuration de l'ELECTROGAZ;
*      le secteur public a connu d'autres reformes : rationalisation de la Fonction Publique et
regularisation des statuts  des agents de l'Etat, privatisation de certaines taches (par exemple
gardiennage et nettoyage des batiments publics), et tout recemment l'adoption de la nouvelle loi sur les
statuts des agents de la Fonction Publique;
- 15 -



*      le budget de l'Etat est regulierement et mieux suivi, et le Gouvemement a mis un accent particulier
sur les       secteurs sociaux, dont la part au budget a sensiblement augmente;
*      I'Observateur de la Pauvrete a ete cree avec le but de suivre de pres et de coordonner les politiques
et les programmes visant la reduction de la pauvrete et il est deja operationnel.
Performance de la Banque Mondiale
La Banque mondiale a appuye sensiblement le Gouvemement Rwandais lors de la fonnulation du
programme de reformes et elle a organise des reunions et des consultations avec d'autres bailleurs de fonds
a travers lesquelles les fonds necessaires pour appuyer le programme de reformes ont pu etre trouves.
La Banque a reconnu la situation particulierement difficile dans laquelle se trouvait le Rwanda et a evite
d'imposer au Gouvemement Rwandais des conditions trop rigoureuses pour la liberation des differentes
tranches du Credit.
La Banque a suivi de tres pres la mise en aeuvre du credit, et plusieurs missions de supervision ont ete
effectuees pour se rendre compte de son etat d'execution. Ces missions ont men6 des discussions avec les
autorites du pays et les differents partenaires, et ont donne leurs observations et recommandations a travers
des aide-memoires, ce qui a e d'une grande utilite pour le bon avancement de l'execution du Credit.
Performance de l'Emprunteur
DMs la preparation du credit, le Gouvemement Rwandais a fait preuve d'un engagement tres pousse pour sa
bonne mise en 'euvre: le Conseil des Ministres a discute du PFP et il a mis sur pied une equipe de haut
niveau qui devait poursuivre les discussions avec la Banque mondiale et le FMI, et les corrections
necessaires y ont e apportees.
Malgre les changements qui ont eu lieu au sein du Ministere des Finances et de la Planification
Economique, specialement au poste de Secretaire G6neral, le Gouvernement a suivi de pres la nuise en
ceuvre du credit au niveau macroeconomique, et les differentes reformes qui constituaient les conditions
prealables pour la liberation des tranches ont e realisees, meme si parfois des retards etaient constates.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no co-financiers in the ERC, although the project benefited from a number of simultaneous and
complimentary activities financed in parallel by other donors.
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
- 18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 3: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose                               Year     of Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Sectoral &   Pre-investment Assist Government to strengthen its planning 1987  Closed
Studies                       and investment capabilities
2. Energy Sector              Promote  rational  energy  policies  and 1993    Ongoing
establish basis for efficient utilization of
Rwanda's energy resources.
3. Communications II          Promote efficient communications through 1990    Closed
institutional reform.
4. Private Sector Development  Promote expansion of the private sector, 1993   Closed
establish APEX line of credit and support
fund,  and   support  for  institutional
strengthening.
7. Health and Population      Support implementation of the National 1991      Ongoing
Health Strategy, and the formulation and
implementation of a population policy.
10: Emergency Recovery Credit  Support the restoration of public services and  Closed
the revival of private sector activity.
10. Emergency Reintegration and Support the provision of services to returned 1997  Closed
Recovery Credit               refugees  and  the  population  and  the
reconstruction of Rwanda
Following Operations
17. Community Reintegration and To explore the process of decentralization 1999  Ongoing
Dev. Project (LIL)            and participation for community reintegration
and development.
13. Agriculture  Rural Market To explore the process of rural market 2000      Ongoing
Development (LIL)             development for agricultural intensification.
19. Rural Water Supply    and Support water projects in rural communities 2000  Ongoing
Sanitation                    using a participatory approach to design and
management.
15.  Human    Resources   and Support capacity building through education 2000  Ongoing
Development Project           and skills development.
12. Rural Sector Support Project  Support agricultural intensification and the 2001  Ongoing
revitalization of the rural economy.
14. Competitiveness and Enterprise Support the development of competitive 2001  Ongoing
Development Project           private enterprises.
-19 -



Table 4: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle       Date Planned                Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Board Approval               March 30, 1999              March 30, 1999
Effectiveness                May 26, 1999                May 26, 1999
Closing Date                 December 31, 2000*          March 31, 2001
PSR                          December 30, 1999           December 30, 1999
Last Site Visit              July 20, 2000               February 10, 2001
* The closing date was expected November 30, 2000
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/98                         5   Economists (2)
Commodity Specialists (2)
ResRep
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/98                       6    Economists (3), Private
Sector Dev. Specialist, Public
Sector Mgmt Specialist
2/99                         4   ResRep, Lawyer, Economists (2)
Supervision
07/99                        2   Economists                         S             S
11/99                        4   Economists (2)                     U             S
03/00                        4   Economists (2), Op.                S             S
Officer/Social Scientist, ResRep
07/00                        3   Economists (2), Commodity          S             S
Specialist
11/00                        3   Economists (2), Gender             S             S
Specialist, Lawyer
02/01                        2   Economists (2)                     S             S
ICR
(b) Staff3
Stage of Project Cycle  1                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
?Macro policies                         O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
F Physical                              O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
F Financial                             O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
F Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
ISEnvironmental                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction               O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
f Gender                          *IH OSUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
F Private sector development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
* Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               0 H  O SU O M   0 N   * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
 Overall                                           OHS     S s  O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
3 Preparation                                       OHS OS      O u    O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      O U    0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS      OU     O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Table 3: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title         Purpose                                            Year   of Status
Approval
Precedin2 Operations
1. Sectoral & Pre-investment Assist Govermment to strengthen its planning and investment 1987  Closed
Studies                  capabilities
2. Energy Sector          Promote rational energy policies and establish basis for 1993  Ongoing
efficient utilization of Rwanda's energy resources.
3. Comnmunications II     Promote efficient communications through institutional 1990  Closed
reform.
4.     Private     Sector Promote expansion of the private sector, establish APEX line 1993  Closed
Development               of credit and support fund, and support for institutional
strengthening.
7. Health and Population  Support implementation of the National Health Strategy, and 1991  Ongoing
the formulation and implementation of a population policy.
10: Emergency Recovery   Support the restoration of public services and the revival of  Closed
Credit                    private sector activity.
10. Emergency Reintegration Support the provision of services to returned refugees and the 1997  Closed
and Recovery Credit       population and the reconstruction of Rwanda
Following Operations
17. Community Reintegration To explore the process of decentralization and participation 1999  Ongoing
and Dev. Project (LIL)    for community reintegration and development.
13. Agriculture Rural Market To explore the process of niral market development for 2000  Ongoing
Development (LIL)         agricultural intensification.
19. Rural Water Supply and Support water projects in rural communities using a 2000   Ongoing
Sanitation               participatory approach to design and management.
15. Human Resources and Support capacity building through education and skills 2000   Ongoing
Development Project       development.
12. Rural Sector Support Support agricultural intensification and the revitalization of 2001  Ongoing
Project                   the rural economy.
14.  Competitiveness  and Support the development of competitive private enterprises.  2001  Ongoing
Enterprise   Development
Project
- 24 -



Table 4: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle      Date Planned                Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Board Approval              March 30, 1999              March 30, 1999
Effectiveness               May 26, 1999                May 26, 1999
Closing Date                December 31, 2000*          March 31, 2001
PSR                         December 30, 1999           December 30, 1999
Last Site Visit             July 20, 2000               February 10, 2001
* The closing date was expected November 30, 2000
- 25 -



Table 5: Costs and Financing
Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursement (US$ millions equivalent)
Bank Fiscal Year                 FY99           FY00             FOI
Appraisal estimate                  40             35              0
Cumulative                          40             75             75
Actual                              40             35            15*
Cumulative                          40             75             90
Actual as % of estimate          100.0          100.0           120.0
__~~~~~7
* A supplemental credit of US$ 15 million was approved by the Board on December 22, 2000
Table 6: Bank Resources - Input by Resource Type
Nature of  Staff / Weeks       Labor        Travel        Others    Total Costs
Staff                                                                 US$
Consultants           0.00          0.00          0.00     19,437.16     19,432.16
WB Staff              38.64   135,027.59     55,076.32          0.00    190,142.55
Others                0.00          0.00          0.00        102.84        102.84
(DHL,...)
TOTAL                38.64    135,027.59     55,076.32     19,540.00    209,682.55
Source: SAP - WB
- 26 -



Table 7: Bank Resources - Missions
Program Cycle           Month/    No of   Specialized Staff Skills  Per. Rating Per. Rating
Year     Persons  Represented           Imple-ment Develop-me
ation Status nt
Objectives
Through Appraisal       Aug/98    5       Economist (2),
Commodity Specialists
(2), ResRep
Nov/98    6       Economist (3), Private
Sector Dev Specialist,
Public Sector Mgmt
Specialist.
Appraisal through Board  Feb/99   4       ResRep, Lawyer,
Approval                                  Economist (2)
Supervision I          July/99    2       Economist (2)         Substantial  Substantial
Supervision 2           Nov/99    4        Economists (2),       Modest      Substantial
Gender specialist/Op.
Officer, Gender
specialist/lawyer
Supervision 3           Mar/00    4       Economists (2), Op.   Substantial  Substantial
officer/social scientist,
Resrep
Supervision 4           July/00   3        Economists (2),       Substantial  Substantial
Commodity specialist
Supervision 5            Nov/00   3        Economists (2),       Substantial  Substantial
Gender
specialist-lawyer
Supervision 6          Feb/01    2        Economist (2)         Substantial  Substantial
Note: Number of Persons refers to persons participated in the different missions; therefore, if one
participates in three missions during preparation to appraisal that is considered as three persons.
- 27 -



Table 8: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
1996          1998   1999  2000   2001   2002
Real GDP growth                        15.8   12.8    9.5    5.9    5.2    6.0    6.4
Inflation (CPI change)                  8.9   11.7    6.8   -2.4    3.9    3.0,   3.0
As % of GDP
Gross domestic investment              15.5   14.9   15.7   14.3   15.7   16.9   17.6
Gross domestic savings                 -4.3   -2.8   -1.7   -1.4   -1.1   -2.5   -0.6
Govemment revenues                      9.1   10.3   10.4    9.8   10.0   10.9   11.7
Total grants                            7.3    6.7    5.2    5.9    9.6    4.7    4.8
Total government expenditure           22.1   19.5   18.6   19.7   19.8   20.4   20.5
Fiscal balance (include grants)        -5.7   -2.4   -2.9   -4.0   -0.2   -4.8   -4.0
Current account balance (incl. Transfers)  -0.2  -3.2  -4.8  -2.8   0.3  -10.2   -8.6
Off. Reserves (months of imports)         5      5      6     7      9      7      7
External debt (% of GDP)                 79     61    58     68     77     73     66
Memo:
Exchange rage (RWF per dollar)          307    302   314    335    390    414    420
GDP million US dollar                  1407   1860  2012   1928   1761   1808   1957
Source: World Bank
Rwanda Economic Reform Program under the Economic Recovery Credit
Donors Contribution (US$ miUlions)
AGENCY/DONOR         Initial PLEDGE            CONTRIBUTION
___________________  ________________C          reditG rantTotal
IDA                             60                                   90.090.0
AfDB                            20                                   20.020.0
EU                              60                                   60.060.0
Netherlands                     25                                   25.025.0
UK                              50                                   50.050.0
USA                              8                                     8.08.0
Canada                         3.5
Sweden                          18                                   18.018.0
Switzerland                    4.0
TOTAL                        248.5                            110.0161.0256.5
ource: World Bank and IMFstaff estimates
- 28 -



- 29 -



