Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
June 9, 2006 
 
H.E. Aleksi Aleksishvili 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
70, Ir. Abashidze street 
0162 Tbilisi 
Georgia 
 
Re: Japanese Grant for the Co-financing of the Avian Influenza Control 
and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project 
Grant Number TF 056631
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding one million four hundred thousand US dollars (US$1,400,000) (the Grant) to 
Georgia (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure. The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  This Letter 
Page  2
2
Agreement will become effective upon: (a) your countersignature; and (b) IDA declaration of 
the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement between the Recipient and IDA, providing for the 
IDA grant financing of the above project. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/
 
Van Roy Southworth 
Country Manager for Georgia 
South Caucasus Country Unit 
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
GEORGIA 
 
By:  /s/  E. Aleksi Aleksishvili  
Title:     Minister of Finance  
Date: June 
9, 
2006 
 
Page  3
3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purposes of the Grant is to provide co-financing of the Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project (the Project), which main objective is to 
minimize the threat posed to humans and to the poultry industry by Highly Pathogenic Avian 
Influenza (HPAI) infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry industry, and prepare for, 
control, and respond to influenza pandemics, and other infectious disease emergencies in 
humans.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
Component 1
:
Animal Health
A. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for strengthening the legal, regulatory and 
institutional framework for HPAI detection, prevention, containment and eradication. 
B. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for the development of a comprehensive 
HPAI national action and contingency plan, and assistance in the related implementation, 
information exchange and training activities, and development of a national compensation policy 
and compensation of eligible poultry owners for culled poultry. 
C. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for strengthening the HPAI monitoring and 
containment system and diagnostic capacity. 
D. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for strengthening animal disease 
information systems. 
Component 2
:
Human Health
A. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for enhancement of public health program 
planning and coordination. 
B. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for strengthening the national public health 
surveillance systems, though improvements of laboratory networks, and improvement of health 
information and telecommunication systems. 
C. 
 Provision of technical assistance and training for strengthening health system response 
capacity, through social distancing measures, vaccination support and antiviral therapy, and 
medical care. 
Page  4
4
Component 3
:
Public Awareness and Communication
Provision of technical assistance and training for development and implementation of a 
national HPAI public awareness, information and communication strategy.  
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient, through the Governmental Steering Commission on Avian Influenza in 
Georgia, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Labor, Health, and Social Affairs, shall: 
(a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering 
the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time 
to time exchange views with IDA
’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) 
take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes 
related to the Grant; and (f) cause services and training activities financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the 
Activities. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Activities are carried out in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual, setting forth the  procedures and rules for Project implementation, including  
administrative, environmental, procurement, and financial management activities, and satisfactory 
to IDA. 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of services required for the carrying out 
of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Attachment I to this Annex, as said provisions may be further elaborated in a 
procurement plan approved by IDA (the Procurement Plan), covering the initial eighteen (18) 
month (or longer) period of implementation of the Activities. The Recipient shall update the 
Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to IDA, and furnish such update to 
IDA not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
IDA’s approval. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this paragraph 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost 
of services and training required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to the Category, and the percentage of expenditures 
for items so to be financed in the Category: 
Page  5
5
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in US dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ services  
1,086,000 
       80% 
 
(2) Training  
   314,000
80% 
 
TOTAL 
 
1,400,000
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “training” means expenditures incurred in connection 
with Activities-related in-country study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other 
training activities, including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers. 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; and (ii) for the purpose 
of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may withdraw amounts of the Grant only to the extent that such 
amounts are available to IDA from Japan for the purposes of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after August 31, 2009, or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, 
except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of 
IDA approval of financing for the Project. However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing 
Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application 
is received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance, or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request. Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities. IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
Page  6
6
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 
equivalent each; and (c) training, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant. IDA, at 
the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in US 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the National Bank of Georgia, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the  financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above for each such fiscal year (or other period agreed to by IDA), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards, acceptable to IDA, by independent auditors acceptable to 
IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by IDA): (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year (or such other  period agreed to by 
IDA), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and  detail 
satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning such records and 
accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall have 
reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  (i) retain, until at least one 
(1) year after IDA has received the audit report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (ii) enable IDA’s representatives to examine 
such records; and (iii) ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the audit for each 
fiscal year, or other period agreed to by IDA, referred to in subparagraph (b) above. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient shall submit quarterly unaudited financial reports (FMRs) to IDA 
within forty five (45) days of the end of the each quarter and the content and format acceptable to 
IDA. 
 
Page  7
7
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit, grant or financing agreement 
with the IDA has been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account has been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 
above; or (b) if the Recipient shall has failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six (6) months 
after the effective date of this Agreement, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (d) if the Credit 
or Project is cancelled or closed. 
 
Page  8
8
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, dated May 
2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Attachment.   
 
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Attachment to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by IDA of particular contracts, have the meanings ascribed to them 
in the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract 
may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which IDA agrees meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less than 
US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in 
the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source 
basis. 
 
Section III
.
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
Except as IDA shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, each contract for 
consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000
 
or more, shall be subject to 
Prior Review by IDA. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by IDA. 
Page  9
9
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Category(ies)” means the Category(ies) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of US$150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  10
10
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
