Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4179 GE 
GRANT NUMBER H228 GE 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response 
Project) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 9, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4179 GE 
GRANT NUMBER H228 GE 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 9, 2006, between GEORGIA (
“Recipient”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient 
and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit in the following 
amounts to assist in financing the project (“Project”) described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to two million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,500,000) (“Grant”); and 
(b) 
an amount equivalent to two million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,500,000) (“Credit”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project which is 
part of the Association’s Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response, designed to help countries in 
prevention, containment, control and eradication of avian influenza.  To this end, 
the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement 
is September 30, 2006. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Recipient. 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
70, Irakli Abashidze Street 
0162 Tbilisi 
Georgia  
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.    
 
GEORGIA  
 
By /s/ Aleksi Aleksishvili 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Van Roy Southworth 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in minimizing the threat 
posed to humans and to the poultry industry by the HPAI infection and other zoonoses in 
domestic poultry industry, and preparing for, controlling, and responding to influenza 
pandemics, and other infectious disease emergencies in humans.  The Project consists of 
the following components: 
Component 1
:
Animal Health
A. 
Strengthening the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for the HPAI 
detection, prevention, containment and eradication. 
B. 
Development of a comprehensive HPAI national action and contingency plan, 
and assistance in the related implementation, information exchange and training 
activities, and development of a national compensation policy and compensation of 
eligible poultry owners for culled poultry. 
C. 
Strengthening the HPAI monitoring and containment system and diagnostic 
capacity. 
D. 
Strengthening animal disease information systems. 
E. 
Assistance in component management, implementation and monitoring. 
Component  2
:
Human Health
A. 
Enhancement of public health program planning and coordination. 
B. 
Strengthening the national public health surveillance systems, though 
improvements of laboratory networks, and improvement of health information and 
telecommunication systems. 
C. 
 Strengthening health system response capacity, through social distancing 
measures, vaccination support and antiviral therapy, and medical care. 
D. 
Assistance in component management, implementation and monitoring. 
Component  3
:
Public Awareness and Communication
Development and implementation of a national HPAI public awareness, 
information and communication strategy. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The GSCAIG shall be responsible for the overall coordination, oversight, and 
strategic and policy direction of the Project, including approval of annual work plans for 
the implementation of the Project.  On day-to-day basis, the GSCAIG shall be assisted by 
the PIT.  The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Operational Manual, including the EMP.  The Recipient shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Operational Manual, including the EMP, 
without the prior approval of the Association. 
2. 
Component 1
 of the Project shall be implemented under the overall supervision 
and management of the MoA, which shall be assisted in financial management, 
procurement and disbursement functions by the PCC.  The Recipient shall ensure that 
Component 1.B shall be carried out in accordance with the Compensation Funding 
Manual. The Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Compensation 
Funding Manual without the prior approval of the Association. 
3. 
Component 2
 of the Project shall be implemented under the overall supervision 
of the MoLHSA, which shall be assisted in financial management, procurement and 
disbursement functions by the GHSPIC. 
4. 
Component 3
 of the Project shall be implemented under the overall supervision 
of the MoLHSA, which shall be assisted in financial management, procurement and 
disbursement functions by the GHSPIC. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of six (6) months, and shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of each 
Page  7
-
6
-
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  8
-
7
-
Procurement Method
(a)  Limited International Competitive Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding  
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification 
(b)  Individual Consultants 
(c)  Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
The Procurement Plan shall specify those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit and the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures 
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  9
-
8
-
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be 
Financed 
(1)   Goods, works, 
consultant’s services, 
Incremental Operating 
Costs, and Training  
 
2,000,000 
 
2,000,000 
 
80% 
(2)   Compensation 
 
Funding under  
 
Component 1.B of the 
 
Project 
 
500,000 
 
500,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
2,500,000
2,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for:   
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after April 5, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and 
(2), subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) below; and 
(b)  
expenditures under Category (2) in the table in paragraph A.2 of Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless the Compensation Funding 
Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the 
Recipient. 
2. 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2009. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1 and September 1: 
 
commencing September 1, 2016 to and including 
March 1, 2026 
 
1% 
commencing September 1, 2026 to and including 
March 1, 2046 
2% 
 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Co-financier” means the Government of Japan. 
3. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into by the 
Recipient and the Association, acting as the administrator of grant funds to be 
provided by the Co-financier to assist the Recipient in the financing of the 
Project. 
4. 
 “Compensation Funding” means eligible expenditures under Component 1.B of 
the Project, incurred by the Recipient in accordance with the Compensation 
Funding Manual, compensating eligible poultry owners for culled poultry.   
5. 
“Compensation Funding Manual” means the manual to be prepared and adopted 
by the Recipient, and satisfactory to the Association, setting forth eligibility 
criteria, terms and conditions, and procedures for compensating eligible poultry 
owners. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
7. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan included in the Project 
Operational Manual, describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be undertaken during the implementation of the Project, 
and satisfactory to the Association.   
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
9. 
“GHSPIC” means the Georgia Health and Social Projects Implementation Center 
established by the Decree of the President of Georgia, No. 215, dated May 28, 
2001, amended by the Decree of the President of Georgia No. 461, dated 
November 9, 2001, or any successor or successors thereto. 
10. 
“GSCAIG” means the Governmental Steering Commission on Avian Influenza 
in Georgia, established pursuant to resolution of the Government of Georgia   
No. 14, dated January 18, 2006, whose members include the Prime Minister 
(chair), State Minister on the Matters of Integration with European and Euro-
Atlantic Structures, Minister of Finance, Minister of MoLHSA, Minister of 
Page  12
-
11
-
Environment Protection and Natural Resources, Minister of MoA, and Adviser to 
the Minister of MoA, or successor or successors thereto. 
 
11. 
“HPAI” means Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza.  
 
12. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental 
expenses incurred by the Recipient with respect to Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the costs of staff salaries (excluding 
salaries of the Recipient’s civil service staff), communication, printing and 
publications, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank charges, local 
travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities, and supplies, all based 
on an annual budget to be approved by the GSCAIG, and satisfactory to the 
Association. 
13. 
“MoA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Recipient, or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
14. 
“MoLHSA” means the Ministry of Labor, Health, and Social Affairs of the 
Recipient, or any successor or successors thereto. 
15. 
“PCC” means The World Bank Financed Georgian Agricultural Development 
Projects Coordination Center, a legal entity under the Public Law of the 
Recipient, established by the Decree of the President of Georgia No. 149, dated 
April 23, 2001, or any successor or successors thereto. 
16. 
“PIT” means the Project implementation team to be established by the Recipient, 
comprised of representatives from the office of the Prime Minister, and Ministry 
of Finance, and the two Component Managers, or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 4, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual agreed upon by the Recipient on 
April 4, 2006, setting forth the  procedures and rules for Project implementation, 
including administrative, environmental, procurement, and financial management 
activities, and satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  13
-
12
-
20. 
“Training” means expenditures incurred in connection with the Project-related 
study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, 
including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers.
 
