Document of                  FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2525-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
THIRD BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
May 2, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Dank autbeolxation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978 (estimate)   Mid-1979 estimate
Currency Unit  o Peso - Col$                    Col$
U$$1           -  Col$ 39.32                    43.62
CQl$1          -  US$0.0254                     0.0229
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AID          Agency for International Development
CAR          Corporacion Autonoma de la Sabana de Bogota
y los Valles de Ubate y Chiquinquira
£AAB         Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota
EEEB         Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IDU          Instituto de Desarrollo Urbano
INAS         Instituto Nacional de Salud
INSFOPAL     Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
THIRD BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$30 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace at
7.9% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would improve sanitary conditions in Bogota
by providing sewerage connections for one million inhabi-
tants, by extending sewerage interceptors and by providing
storm water drainage to periodically flooded areas where
0.4 million people live. It would also increase the
utilization of installed water production capacity by
connecting households with about 1.1 million people to the
water supply system and by extending the primary distri-
bution network. In addition, the project would support
studies to determine the least cost methods of disposing
of Bogota's sewage and reducing flooding and pollution
in the Bogota River. About 43% of the estimated
beneficiaries of the project are expected to be among the
poorest 40% of the population. The project faces no
special risks and, even if delays and cost increases are
encountered, would yield a high return on the investments.
Estimated Cost:                                          Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Water supply                        3.00    2.63      5.63
Sewerage                            8.92    5.12    14.04
Drainage                            8.67    3.74    12.41
Equipment and meters                0.25    9.19      9.44
Sewerage treatment pilot plant    0.62    0.96        1.58
Feasibility studies                 1.33    1.33      2.66
Engineering and supervision         3.11    1.03      4.14
Base cost                    25.90   24.00    49.90
Physical contingencies              2.59    2.40      4.99
Price contingencies                 4.16    3.60      7.76
Total project cost           32.65   30.00    62.65
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                          Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Net internal cash generation/
betterment levies                 32.65      -    32,r5
Bank loan                             -      30.00  30.00
32.65    30.00  62.65
Estimated
Disbursements:                           US$ Million Equivalent
(Fiscal Year) 1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual                      9.4   10.0    7.5    3.1
Cumulative                  9.4   19.4   26.9   30.0
Rate of Return:      The aggregate internal rate of return for the project is
estimated to be 37%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2359b-CO, dated May 2, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
PROPOSED THIRD BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY,
SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota (EAAB) with the guarantee
of the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$30 million to help finance
a Third Bogota Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 7.9%
per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         An economic report on Colombia (2235-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in January 1979. An updating mission visited Colombia
during February 1979 and is preparing its report.  Its findings are sum-
marized below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.         During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made
up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy. The productive base of the economy has been widened appreciably,
and there has been substantial diversification of production in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. These improvements have been accompanied
by rapid growth of non-traditional exports and by the development of a
modern sector relying to a considerable extent on imported inputs. As a
result, the country has become less dependent on coffee as a source of
foreign exchange earnings, and fluctuations in domestic economic conditions
resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while still
considerable, have become more manageable. Although substantial progress
has been made during the past two decades, Colombia is still only partially
developed with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional
and economically poor base. Per capita income is low by developed world
standards, the maintenance of high employment is a persistent problem, and in
1975 an estimated 55.0% of the rural and 24.0% of the urban population had
incomes under the relative poverty level as defined by the Bank's.
4.         Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply in the past
two decades; from well over 3% in the 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s
1/   Unchanged from President's Report, Second (Cartagena) Urban
Development Project (Report No. P2472a-CO dated April 18, 1979).



- 2 -
and to an estimated 2.1% at present. 1/ This was in large part the result
of a rapid decline in the crude birth rate; one of the most pronounced declines
ever recorded in a Latin American country. Rising per capita income, rapid
rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for women and increased
effectiveness of family planning programs are included among the factors
responsible for the lower birth rate. Although rural/urban migration slowed
from the early 1960s on as progress was made in eliminating the widespread
violence in the countryside, approximately 64% of the current population lives
in urban centers and there are now 16 cities with populations exceeding
100,000 persons. Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative
to the country's resource base. Economic growth will have to average around
7%, however, especially in the directly productive and service sectors, in
order to increase employment at a pace sufficient to keep up with growth of
the labor force.
5.        Available information--while scanty--suggests that some improvement
has occurred in income distribution and welfare of the lowest income groups
in Colombia since the 1950s. These gains were probably the consequence of
several factors, including migration of surplus labor from rural to urban
areas, rapid growth of employment in high productivity jobs in industry and
the services and reduced population growth. Policy efforts, particularly
since 1967, have been directed increasingly toward improving the welfare of
the poorest 50% of the population. These efforts have emphasized both
employment generation and greater public investment in health, education,
nutrition and urban development. The Bank has strongly supported these
efforts. Continued emphasis on growth of the productive sectors of the
economy, on industrial decentralization and on programs to encourage small-
scale industry and agriculture should provide increased employment oppor-
tunities and higher real wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in both
rural and urban areas. Further improvement in the public services provided
to the poor should reinforce these trends and raise the level of welfare of
this segment of the population.
6.        The Colombian authorities introduced a dramatic change in develop-
ment strategy in 1967, shifting emphasis from the then existing protectionist
policy of import substitution to measures designed to expand and diversify
exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding exports, thereby
alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making possible a substantially
higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP rose by an average
6.5% annually between 1967-1969 and 1974, well above the historical average.
Merchandise exports in current prices expanded nearly threefold during this
period, and most significantly, non-traditional exports became an increasingly
important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part compensating for slow
growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974, non-coffee exports comprised
56% of total merchandise exports, up from about 30% in 1967.
1/   Estimated 1978 growth rate.  This rate differs from that given as the
most recent estimate in the Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex I) which
is an average for early 1970s.



7.        Despite the growth of output and the diversification of exports,
the country faced some potentially serious problems at the time the new
administration took office in 1974. Weakening balance of payments in part
related to the slowdown of growth in the industrial countries, loss of
self-sufficiency in petroleum production, deterioration of the public
finances, accelerating inflation, and declining investment threatened to
reduce growth of output and employment. As a consequence of these develop-
ments, the Government introduced an economic stabilization program which
combined basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary, and trade systems with
measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic growth.
8.        In an effort to strengthen the public finances, the Government
undertook a comprehensive tax reform designed to improve the progressivity
and elasticity of the tax system. Some of the distortions which had deve-
loped in the financial system caused by forced investment requirements
placed on financial institutions and by differential tax treatment of
financial instruments were eliminated. Interest rates were raised in an
effort to increase private savings and improve resource allocation. In
order to increase the efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on
market forces, price controls on a number of industrial and agricultural
products were removed, thereby providing greater stimulus for increasing
production. Modifications in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining
self-sufficiency in the production of crude petroleum by improving incen-
tives for exploration and exploitation were introduced. Concurrently, the
Government initiated policies designed to reduce the subsidy on local
consumption of petroleum products, which eventually led to a 220% increase
in gasoline prices by 1978. Tariff levels and non-tariff barriers to trade
were reduced significantly in order to increase competition and the effi-
ciency of domestic firms. While these reforms were successful in improving
the public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, they also served to
reduce economic growth and the slowdown of domestic economic activity which
began in 1974 continued through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the past three years, the Colombian economy has been
dominated by developments in the external sector. As the result of a
serious frost in late 1975 affecting Brazil's major coffee producing area,
coffee exports from that country declined sharply triggering a fourfold
increase in the world price of coffee by mid-1977. This caused Colombia's
export earnings from coffee to increase to nearly US$1.8 billion in 1977
from US$764 million in 1975, and produced an unprecedented rise in incomes
and demand in the country's rural areas. Lagging supply of consumer goods,
particularly basic foodstuffs--the production of which was adversely affected
by drought conditions in most of the country's interior--failed to keep pace
with rising demand and inflation accelerated from 24% in 1975 to 44% in the
twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia has been moderate
relative to that experienced by other countries in the region, seldom
exceeding an annual rate of 20%. The acceleration of inflation which took
place during the period, therefore, was unprecedented in recent history, and
efforts to lower the rate of inflation have dictated economic policy since
that time.



-4-
10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range
of fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the
explosive increase in prices. Beginning in late 1976 reserve requirements
were raised and rediscounting and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank were discouraged. The authorities temporarily suspended their nol7i-c of
periodically adjusting the exchange rate and prices of petroleum products.
In January 1977, a 100% marginal reserve requirement was placed on increases
in commercial bank deposits exceeding the December 31, 1976 level. To delay
the impact of rising foreign exchange receipts on the monetary base, exporters
were required to accept 90-day US dollar denominated certificates of exchange
in lieu of cash payment for their exports. In order to sterilize a portion of
the increase in foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports, the Coffee
Federation agreed to invest a large portion of its receipts in Central Bank
bonds, the proceeds of which were frozen in a special account. To increase
supplies in the domestic market, a number of measures were taken to liberalize
imports. Food imports by the state marketing agency, IDEMA, were increased
sharply. In addition, restrictive fiscal measures were introduced to curb
growth of aggregate demand and in 1977 the Treasury registered an overall
budgetary surplus for the first time in recent years.
I1.       As a consequence of these measures and a favorable second semester
harvest, inflation declined sharply beginning in July 1977. By the end of
the year, the annual rate of inflation had fallen to 29%. With inflation
subsiding, periodic exchange rate adjustments and gasoline price increases
were reintroduced. With few other exceptions, however, the stabilization
policies were continued in effect throughout 1978 and by year end inflation
had subsided to an annual rate of 17.8%.
12.       Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets, slow growth in
agricultural production, capacity constraints in the industrial sector and
a decline in real investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately
in 1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975, to 4.6%
and 4.8% respectively in the subsequent two years. The higher growth was
a direct result of the expansion of domestic demand brought about by the
rise in incomes of coffee producers. Output in the trade and personal
services sectors of the economy (including transport and communications)
responded strongly to the rising demand, while agricultural output, because
of the drought, rose by only 2.2% p.a. on average for the 1976-77 period.
Industrial sector output rose by only 5.4% p.a. during this period, despite
the strong growth in domestic demand. Because growth occurred in the rela-
tively labor intensive sectors of the economy -- personal services, trade,
transport and communications and manufacturing -- the urban unemployment
rate had declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977, from an average 12%
during the early 1970s. In addition, there is evidence of labor shortages
and rising real wage rates in rural areas during this period, and it is
believed that rural unemployment also declined.
13.       Preliminary estimates for 1978 show a strong increase in real
GDP resulting primarily from continued stimulus to aggregate demand from
high coffee receipts and from an expansion of investment. In addition,
favorable weather conditions permitted a sharp recovery in agricultural



output. Real GDP growth is estimated at 8% for the year, with agricultural
production estimated to have grown by as much as 9% over the low level of
1977.  While coffee prices fell considerably in 1978 from their 1977 levels,
this decline was more than offset by expanding export volume as Colombia
undertook a more aggressive coffee export policy. Consequently, receipts from
coffee exports rose to nearly US$2.1 billion for the year. The accompanying
rise in domestic demand and a modest recovery in export markets caused manu-
facturing and transport and communications to grow by 8.5% each and trade
(including commerce) by 9.0%. Construction activity, which had continued at
a low level during the past several years, recovered strongly in 1978, partially
as a result of an increase in speculative demand arising from an inflow of
funds from contraband activities. Only the mining sector, in which output
fell by 2.3% as a result of declining oil production, failed to show signifi-
cant growth in 1978. Open unemployment in urban areas is estimated to have
fallen to 7.6% by June 1978.
14.       Colombia's balance of payments was also highly favorable in 1978,
continuing the trend of the previous three years. Largely as a result of
the increase in coffee exports, although non-coffee exports rose modestly
(7.0%) in real terms also, Colombia's net official international reserves
rose by US$664 million, reaching US$2,493 million by the end of the year,
equivalent to about nine months imports of goods and non-factor services.
This increase in reserves occurred despite a nominal 25% increase in import
payments, reflecting the rise in domestic demand, continued overvaluation
of the exchange rate and liberal import policies. There were few significant
modifications in trade and exchange rate policies in 1978. The slow rate
of peso devaluation was continued during the first three quarters of the
year, but accelerated in the fourth quarter when the pace of reserve accumu-
lation began to slow. In general, trade and exchange rate policies were
directed towards reducing the impact on the monetary base of reserve accumula-
tion by delaying the monetization of export receipts and advancing import
payments. These measures complemented monetary policies which were aimed at
restraining growth of the money supply.
15.       Colombia's public finances generated a large surplus in 1978
thereby permitting the Government to relax somewhat the policy of fiscal
restraint which formed part of its anti-inflationary program during the
previous two years. Current savings of the public sector rose to an
estimated 6.0% of GDP, compared with 5.5% of GDP in 1977, and covered about
90% of public sector investment. Both the Central Government 1/ and the
consolidated decentralized agencies increased their savings in 1978,
the former by 29% and the latter by 153%. The strong increase in savings
of the decentralized agencies, which rose to 1.4% of GDP from 0.7% in 1977,
was the result of increased charges for the services they provide and of
restraint on current expenditures. Large increases in customs duties and
in sales taxes brought about by the growth in domestic demand were the main
factors responsible for the increase in savings of the Central Government.
As a consequence of this improved financial situation, public sector fixed
1/   Comprised of the National Government, the National Highway Fund and the
Social Security Agencies.



- 6 -
investment rose during the year, reaching 6.9% of GDP compared with 6.3% of GDP
on average for the 1975-77 period. Some of the heaviest investment took place
in the development of hydropower and in the petroleum sector, for both explora-
tion and development.
16.       Despite continuation of the stabilization programs largely unchanged
from last year, the rate of inflation accelerated sharply in January 1979,
followed by a more moderate increase in February. On an annual basis, infla-
tion had reached 21.2% by the end of the latter month. At the same time, the
international price of coffee fell sharply, prompting the Government to take
measures to avoid a large financial deficit for the Coffee Federation. In the
past, such deficits were financed in part through recourse to the Central Bank.
The Federation, an autonomous entity which manages the domestic and external
marketing of Colombia's coffee, purchases coffee from producers at a fixed
price in pesos and then sells it on the world market. Since the Federation
stands ready to purchase all coffee offered at the fixed price, it also bears
the financial burden of stock accumulation in periods of declining world prices.
After paying taxes and marketing costs equivalent to nearly 25% of the inter-
national price, the Federation could not sustain the high domestic purchase
price given the lower world coffee price without incurring huge losses. To
avoid this, the domestic purchase price of coffee was lowered by 12% and
the exchange certificate system was abolished for coffee exports. This latter
measure will result in the conversion to cash over the next several months of
around Col$10 billion in outstanding exchange certificates. To offset the
monetary impact of this measure, reserve requirements on term deposits of
commercial banks and financial corporations are to be increased gradually over
the next few months, to 25% from 20% at present, and prior import deposit
requirements have been raised substantially, to 95% from 40% and 60% previously.
In addition, the interest rate on dollar denominated certificates issued by
the Central Bank was raised to 14% from 7% in an attempt to absorb some of the
funds flowing from the exchange certificates. In a separate measure, retail
gasoline prices were increased in mid-March and Sunday sales of gasoline were
outlawed. Gasoline prices have been raised by 67% since September 1978.
Development Strategy and Prospects
17.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefits of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past four years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced. Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated. These programs have been complemented by policies to encourage the
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry
away from the three largest cities. This latter policy, together with credit
programs aimed at increasing output and employment in agriculture, have been
designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce rural/urban migration. Public



- 7 -
sector infrastructure investments have been concentrated on improvement and
extension of highway and communications systems. Special priority has been
given to the development of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's
growing dependence on imported oil.
18.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is re-
flected in the increased proportion of total National Government expenditure on
education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from 33% in 1974
to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the coffee boom and the
need to concentrate economic policy on short-term management problems have
limited expansion of public and private investment and required temporary
suspension of some of the measures designed to free the price system and
stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
19.       The Government, which took office in August 1978, intends to continue
with essentially the same development strategy as the previous administration.
Under this strategy, economic growth is to be promoted through expansion of
non-coffee exports and through measures to stimulate investment and increase
the efficiency of resource allocation. This Government proposes to give
greater emphasis to expansion of economic and social infrastructure, however,
with particular stress on improving transport and communications networks.
Improvement in transport and communications infrastructure is expected to
encourage increased inter-regional trade which, together with alleviation of
the foreign exchange constraint, should further stimulate investment and
economic growth. Measures to encourage industrial decentralization have been
introduced to complement the actions taken to unify regional markets.
20.       Rapid expansion of domestic energy resources is to be given high
priority with the view to regaining self-sufficiency in energy as early as
possible. Even under the most optimistic assumptions regarding development
of such resources, however, Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy
imports until the mid-1980s when exports of coal and natural gas are expected
to reduce the country's net energy deficit. Small scale agriculture and
industry will continue to receive strong support through credit, and low
income rural areas are to be helped through rural electrification, health
and education programs and through expansion of feeder road projects.
Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI) and
nutrition projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive continued
high priority. Public investment programs in education, health, water and
sewerage and urban development (especially those directed at alleviating
urban poverty) are to be continued as well.
21.       Given the country's strong resource base and its high level of
international reserves, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP
growth averaging about 7% during the 1979-83 period. Maintenance of this
level of growth will require rapid expansion of non-coffee exports and high
savings and investment rates. Public sector investment is expected to expand
faster than GDP during this period because of the large proposed programs
for infrastructure, social services and energy development. Financial require-
ments for this higher level of investment will be substantial and public
sector savings will have to be sustained at the current high levels. Given
the expected decline in coffee revenue, improvements will be required in the
administration and collection of non-coffee taxes, and additional tax measures



- 8 -
may be required. Of equal importance is the continued upward adjustment in
prices charged for the goods and services provided by the public decentralized
agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports, especially of manufactured goods,
will no doubt be strongly influenced by the rates of economic growth of
Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate domestic incentives w|s
also play an important role. In this regard, it is expected that Colombia will
follow an exchange rate policy designed to maintain the competitiveness of
Colombian exports and that additional export promotion measures will be
adopted to encourage both product and market diversification.
22.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement incentives given
to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs in the agricultural
sector, including integrated rural development, expansion of farm credit, im-
proved research and extension services, and upgraded marketing facilities, are
already in place and will need to be strengthened. Further development of
the country's capital markets is expected to increase private savings and im-
prove the allocation of financial resources, thereby providing the basis for
more rapid growth of industry.  Ongoing and future infrastructure investments
by the public sector should facilitate improvements in economic efficiency and
lead to more rapid growth of output and employment in both industry and
agriculture.
23.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the early 1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. To avoid the con-
straint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would entail, high
priority is being given to the development of additional energy sources. The
strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's dependence on petro-
leum as an energy source by developing substitutes such as hydropower, coal
and natural gas.  Major projects are being executed and others prepared to
expand hydroelectric power generation and incentives are being given to pri-
vate foreign companies for accelerated exploration and development of the
country's petroleum, coal and natural gas potential. Exports of coal and
natural gas are expected to offset a large portion of the petroleum imports
projected for the mid to late 1980s. Conservation of existing resources
resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the growth in energy
demand. While the total investment cost of future energy development is still
being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment
could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices over the next decade.
Even under the most optimistic assumption regarding foreign private investment,
suppliers' credits and domestic resource mobilization, external long-term
financing of about US$4.0 billion would be required in this sector alone
during this period. Any significant delay in implementing the country's
energy development program would most likely have serious adverse repercus-
sions on future economic growth.
24.       Because of the expected continued decline in world coffee prices,
accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future investment
projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected to be
in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the



- 9 -
balance of payments by the late 1980s. Colombia is expected, therefore, to
continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come. Its
future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement domestic
savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program and to
provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required imports
of capital and intermediate goods. Assuming that the Colombian authorities
permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months'
imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements
are projected at US$6.3 billion between 1979 and 1983, or an annual average
of about US$1,260 million. About half of Colombia's capital inflow during
this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources, with commercial financial credits becoming increasingly important.
25.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$4.2 billion at the end of 1978, of which US$2.7 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 29% and is expected to rise to 31% by 1983, before declining to 29%
again by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past
two years as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase
from 10.3% in 1978 to about 14.7% in 1983. Balance of payments prospects
beyond 1980 will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-
based export oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the
expected continuation of sound economic and financial management and timely
execution of the country's energy program, it should be possible to prevent
the external sector from again becoming a constraint on economic growth and
to maintain Colombia's creditworthiness for the required external borrowing.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
26.       The proposed loan, the 79th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,066.7 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,602.6 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises and now holds
US$18.1 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans the IDA
credit as of January 31, 1979 and IFC investments as of February 28, 1979.
The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 29 ongoing projects.
27.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified and
has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricul-
tural loans have been made since then, nine of the twelve loans for industry,
all three loans in the education sector, one loan for a nutrition project and
one loan for an urban development project and including the proposed project,
all eight loans for water supply and sewerage. This compares with only ten
loans since FY68 in the power and transport sectors.



- 10 -
28.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY78, consisted of loans for nutrition
improvement, water and sewerage, urban development, power generation and
interconnection, development finance companies and development of an export
processing zone, totalling US$354.6 million equivalent. In addition to the
proposed project, the FY79 program includes the already approved aviation
development, Mesitas hydroelectric and Cartagena urban projects and proposed
loans for nickel mining, power and agricultural credit for land reform
beneficiaries. Work is also under way in medium-city water supply systems,
vocational training, transportation, further mining development, power,
including rural electrification, land settlement, further agricultural credit
and small scale industry for possible consideration by the Executive Directors
during the next two years.
29.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist the development of coal mines and petroleum, which hold
potential in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in
diversifying exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help
mobilize additional external financing as some of the projects would require
co-financing. Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
assist the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to
these objectives would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastruc-
ture. In this context, we are assisting the Government in preparing a rural
and feeder roads project to integrate the more backward areas of the country
into the modern economy. Other loans under preparation for highways, ports
and railroads are aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-
traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of
its economy relies for expansion. Finally, a relatively large number of loans
are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest
50% of the Colombian population. The proposed urban development and slum
improvement, rural electrification, land settlement, credit for land reform
beneficiaries and water supply and sewerage projects are principally designed
to improve the standard of living of the poor.
30.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to approxi-
mately 50% for the 1975-77 period. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given
increased emphasis to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted
projects in low cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform,
university education, water supply, and land erosion control; in the future
IDB proposes to assist Colombia in its plans to develop sources of domestic
energy and to expand the activity of the productive sectors to help generate
increased employment. AID has supported programs in education, urban develop-
ment and small farm development. More recently, it has moved to small project
loans aimed chiefly at improving the distribution of income. It expects to
phase out its aid program in Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6
million nutrition loan.



- 11 -
PART III: THE SECTOR, THE CITY AND THE INSTITUTION
Urban Growth
31.       During the past several decades, Colombia experienced one of the
highest rates of growth in Latin America. The percentage of population living
in urban areas is estimated to have doubled in that period and now is close to
70%. Urban population grew at an average annual rate of 6% during the 1951-64
period or nearly twice as fast as the growth of total population. Although the
rate of growth of urban areas has declined to 4.5%, it remains significantly
above the 2.8% population growth rate for the entire country.
32.       Unlike other countries of comparable size and development, Colombia
has several large urban centers. Twenty-two cities have more than 100,000
inhabitants, of which eight have more than 300,000. The four largest, Bogota
with 3.8 million, Medellin with 1.3 million, Cali 1.1 million and Barranquilla
800,000 account for nearly 30% of the country's population.
Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities, Institutions and Past Investments
33.       Although Colombia compares favorably with many other Latin American
countries as regards water supply and sewerage facilities, one-fourth of its
urban population does not have direct access to public water supply and about
60% lack sewerage facilities. According to a recent Bank study, I/ service
levels in rural areas are far lower; in 1974, 20% of rural families had piped
water and only 5% had sewerage facilities. Over the past five years, however,
there has been a sharp increase in public services in rural areas and un-
published Government estimates suggest that in villages water supply cover-
age now reaches 40% of the population.
34.       Water supply and sewerage services are provided by several types of
institutions. Four municipalities own independent companies which construct,
operate and maintain water supply and sewerage facilities. The Instituto
Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) supervises and finances the con-
struction and operation of water supply and sewerage systems by regional and
municipal entities in some 750 towns with populations of 2,500 or more. The
Instituto Nacional de Salud (INAS) constructs and operates water supply
systems for communities of up to 2,500 inhabitants. Also, in some depart-
ments, the regional health authorities, who are responsible for sanitation
(principally the building of latrines), construct water systems under the
supervision of INAS. Both INAS and INSFOPAL are autonomous public entities
responsible to the Ministry of Health which together with the National Planning
Department, are responsible for overall sector planning.
1/   Who Benefits from Government Expenditure?  A Case Study of Colombia
by Marcelo Selowsky - IBRD (RPO-296).



- 12 -
35.       Investment outlays for water supply and sewerage have risen consider-
ably, increasing from US$21.6 million equivalent in 1965 to US$55.8 million
equivalent in 1975 and are expected to reach nearly US$100 million by 1980. In
terms of total public sector investment, they have averaged about 5.5% during
the past three years. In the 1965-75 period, water supply and sewerage invesc-
ments amounted to US$393 million, of which 72% was expended by the municipal
enterprises, 20% by INSFOPAL and 8% by INAS. Financing for these investments
was obtained from the national budget (35%), from external sources (20%) and
from internal generation and domestic credits (45%).
Government Approach
36.       The Government aims to provide piped water to 90% of the urban and
80% of the rural non-dispersed population and sewerage services to 80% and 60%,
respectively, by 1990. Since expansion of public services at affordable costs
for low income families is also an important Government objective, all urban
water supply and sewerage authorities have applied progressive tariff scales;
in rural areas, water charges are based on the community's ability to pay.
Another Government aim is to achieve higher levels of sector self-financing.
The Government recognizes that achievement of sector objectives have been
delayed principally because water and sewerage entities have not generated
sufficient financial resources of their own.
Bank Role in the Sector
37.       Bank involvement in water supply and sewerage has been extensive
and has supported the Government objectives referred to in the previous para-
graph. Noteworthy is the Bank's contribution to water and sewerage programs
that assist the poor, particularly through components in integrated projects
targeted at the poor, and to the building and financial strengthening of
institutions within the sector. The proposed loan would be the eighth for
water supply and the fifth for sewerage. All told, Bank assistance for water
supply and sewerage has covered all but one of the major cities, nearly all
of the medium-sized urban areas and rural areas in 14 departments. Including
the proposed loan, total Bank lending for water supply and sewerage which
commenced only in 1968 would amount to US$211.3 million or 10% of total Bank
lending thus far to Colombia.
Bogota and its Water Supply and Sewerage Services
38.       Besides serving as capital, Bogota is the financial, commercial and
cultural center of Colombia. Also, in recent years, it has displaced Medellin
as the principal industrial city. Its population has been growing at 5.8% per
annum since 1970, reaching 3.8 million in 1978. In 1975, Bogota accounted for
14% of Colombia's population, 28% of industrial production and 29% of industrial
employment and its relative importance is estimated to have increased since then.
In spite of the Government's programs to encourage the development of secondary
cities and to divert some of the increase in population and resources away from
the four major cities (Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla), it is expected
that Bogota will continue to grow rapidly and have more than 7 million inhabi-
tants by 1990.



- 13 -
39.       The quantity of the treated water in Bogota is sufficient to meet its
needs. Coverage is also fairly high -- 86% of the population and 64% of the
poor have water connections -- but lower than in other large Colombian cities.
(In Cali, for example, 96% of households are already connected). About 66% of
the water is consumed in homes, 27% by commercial and industrial users and 7%
by Government. Households without connections -- amounting to 14% of the
total -- are nearly all below the poverty line and are generally served by
standpipes or from surface or groundwater sources. One of the objectives of
the proposed project is to increase the number of water connections to these
households. Reflecting the rapidly growing number of new connections to low
income families, who use relatively small amounts of water, average water
consumption in Bogota has fallen in recent years. Water is metered and paid
for by users at progressive tariff rates which depend upon property values
and individual consumption levels. The quality of water supplied in Bogota
meets international public health standards.
40.       About 80% of all of Bogota's households and 50% of those classified
as urban poor are served by direct connections to EAAB's sewerage system. The
remainder are connected to septic tanks or to private community provisional
drains which discharge into ditches or small streams. Most of the sewage is
discharged into the Bogota River, whose contamination and silting have become
major health and flood hazards. The proposed project would deal with this
problem in a number of ways: (a) through a study to determine the most feasible
way to dispose of Bogota's sewage; (b) by testing a pilot sewage disposal plant
in conjunction with the above study; and (c) by planning for the long run
rectification of the Bogota River.
The Institution
41.       EAAB, which is an autonomous tax exempt public enterprise owned by
the Municipality of the Special District of Bogota, is responsible for
planning, constructing and operating all water supply, sewerage and drainage
facilities. The Mayor of Bogota appoints the General Manager and also serves
as Chairman of the seven-member Board of Directors. Although EAAB is
autonomous and its Board charged with setting policy and tariffs, proposed
major works must be approved by the Municipal Planning Board and the Municipal
Government, and proposed tariff ceilings must be approved by the National
Tariff Board. In practice, however, these external bodies have endorsed
virtually all proposals of EAAB. Based on the highly regarded quality of
EAAB's work and the fact that the Mayor serves as Chairman of the Board, it
is expected that EAAB will, in future, continue to set all of its own
policies and investment programs.
42.       EAAB has developed into a mature and well-run company with a high
quality professional staff. In spite of its rapid expansion, EAAB has been
able to control the growth of its staff which at present totals about 2,700.
It currently has one employee for every 1,200 persons served which is a
highly favorable ratio compared with other Latin American water utilities.
In financial terms, it is projected that in addition to meeting its operating
costs and debt service, EAAB would be able to generate internally more than
one-half of its capital expenditures over the next few years. This strength
has encouraged the entity to seek financing for the first time on the inter-
national capital markets to finance the cost overruns for the Chingaza plant.



- 14 -
It is expected that EAAB's reliance upon the Bank for its external financing
will gradually decrease. The project would continue strengthening EAAB;
technical assistance would be provided to develop more effective information
and financial forecasting systems.
43.       EAAB has professional expertise in all aspects of water treatment
and distribution as well as sewerage and storm drainage. However, it lacks
competence in the area of sewerage treatment and pollution control. The
proposed project would be a first effort at building such competence (para-
graph 36). It is expected that future Bank collaboration with the institution
would concentrate on further development in this area.
Performance Under Previous Loans
44.       EAAB has been responsible for executing two Bank-assisted projects
(Loans 536-CO in 1968 and 741-CO in 1971) which dealt principally with water
treatment and transmission mains. The projects were aimed at increasing water
production to avoid the recurring water shortages and rationing which were
common at that time in Bogota, and at strengthening EAAB. By and large
the projects have achieved, or are achieving, their objectives. Nevertheless,
construction delays occurred in both projects and coupled with unanticipated
rates of inflation resulted in large cost overruns. The delays were largely
the result of the poor performance and withdrawal of contractors. An expanded
first project was completed successfully in 1975. With the second project,
due to be completed three years behind schedule at the end of 1980, EAAB
should be able to meet water demand until about 1990.
45.       The Project Performance Audit Report for the First Bogota Water
Supply Project (dated March 30, 1978, SRCM-78-260) highlighted the optimistic
water consumption projections which served as the basis for the two projects.
Water use did not reach anticipated levels because: (a) the rate of growth of
Bogota's population declined during the 1970's; (b) EAAB's cash generation fell
short of targets and construction of some distribution networks were postponed;
and (c) average water use levels fell as the poor became a higher percentage
of the population served. For the proposed project, more refined estimates of
current population, growth trends and per-capita consumption levels were used
as a basis for the demand projections. The report went on to question the
Bank's emphasis on water production with less involvement in the ultimate
distribution of water. The proposed project would correct the imbalance by
supporting water supply distribution and thus result in increased capacity
utilization of EAAB's water and a higher rate of coverage among the population
at large and the poor in particular.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
46.       The project was prepared by EAAB's technical staff with the assistance
of local consultants. It comprises EAAB's 1979-82 investment program. The
project was appraised by a Bank mission in September/October 1978. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. in April of 1979, with a Colombian delegation led
by the Ambassador to the United States, Mr. Virgilio Barco.



- 15 -
47.       The project aims at improving health and living conditions in Bogota
by (a) providing water supply, sewerage and drainage facilities to its residents;
and (b) by determining long-term solutions for the disposal of the city's
sewage and for the rectification of the polluted and silted Bogota River. A
significant portion of the investments under the project are aimed at increasing
service coverage in the poorest barrios (neighborhoods), where the impact on
health conditions would be greatest. By connecting additional households with
about 1.1 million inhabitants, the project would make use of the excess
capacity that will result with the commissioning in late 1980 of the Chingaza
Treatment Plant financed under the Second Bogota Water Supply Project (Loan
741-CO). Also, the project would contribute to strengthening EAAB further
with the objective of eventually weaning the institution from Bank support.
However, before EAAB can dispense completely with Bank assistance, it will still
require further Bank support to help develop sufficient expertise in the complex
matter of sewage disposal and long-term strengthening of its financial position.
Summary Description of the Prolect
48.       The specific project components are as follows:
(a) Water Supply:
(i) about 27 km of primary distribution mains to supply
new areas of urban development; and
(ii) about 80 km of distribution networks to serve 24 low-income
barrios near the city perimeter.
(b) Sewerage:
(i) about 17 km of interceptors to collect sewage that is
currently discharged into four surface canals; and
(ii) sewerage networks in 48 low-income barrios, plus combined
networks in another seven barrios.
(c) Storm Water Drainage:
(i) about 10 km of drainage canals on three waterways;
(ii) three regulating reservoirs to hold storm water; and
(iii) storm water drainage networks in 18 low-income barrios.
(d) Equipment:
(i) procurement and installation of 215,000 water meters,
equipment for leak detection, construction and maintenance
equipment and vehicles.
(e) Construction of a pilot sewage treatment plan;



- 16 -
(f) Project Engineering:
(i) engineering services, including consultant services,
for detailed design and construction supervision.
(g) Feasibility Studies:
(i) feasibility studies for the disposal of the city's
sewage and for the design of a first stage sewerage
treatment plant; and
(ii) feasibility studies and designs for the first phase of
a master plan for the rectification of the Bogota River.
With the exception of the feasibility study for the Bogota River regulation,
all components will be carried out by EAAB. The Corporacion Autonoma de la
Sabana de Bogota y los Valles de Ubate y Chiquinquira (CAR) will carry out
the Bogota River study according to arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
to be agreed upon by CAR, EAAB.and the Empresa de Energia Electrica de
Bogota. A condition of disbursement for the study would be that such arrange-
ments have been made (Section 3.01(c) and paragraph 4 of Schedule I of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Costs and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$62.7 million
equivalent of which US$30 million equivalent (48%) correspond to the foreign
exchange costs. The cost estimates are based on recent bids for similar works
and equipment and include physical contingencies of 10%. Price contingencies
amount to 15.5% of base costs and are based on estimates of yearly domestic
and international price increases.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent would finance the
estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. EAAB would finance from
internal generation and betterment levies the remaining US$32.7 million equiv-
alent in local costs as well as interest during construction of an estimated
US$4 million equivalent. A breakdown of project costs and financing is
presented in the Project and Loan Summary.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       All contracts will be awarded under international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for civil works
contracts under the equivalent of US$300,000 and materials and equipment
contracts under the equivalent of US$100,000. These smaller contracts will
be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and will not exceed in total the equivalent of US$2 million. Suppliers
of goods manufactured in Colombia would receive a margin of preference of
15% or the import duties, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts are
expected to be won by local contractors and most equipment supply contracts
by foreign suppliers. In order not to delay the benefits of the water and
sewerage network extension program, advance contracting of up to 10% of the



- 17 -
total ciVil works costs would be financed under the loan. Consulting
services for the feasibility studies and the engineering work would be let
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that
contracts for consulting services expected to amount to 1,372 man-months will
be awarded to local firms which, in turn, will sub-contract with foreign firms
for certain specialized works.
52.       Disbursements would be made for 100% of the costs of imported
material and equipment, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
goods procured under ICB, 37% of civil works and of the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured goods not procured under ICB and 50% of the total
cost of consulting services. In order for network extension activities to
proceed without delay, retroactive financing for expenditures made after
January 1, 1979 for this purpose of up to US$900,000 equivalent (3% of the
loan amount) would be provided under the loan (Schedule I, Paragraph 4 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1983.
Finances
53.       Between 1971 and 1975, EAAB's financial position deteriorated as
a result of inadequate tariff adjustments to compensate for increasing
operating costs. The operating ratio consequently increased from 0.61 in
1971 to 0.75 in 1975 and the rate of return on revalued net fixed assets
declined from 11.8% to 4% in the same period. Furthermore, the debt service
ratio fell from 7.2 to 1.7. The financial constraint resulting from this
situation forced EAAB to defer much needed network extensions.
54.       In June 1976, after a careful analysis of revenue requirements,
EAAB began a 24-month program of tariff restructuring and increases which
improved revenue per unit by 122% compared to 72% rise in unit costs. As a
result, the debt service ratio rose to 4.2 and the rate of return to 9.1% in
1977 and the institution was able to finance 37% of its capital expenditures
from internal cash generation. The rate of improvement slowed somewhat in
1978 as tariff adjustments were slowed down for political reasons, a meter
readers' strike resulted in the loss of some revenues and operating expenses
continued to increase. Though the rate of return fell to 5.9%, this was
adequate considering that, in addition to operating expenses, including debt
service, EAAB was able to meet about 50% of its capital expenditures from
internal cash generation.
55.       EAAB has four sources of revenue.  About 80% of revenues result
from regular water and sewerage charges and fees for household and network
connections. The remaining 20% come from betterment levies (valorization)
and contributions in either cash or installed networks from consumers or
developers.
56.       The present tariff structure is simple, well designed and progress-
ive. For water, residential consumers pay from Col$2.14/m3 (US$0.054) to
Col$5.36/m3 (US$0.134) depending on their assessed property value and amount
of water consumption. Water consumed beyond 60 m3/month is billed at
Col$8.58/m3 (US$0.215) to all residential consumers. Small industrial and
commercial consumers are billed at rates 15% to 30% higher than their
respective residential category; large industrial concerns are charged
Col$7.07/m3 (US$0.177). Sewerage tariffs are 30% of the water bill for all



- 18 -
consumers with sewerage connections. The above structure provides for sub-
stantial cross-subsidies--for example, the two lowest residential categories
account for 41% of EAAB's connections, use almost 28% of the water sold and
pay only 17% of monthly water and sewerage charges. Four of the seven resi-
dential categories are subsidized by the remaining consumer categories.
Combined water and sewerage tariffs for the lowest income groups are considered
affordable and estimated to amount to not more than 3% of family income. At
the same time, average combined tariff levels are in line with the long run
marginal costs of providing water and sewerage.
57.       Valorization charges in Bogota designed to recover the capital costs
of certain public works projects are levied according to the estimated increase
in property value resulting from the project. They are collected on public
works projects including roads, sewerage and drainage but not on water works
for which consumers pay a fixed percentage in connection fees. Valorization
for all public works are billed and collected by a city authority, the
Instituto de Desarrollo Urbano (IDU). All but a 20% fee of collections for
sewerage and drainage projects are transferred to EAAB. However, the transfer
of these funds has not always been fully carried out and, often, is done with
considerable delay. Assurances have been received, therefore, that EAAB will
enter arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with IDU to ensure sufficient
collection and transfer of betterment levies on the sewerage and drainage works
under the project (Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement). Valorization charges
amount to less than 5% of EAAB's revenue, but could increase in importance if
collected and transferred adequately.
58.       EAAB has already instituted a program of 1% monthly tariff increases
through 1982 and is in the process of reclassifying consumers to higher tariff
categories that will result in an increase in revenues of 9% in 1979. With a
further increase to 1.5% monthly in 1980, EAAB's financial performance is
expected to remain satisfactory. Although, it would not permit EAAB to
achieve the 10% rate of return in 1979 and 1980 stipulated under Loan 741-CO,
it would allow sufficient internal cash generation after debt to meet more
than 50% of capital expenditures in those years. In line with the foregoing,
the minimum rates of return on revalued net assets to be achieved by EAAB
would be reduced to 7% in 1979 and 1980, 5% in 1981 and 1982 and 6% in subse-
quent years (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       During the period 1979-82, EAAB's total financing requirements are
estimated at Col$13.7 billion (US$260 million) of which about three-quarters
would be for capital expenditures. EAAB is expected to contract on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, foreign exchange loans of US$20 million
to cover expected cash shortfalls in 1979 and 1980 (Section 3.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Subsequently, all requirements are projected to be
met from internal cash generation and the Bank loan.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
60.       The proposed project would improve living and health conditions
in Bogota and would provide for effective long-run planning of sewage disposal
and maintenance of a clean river environment. About 1.1 million people
would benefit directly from the water supply component, one million from the



- 19 -
sewerage and 400,000 from storm water drainage. By reducing flooding in some
areas, the storm water drainage component would furthermore make more land
available for urbanization. About 43% of project beneficiaries are expected
to be below the poverty line.
61.       The project works are least cost alternatives.  The internal rate
of return (IRR) for water supply and sewerage networks accounting for 37% of
project costs is estimated at 47%. The IRR for the drainage and sewage inter-
ceptor components which account for 32% of total project cost is estimated
at 21%. The return of the water supply and sewerage investments are high
because the project will use existing water production capacity and sewage
interceptors. Incremental revenues for water and sewerage were taken as a
measure of minimum benefits, while increases in land values were used to
reflect the benefits of the drainage and sewage interceptor components.
The resulting aggregate IRR for 69% of project costs is estimated to be 37%.
IRR's were not calculated for the studies, the maintenance equipment and two
parts of the drainage component, because their benefits are not easily
quantifiable and/or cannot be easily segregated from EAAB's overall opera-
tions. As mentioned earlier, the studies are important for determining
least cost alternatives, while the equipment is necessary for maintenance.
62.       Project works are conventional in design and well within the capa-
bility of local contractors. Nonetheless, if delay and/or cost overruns would
occur, the return on investment would still be expected to remain significantly
above the opportunity cost of capital. The risks associated with this project,
therefore, are considered to be minimal.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EAAB, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
There are no special conditions of effectiveness. A condition of disbursement
for the Bogota River rectification study is that EAAB, CAR and EEEB enter into
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of carrying out the
study (paragraph 4 of Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 2, 1979



- 21 -                                        ANEXI
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1138.9                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     224.8                                  MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /A ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  220.0        370.0     710.0           1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      491.0       606.0      671.0           911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         15.4        20.6       25.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 53.0 /f       60.3      64.3             57.9       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        14.0         18.0      22.0             25.6       50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      71.0        93.0      111.0             77.6       93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          46.6        46.6       44.1             42.0       42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          50.4        50.4       52.7             52.2       53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         3.0        3.2              3.7        3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.9         2.9        2.8              2.7        2.5          1.6
URBAN                               6.0 /g      5.5 /h    4.5               4.3        4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.1 /i      44.3 /i   40.6 /i          35.8       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.7         11.0       8.8              9.1       10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.2       3.1              2.6        2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        115.4     177.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      31.0             15.1       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)              98.0        100.0     109.1            102.1      107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    94.0        92.0       94.0            103.9      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0        51.0       47.0             60.3       63.0         77.7
OF WHICN ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0        29.0       24.0             26.7       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      16.3           ..      12.1              8.7        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          58.5      60.9             62.6       57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TIOUSAND)                           100.0 /i      70.0      97.1             56.9       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        63.0       64.0             60.7       56.8         67.7
URBAN                                ..        88.0       86.0             78.0       79.0         83.5
RURAL                                ..        28.0       33.0             34.9       31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        47.0       48.0             61.1       30.9         70.3
URBAN                                ..        75.0       73.0             80.3       45.4         90.7
RURAL                                ..          8.0      13.0             25.4       16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2400.0      2170.0    2180.0            1899.3     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3740.0      2040.0    1920.0            1220.1     1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             580.0       510.0      530.0            422.3      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                ..           ..     320.0            258.2      229.6        129.9
RURAL                                ..           ..    9670.0           2281.6     2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         23.0      25.0             25.6       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         6.0        5.9              5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              2.0        2.0          0.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              2.1        1.5          0.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..              2.7        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              47.0 /f        ..        ..             51.2       64.1         59.2
URBAN                              83.0 If        ..        ..             77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                               8.0 If        ..        ..             12.8       34.1         12.5



- 22 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                  la
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  77.0         98.0     105.0             103.5       99.8         97.6
FEMALE                77.0        100.0      108.0            102.9       93.3          87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         23.0      36.0              37.2       33.8         47.8
FEMALE                11.0         22.0       36.0             37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 31.0 /k        21.0      17.0              14.7       12.8          22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0      33.0              32.8       34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0       19.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         73.0       81.0             74.9        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         11.0       15.0             26.9        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         139.0        105.0      117.0            173.5       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         38.0        ..              69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0        109.0       69.0             72.8        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        6.8              4.3         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       5100.0 /f   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9         24.6      24.6              21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               47.0 /f      39.0         ..             37.8        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6         29.7       29.7             30.8        33.8         33.7
MALE                                  49.8         44.9       44.7             47.2        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                11.6         14.6       14.6             13.2        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8          1.6        1.6              1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2 /f.l   31.9 /l   27.2                 28.9        23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7 /f.l   60.1 /1   54.4                 57.7        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1 /f.l    3.5 /1    5.2                  3.2         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8 /f,l   10.1 /1   14.3                 10.7        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            251.9       191.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      145.0            200.6       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      154.0            403.1       319.8       448.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      153.0            258.0       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       24.0             24.8        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       55.0             65.2        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are populatimn-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (91136-2500 per capita., 1976); /f 1964; /R 1951-64; /h 1964-70; /i Official estimates
based on registration data show crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average 1961-70 as 36.0 and average
1971-76 as 31.0; /i Registered only; /k Includes teacher-training at the third level; /1 Economically
active population.
September, 1978



-23-                                          ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS Oy SOCIAL INDICATORS                            Page   3  of  5
Nats: The adjuated group average. for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extre_m values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries sxong the indicators dapende on eaylability of data end is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averagee for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters end indicators of acces to water end excrete disposal, housing, income distribution end poverty are
simple populationwighted geometric mns without the exclusion of extreme velue.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total  urbn, end rural - Population (tota1,
Total - Total surface are  comprising land area  nd inland waters.                       urben, and rural) divided by their reepective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Moet recent estimat  of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general end specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                           at least one physician.  Eetablishaonts providing principally cuotodial
Tcre are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - UNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                 cel centers not permanently stffed by a physician (but by a medical as
calculated by seie conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomnodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provide s limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total nueber of admissions to or diucharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual coneumption of commercial enrgy                    from hospitels divided by the number of beds.
(co-l and lignite, petroleum, natural geS and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogreas of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Averaxe sixe of household (persons per household) - total. urban, acd rcral -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals  who share living quarters
Total population, mid-veer (millions) - As of July 1; if not  v-iable,                   and their main  eals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, end 1977 data,                         the household for staaistisial purposes   Statistical definitiona of hoone-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas my affect comperability                  Averags number of persons per room - total, urban. and rural - Average nun-
of date among countries.                                                              ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
PopuLation density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structuros and
Per  sq. k.. - Mid-year popultion per square kilometer (100 heotares)                  unoccupied parts.
of total are.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total., urban, and rural -
Per sq. kh. aiculture land - Computed a  bove for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quart.rs as percentago
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, end rural dwellings respectively.
PopuDltion axe structure (percent) - Children (0-14 ycars), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years end over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total.,  nd urban - Compound  nnual                Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollent of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     ot the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  Cation enrollment may oxceed 100 percent since some pupils are bhlow or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                   sbove the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and femleu   - Computed *s above; secondory educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four yesrs of approved primry instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mst recent estimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupil6
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present ege-                     encluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clde technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as deptrrments of secondary institutiros
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - prinary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
pl-ning program.                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
FPmily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                      sponding lvels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) s
devices to a11 married women in seine age group                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per cepitr  (1970-100) - Index number of per                Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars conprisr motor onro
capita annual production of *11 food commodities,                                   seating less than eight persons; occludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of resuiremants) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies -vailable in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broedcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animll feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years whan registration of radio sets wan in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effect; dats for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAD based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
al activity and health considering environsental tempersture, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast tc  genera
weights, age sod  ea. distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-               public per thousand population; escludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                Nowspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita  net supply of food per day.  Net  upply of food is defined  s                 tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general news   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appoars at least four tines a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.          Cinem annual attendance  per  capita  per  year - Bnsed on the number of ticketo
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including adsissions to drive-in cineman and nobile
23 grame of anial protein as an aver-ge for the world, proposed by                    unit.
PAo in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita prstain supply from anil and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMIENT
derived from animals and pulses in grs per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ases 1-4) ortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but eocluding hosuseives,  tudents, etc.  Drfini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tioms in various countries are not coparabIe.
Feale (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participetion rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             female labor force as yercentges of their respectivr popouItions.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are ILO   adjusted participotion rutes reflecting age-sec
Number of people (total, urban, end rural) with res.nnable access to                  structure of the population, und long tie trood.
safe water oupply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Econ..ic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovur to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in ago group of 15-64 years.
and usnitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban aresa   public fountain or standpost located not more                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered  s being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and bind) received by richest 5
sonable access of thet house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percont, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housowifa or members of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water aeeds.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete   disposal (parcent of population) - total, urban, and              Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Ncmber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                     Absolute poverty iocome level is thbt income level below which a oioimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations,  Excreta                      nutritionally sdequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is cot
disposal may include the collnctio  sod disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-watnr by water-borne systens                 Estimated relative poverty  once level (ti) per capita) - urba  and rural -
or the use og pit privies and similar installations                                    Relative poverty inco=e level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita persosal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     Estimatod population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rutrl -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by nsmber of                          Percont of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
E conomic   andl Soci    Datn   Divioce n
Eoonomic Anu1ysis and Projections Dopart-et



- 24 -
ANNEX I
ECO90O6C DEVELOPMNIIT DATA                                                      Pag  4 of 5 Pages
(In mil11i. of  S Dollars)
1967-69          _         _oj baieted                                                 Projected                 Avaroot boocal G-eth eat-s                     A. P-racna of GDP
Mera- a         1975             1976            L977            1978             1979            1963        (1967-69)-74   1976-78       1979-83        1975         1978           1983
9A-T0NoC ACCOUNTS                                                                19cco76 Pri-e  ood E-oh-ooe Eooe-
not  ½ocos )n D m ic odorl            9,660         14,567          15,236           15,971          17,249          18,391          23,960             6.5          6.4          6.6         OO.0         197.0          N00.0
k:!n  Ft-p  Pococ of P-edo It-)   -731            -699            _                697              422              78            -145              -            -           _             4.9          2.4            0.6
.:ross D qe[i n              cm 138,96  15,236  16,668         17,671          10,469           23,915            7.4          7.7          6.6           95.2        102.4           99.4
I poro rItnI. MF)                      1,491          2,047           2,302            2,441           2,882           3,187           4,253             7.3         11.9          7.5           14.1         16.7           17.8
Tot,octo  Intl. UPS) (Irp  Cocoit) -1.419           -25097          _2.782           -3 09           -3.368           3b138A             46             6.5         10.7          4.0           15.6        19.5            15.6
Ooon,,nnt Cop                72          ~~~~      ~      ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~-250  -480  -691  -486        49             464              -            -            -            1.7          2.08            2.0
Cno..osupioo Eopo.oditoeo"              7,320         10,908          11,579           12,360          13,309           14,216          18.320            6.5          7.2          6.3           74.9         77.2           76.5
IrvesCmeDt E, pendioo res (Incl,      1,601          2,740           3,177            3,427           3,976           4,302            5,959           11.7         10.5          8.5          10.8         22.5            24.9
Dnteotesic osoing,                      1.9989         2,000           3,637           4, 108           4,3362          4,253            S 5493          11.31         9.52         6.6          20.5         25. 3          22.0
19509          2,914           3,309            3,06l           4,206           4,084           5,193            11.1         11.2          6.2          19.4         24.4           21.7
iE2ChAhDISE rhADE                                                                A-nq1l          C.-- at Current ri...                                                                              A. Petteot of Total
90700468111 TO.410                            Accoal gate at CorrsoO  Friose                                                                                 ______________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~    11  0  47:  46.
apItolr 2ondo9700                                      5d3              671             027           1,281           1,494            1,423           10.4         38.2         15.1         40.9          47.4           46.0
r.nooeodoote Coodo (Eol. Fool,)        254            609             733              772             979           1,005           1,000            21.4          9.5         15.1         42.7          32.3           320
Cuol, and Rolootd . SataOal,              3             19             129              094             253             434              705           12.2         40.0         16.0          1.1           9.4           14 .
Co---aptlot Coodo                        61            218             214              335             291             285              399           10.3         16.6          0.6         15.3          10.8             7.1
Total Oo--ondla-  eporto (CIF)          608          1,425           1,747            2,126           2,704           3,239            5,611           16.4         24.4         14.7        100.0         10.0           100.0
0f ONIon  Pnlmot-  Prodt,ont            409          1.393            1,874           7.415           2,932           2.623            3.728           14.5         23.4          9.2         81.1          86.3            79 1
07flOlot: Corfee                       (341)          (764)          71,792)         (1,760)         (7,064)          (1,771)         (2,044)         111.7)       (27.0)        (3.61       144.5)        (63.2)          (43.4)
O,--faotorad Goods                      117            324              381             391             446              50S             986           22.3          0.2         16.2         19.9          13.5            20.9
Ttol Mtn-h-ndio- Eorcstt (170)         606          1,717           2,255            2,796           3,298           1F              4,714            16.2         20.9         10.8        100.0         100.            I '.C
Eoport Price Indcc                       21.2           73.9           100.0            141.4           135.0           129.0            154.7
oporto Price  OoId-                      34.0           95.8           100,0            100.6           18.1            125.0           181.0
Tennof T_ode lndoo                       62.3           77.1           100.0            129.0           114.3            102.5            96.1
VALUE A2DED BY SEC3O0  (Fsctor Coot)                       A-nooI Data at 1976 - Pri-oo  and Eochoo.e Rates                                                  A -Etags Aoool Oto-th Rat..            Ac PerFe-t Of Total
Agnlcoloote                           7,923          4,145           4,224           4,330            4,719           4,953           6,10              2.8          5.7          5.4         37.6          29.3           27.7
It-dootto and hinine                 2,427          a333             3,933           4,7              4,434           4,744           6,430            6.7           6.2          7.0         28.3          27.7           29.2
Serol-t                              4,249           5,552           5.945           6.347            6.829           7.233           9,481             5.9          7.2          7.0         41.1          42.7           43. 1
otal                                 9,599          13,536          14,102          14,764           15,962          16,932          22,020             5.1          6.5          6.8       10.0          IO0.0          100.0
PuBLIc FIRANCE                                                     Annual Date 01 Otrosot Otosa                                                                                                        As Peto.ot of GDP
Poettral Conerooneot)
Crnet-n Osos lpto                    413           1,302           1,670           2,105            2,548           3,335           5,000            20.3         23,5         10.7         10.3          10.7           10.0
C.onet. Etptsdi-oocc                  262            702             751              931           1,109           1.712           2,314            16.1         21.5          7.5          4.8           4.7            5.0
Bodgetoto Savioga                     151            E00             919            1,119           1,439           1,603           2,686            26.2         25.1         13.8          5.5           6.D            5.0
Otte- Public So-t ta-logo            44              167             -37              -80              19             -95            -155 3                         -            -           1.1                           -
rtIlio  Solon Jo__s_et               612             917           1,135            1,123           1,636           2,003           3,276             6.6         20.1         13.1          6.3           6.9            7.1
S31E1CT0  7RDI10D1R5                                     1965-70           1976-78        1979-83
(Anoetot Ion Poelod Shoot)
Operate 7006 ltaatd 0m Groco Dotaeetlt
I-oretst, 1booed Ot YSeat)                         4.23             3.67           3.19
lopoct EloaoloOtn                                      1.28            1.09            1.19
toegltol Dqmteotlc SlVnlga tote                    -   0 20             0.35           0.21
Matgloal Mtioool .  a.. go  toot                       95 14           0 40            0,20
01OR FORCE ARD OUT0 0T Ff8 WOR1R                                     ttal Labor Fetes                                                                    DETAIL O  PF761C 967TOR IN7ESTMXST           X     T
tt Millionos                 0 of Total              Grqeth tate                                           PROGRAM AM6 FINANCING                         Actq ledased
1964           1973         1964           1973           1964-73                                                                                                                 1978
2.427          2,757         47.3           SI.2           -1 9                                               OgeIooltore                                    28.9                 26.5
Indusrry  0.95B  1.212        2t-I7 10.0                    2,7                                              lodoatrO  cod ololg                             10.9                 11.1
Soroico                                 R. 749         3.542         34.7           52.0            B.2                                               Pe-ter                                          5.5                 22.8
To-ol                                   5.134          6.012        100.0          100.0             3.2                                              Trenaport and Cen-icat-i-p                     242.2                1,5
Other                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I4.5  13.7
I gloo Added  -ea  -orkor 11976 Pr bee atd toohatos Ratee                                                  Total Ep-eod.t.eee                              16.                  15.4
ID 01 DRoloro                    7, of bocoaca            eCeGth Acts                                                                                         100.1                100.D
1964           1973             1984           1973           1964-71                                             FINANCING
ogronoltone                          i6D9          1,517             66.4           iiS.4            5,9                                              Poblic leotor leltga4                          69.1                 73.4
Ooduottt-                          1,037          2,092             235.2          14a,9            3.7 7oOsetoel Soottac                                                                            11.2                 1640
Soonioc                             1,730          1.546            127.3           90,0           -1.2                                               DInr-                                          168u                 10.6
Totol                               7 ,359         1,717            107.O          100.0            2.6                                               T-oIct-o oat..g                               168. 0               100.7
Apt-l 2, 1979



0000000 77
.         00            0'C           CO              000000.S  000 00090..........0.
00  on  00         oX            on                             00~~~~~~~.0..00000
0000.00    00 ..09   .0. .0
.00  000  0CC  000                       7700.0.0000.00~TV- 
.0l         00 I           9             00           0oCI'll0000000000
It,          I., 1~ ~~ ~~~~00.000  00  190  o0000
'XCI  0.0  ''0.0  - non  - 000  00000  9009                 77 90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0000~~z
000.009000.00.000  000.0 0000                                                                                                       0~~~~t
0000          VOCO'9                     00000                         000000~~~IR
'<C  0.  .0         90            000           00            00                               0~<~009o                  TI-,-                                                    '"                            no'00 00'0
"I. 900.0.00   000                                4                           00                          0
(6t    R,  ~~~~90                                   UTC                        0'0                           0'0                                           000
0 0  0 -  00  .9  09                                                    00.9                         0000                       0.00                          00900~~~~~~~~~~~~How
000. Ononooo0.o0.000 090.0  00         0000                        0.0                           0000                                    00099000.~zl
0000  0900'0 0.. n000000n  00                           090                           It0C'0
00.0099900.000000000                toC                           IT00          77            0                           0'00                           0000099.00
000  0.00                   0.0                           0.00                                           000~~~~~~~~~~~-)......  ...
non  non     000           000           000             0000000.0.00  00900                          0*00                         0'00                       0'0                           0'07
z, ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0.000000..009                                                       .0.0000900000                                    00000900000000
-      .            09~t                                                    0000



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
46 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                      718.8      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0               3.0
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply        2.0                .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               8.4
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2               1.0
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               2.8
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0               9.4
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                1.0
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2              12.0
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                .7
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               3.5
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    5.5                 .1
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              17.1
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                1.4
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5               11.2
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0              17.3
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               29.0
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              46.1
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0               44.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0               60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0               13.7
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0              24.4
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.8
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop
ment            24.8              24.8
1582 2/ 1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             126.0
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0              50.0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial           Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0              15.0
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.  100.0              100.0
1624 /2 1979  Colombia                         Airports          61.0              61.0
1628 /3 1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             84.0              84.0
TOTAL                                           2,023.2     23.5
Of which has been repaid                          392.3      1.7
Total now outstanding                           1,630.9     21.8
Amount sold                         49.7
Of which has been repaid            21.4           28.3
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,602.6     21.8
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                   871.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 28 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board      0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans        0.70      -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment     0.50       -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles          1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging        -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing       1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles          5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism              -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism           0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism           0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement            1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement            3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            27.28   8.24      35.52
Total commitments now held by IFC                 13.03   5.11      18.14
Total undisbursed                                   -        -        -



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing,
six sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about
190 km of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. The other
components of the project were completed with much less delay. The Government
is actively considering taking several actions to complete the program. As of
January 31, 1979, US$29.0 million (91% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date:  December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of January 31, 1979, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated. The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
All works are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, however, is
expected to be completed by mid-1981. Disbursements up to January 31, 1979,
amounted to about 90% of the loan amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. Two
contractors defaulted delaying work on the main drainage canal though a new
contract was recently signed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas
and the provision of technical assistance and farm credit have been making
inadequate progress. The closing date would be extended once the Government
provides appropriate assurances that the above delays and problems will be
resolved.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of January 31, 1979, about 70% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution.
Postponement of the closing date to September 30, 1980 is under consideration.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was carried out in May 1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost by the civil works. The
Borrower experienced financial problems but, since the start of 1978, adopted
substantial tariff increases and has been able to overcome them. Project
completion is now expected for June 1979. As of January 31, 1979, US$46.6 million
or 83% of the Loan amount had been disbursed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of January 31, 1979, only US$1.0
million equivalent remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted
a proposal to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of
the loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally
conceived. Project execution is now expected to proceed normally and total
project cost is projected to remain close to the appraisal estimate.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1979
The freight traffic in ton-km has increased by 6% in 1978 over 1977,
whereas pass-km of passenger traffic is likely to show a decrease of about 12%
due to the discontinuance of several uneconomic passenger train services.
Freight tariffs increased by 25% in 1979; passenger fares are expected to
increase by 25% shortly. CNR's operating ratio improved to 122.0 in 1978 from
147 in 1976. Average long-haul and train load have increased; staff has been
further reduced to 10,895 by September 1978 as against the last appraisal
target of 11,200 in 1976. Locomotive availability has deteriorated to an
all-time low of 55% due to engine failures in certain types of locomotives and
the shortage of urgently required spare parts. At the same time, an acute short-
age of cash to buy spare parts, together with high debt service charges and
increasing operating costs aggravated the situation. The Government is assisting
the railways financially and is studying corrective measures. As of January 31,
1979 only about US$800,000 of the loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceeding at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects and all sub-loans are now
underway. As of January 31, 1979, US$4.5 million or 56% of the loan had been
disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities, although rapid project execution has been affected by the Govern-
ment's economic stabilization measures. Works under this loan are expected to
be completed by March 1980. As of January 31, 1979, US$9.9 million or 37% of
the Loan had been disbursed.
12. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1979
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of slow procurement and delays in building construction. As
of January 31, 1979, only US$1.4 million equivalent or 9% of the Loan remained
undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows. As of
January 31, 1979, US$11.2 million or 57X of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of January 31, 1979, US$3.7
million equivalent of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
15. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually committed.
As of January 31, 1979, about 64% of the Loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its third year of implementation and is fully
operational. The core components of credit, technical assistance and training
are exceeding targets and institutional coordination is effective. The
forestry and water supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative
procedures, such as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some
difficulties, but these are much less serious than in the first year. Control
and monitoring of the physical and financial progress of the project is
comprehensive, but there is not yet a sound basis for evaluation of the
project; special studies are scheduled for the fall of 1978 to improve this
situation. As of January 31, 1979, only US$5.9 million equivalent, or 11%, of
the Loan had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
Nearly all the funds assigned to medium and large farmers have been
committed. The Borrower has recently taken steps to speed up the commitment
of funds to small farmers which should be fully committed by 1980. Concern



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
over possibilities of diversion and substitution of funds led the Borrower to
substantially increase its end-use supervision. Also, inflation has come
down and interest rates have been recently raised to levels at which real
interest rates are positive. About half of funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 48 subloans.
18. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of a series of personnel
changes of the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, and design of buildings
to house equipment.
19. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to management
turnover, project implementation has gone smoothly and by March 1979 about
US$7.3 million of Bank funds had been committed. As of January 31, 1979,
US$1.3 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. The rehabilitation program has slipped
by about 18 months. Preliminary stabilization and drainage works are complete;
contracts for 14 of the 34 construction lots have been signed and some works
have commenced. The maintenance program has slipped 21 months and has yet to
commence. Proposals from consultants to assist MOPT in executing the program
are being evaluated. The vehicle weight control program has experienced
a 9-month delay but progress is now satisfactory. No disbursements have yet
been made but documentation to disburse about US$4.0 million are being
processed by the Ministry of Finance.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Management and evaluation systems are operating
effectively.
22.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
has been delayed one year. EMCALI's financial position deteriorated during
the second half of 1978; the recent tariff increase will not be sufficient to
cover the forecast cash deficit in 1979 and the 3% rate of return for water
supply and sewerage covenanted for 1979 may not be reached.  E1CALI's manage-
ment is considering the action which should be taken to solve this problem.
23.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 changes in Government led to corresponding staff changes in
the executing agency and to slow project start; implementation is now running
about 12 months behind schedule. Work is under way in six out of the 23 cities
and it is expected that ten more will come on stream this year.
24.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and became effective on
April 5, 1979.
25.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated and are proceeding on
schedule.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
26.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
Project implementation has been delayed because of procurement
problems; now that a number of contracts have been signed, work is expected
to proceed without delay.
27.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
About US$7 million has already been committed for subproject
financing, and an additional US$30 million is presently being processed.
28.      Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, October 1978.
This loan was signed on December 29, 1978 but has not yet become
effective. Implementation is off to a good start and if effectiveness
is achieved before May, disbursements should be made as estimated.
29.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
November 1978.
This loan was signed on April 9, 1979, but has not yet become
effective.
April 10, 1979



- 37 -
ANNEX III
COLOMBIA
THIRD BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    Two years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    EAAB
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   January 1978
(d)  First mission to review project:  March 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   September 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:         April 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    August 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Assurances were obtained that:
(a) Betterment levies for the sewerage and drainage works
under the project would be charged and collected according
to arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, between EAAB
and IDU (paragraph 57).
(b) EAAB would maintain tariffs sufficient to provide a rate of
return of 7% in 1979 and 1980, 5% in 1981 and 1982, and
6% thereafter on its average revalued assets (paragraph 58).
(c) EAAB would contract foreign exchange loans of US$20
million on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(paragraph 59).
2.   There are no special conditions of effectiveness.  A condition for
disbursement for the Bogota River Rectification Study is that EAAB,
CAR and EEEB enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
the purpose of carrying out the study (paragraphs 48 and 64).






I.RD 13910R
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A
A~~~
COLOMBIA
THIRD BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .   i,k
SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
City of Bogota                                                                
PROJECT                                                EXISTING.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OEuE; gE--
-        Storm  Wet., Drainage Canal                      -            W         i-ag  Cral 
---   Sanitry Interceptor                              ---  S-nitary Interceptr.
_ -   Water Dir,lr6t1m-Min -M                               -   WaterDitributio Min                                                                                                                                                 0
* WeterNetneonkinT3aerr                                       Sanitary Parirrter.._
0     Sareraod  Drain-ge  Netork in                          M.,rrio. - an Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COLOM Ie
-.-ser,o,r                                               *      StoraeTank
Buo,IpArea                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c!
o   I   ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
or  , v  or  I,b   X  W^.n Z ,. ~~~~~~n, *.~~~m.^.,o. e . W. .D e E E U  _                                                                       _ _  _    _  _ _ /   _E                                                                                 E C U O R R Z E R   I
.nr.on,nnWoora,moo,,r~rrral /dV/& .,      ,.,.,o..t_, zf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -



