Report No. 1058-YU                                                      F LE  COPY
Appraisal of a Second Industrial
Credit Project Yugoslavia
May 11, 1976
EMENA Region, Projects Department
Industrial Credit and Development Finance Companies
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This documenit has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in hibeperformance of their offictal dutes. its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
From December 22, 1971 to July 12, 1973
1 US Dollar  =  17.0 Dinars
1 Dinar       =   5.89 US Cents
Since July 12, 1973, the Dinar
has been floating.
As of December 31, 1975
1 US Dollar  =  18.00 Dinars
1 Dinar       =   5.55 US Cents
This rate has been used for all con-
versions from Dinars to US Dollars
(and vice-versa) in this report
unless otherwise specified.
ABBREVIATIONS
LDR        Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
DR   -   Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
PBS   -   Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SBS   -   Stopanska Banka Skopje
IBT   -   Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP   -   Kosovska Banka Pristina
SDK   -   Social Accounting Service
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BANKS
(PBS, SBS, IBT, KBP)
January 1-December 31



APPRAISAL OF              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Chapter No.    Title                                                                            Pge No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................,.,.,.,.,,,                       i-iL
I.        INTRODUCTION ......................................................   1
II.  THE ENVIRONMENT.                                                                          1
A. Institutional and Economic Developments.                                        1
B. Regional Development Policies.                                                  4
C. The Industrial Sector.                                                          5
D.  The Financial Setting .....................................    6
III.         THE ROLE OF THE BORROWING BANKS (PBS, SBS, IBT AND KBP)
IN THE ECONOMY AND THEIR PERFORMANCE ..............................   9
A.  Resource Allocation .         ...........................................   9
B.  Resource Mobilization ...........           ..............................   9
C.  Project Promotion . .............................................   10
D.  Performance Under Industrial Credit Project I .................   11
IV.        THE BANKS' STRUCTURE ..............................................   11
A. Establishment and Legal Framework .-.------                                     11
B. Ownership .--                                                                   12
C.  Assembly, Boards and Workers Council ..........................   12
D.  Management and Staff ..........................................   13
E.  Organization ...........................................                       13
F.  Policies and Procedures ..        .............................   14
V.  THE BANKS' OPERATIONS ... 16
VI.         THE BANKS' FINANCIAL SITUATION ................................                    18
A. Resource Position .-----                                                        18
B.  Financial Performance ..........................19.............   19
C. Financial Position ...    19
D. Quality of Long-Term Loan.Portfolio .                                           20
E. Audits .21
F. Creditworthiness of the Banks .22
This report was prepared by Messrs. Vijay Chaudhry, Hans Griesshaber
aad George M.7niatis following their field appraisal of PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP
in November 1975.
t This docurmnt has a restrieWd dis4ribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offieial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disiosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Chapter No.   Title                                                                 Page No.
VII.       PROSPECTS .......................................................   23
A.  Environment:  (Draft) 1976-80 Plans ...........................  23
B.  Forecast of the Banks' Operations and Finances ....       ............  23
VIII.       OBJECTIVES, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND
MAIN FEATURES OF THE LOAN           ..26
A.  Objectives . --. --------------------    26
B. Economic Justification .------------------------------ 27
C. Main Features of the Loan .28
IX.       RECOMMENDATIONS ...................................................   31
BASIC DATA
Annexes
1        Plan Implementation in Less Developed Regions During 1971-75
2        Economic and Social Characteristics of the Less Developed Regions
Table 1 - Pattern of Regional Investment, 1973
Table 2 - Regional Structure of Unemployment
Table 3 - Regional Disparities in Per Capita Income
and Operational Features, 1973
Table 4 - Sectoral Structure of Economy by Region, 1971
3        The Banks' Borrowing and Lending Rates
4        The Banks' Legal Framework and Accounting System
5        The Banks' Organization Charts
6        The Bankg Role in the Project Cycle and The Quality of
Their Project Appraisals
7        The Banks' Summary of Operations:  1973-June 30, 1975
8        The Banks' Loan Characteristics
Table 1 - Classification of Long-Term Loans By Sectors:
1973-June 30, 1975 (Commitments)
Table 2 - Classification of Long-Term Loans to Industrial Sector
Text    - Summary Discussion of Loan Characteristics
9        The Banks' Statements of Long-Term Resources as at June 30, 1975
10       The Banks' Statements of Income and Expenses:  1974-June 30, 1975
11       The Banks' Balance Sheets:  1974-June 30, 1975
12       The Banks' Income Statement and Balance Sheet Ratios:
1974-June 30, 1975
13       The Banks' Long-Term Loans in Arrears Over Three Months as at June 30, 1975
14       Prospects of Federal and Less Developed Regions' Economies During
Plan Period 1976-80
15       The Banks' Forecast of Long-Term Loans:  1975-80
16       Projected Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds:  1975-80
17       Projected Income Statements:  1975-80
18       Projected Balance Sheets:  1975-80
19       Composition and Functions of the Unit, and the Statement
of Operations and Policies for the Project
20       Schedule of Estimated Disburser.ents of the IBRD Loan



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed second Industrial Credit Project, like the first one,
will focus on the financing of small- and medium-size industrial projects
in the less developed regions (LDRs) of Yugoslavia: the Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo.
The main banks in these regions, Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS), Stopanska
Banka Skopje (SBS), Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT) and Kosovska Banka
Pristina (KBP), respectively, will be joint borrowers of the proposed Bank
loan of US$50 million for the project. The repayment obligation of each bank
will be limited to its portion of the loan. SBS will serve as fiscal agent,
and one joint "Unit", staffed by the four banks, will be responsible for other
administrative functions under the loan.
ii.       PBS and SBS were the borrowers of two Bank loans totalling US$50
million under the first Industrial Credit Project (Industrial Credit I) ap-
proved in June 1974. Predetermined portions of these two loans were loaned
by PBS and SBS to IBT and KBP, respectively. Progress in regard to these loans
has been satisfactory, concerning both the financing and institution-building
objectives. The latter were related essentially to the four banks' develop-
ment banking functions, and are pursued further under the proposed loan.
iii.      The economies of the LDRs are lagging considerably behind those of
the developed regions (DRs) of Yugoslavia. Accelerated development of the
LDRs, a major policy objective of the Yugoslav Government, is expected to be
achieved mainly through higher rates of investments than in the DRs, supported
by low cost capital infusions through the "Federal Fund for the Accelerated
Development of the LDRs" (Federal Fund). Rapid development of industry has
been viewed as instrumental in the economic development of Yugoslavia and es-
pecially of the LDRs. Basic industries based on natural resources are given
priority in the development plans of the LDRs, but simultaneous development
of processing industries is also emphasized. The proposed loan is targeted
to finance projects mainly in the processing industries which are, generally,
smaller and more labor intensive than basic industries.
iv.       Each of the four banks--PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP--dominates investment
and commercial banking in its respective region. Excluding self-financing by
enterprises, about 80% of industrial financing in the social sector in the
LDRs is channelled through these four banks. These banks play an important
role, therefore, in their regional economic development, and do so in accord-
ance with the guidelines, policies and targets of their respective regional
development plans. They retain autonomy in their investment decisions, which
are based on their appraisal of the investment projects. Investments have to
co'aform with the regional and federal development plans, and, in future, will
also be screened by the Chambers of Economy at the regional and federal levels.



- ii -
v.        Each bank has qualified and experienced management, is generally
well organized and is capable of submitting satisfactorily appraised sub-
projects for Bank financing. The banks' management information systems, proj-
ect supervision, and planning of operations beyond one year, need strength-
ening; these aspects, as well as project appraisals, are the foci of the
institution-building objectives of the proposed loan.
vi.       Financial performance of the banks has been satisfactory, keeping
in mind that they merely seek to earn sufficient revenue to cover all their
expenses and financial obligations. In this regard, they are akin to coopera-
tive banks providing a service to their founders (shareholders). They are
fairly large institutions: total assets as of June 30, 1975 ranged from Din
9.7 billion (about US$540 million) for IBT to Din 36.7 billion (about US$2,040
million) for PBS, about half of which, or more, were long-term investments.
Arrangements made for audits of these banks under Industrial Credit I are
being implemented satisfactorily; partial audits have commenced and full
audits are expected in two or three years time. Pending audits of these
banks, their creditworthiness cannot be fully established along conventional
lines. However, based on their close ties with their respective regional
economies and on their own institutional strengths, they are all suitable for
the proposed IBRD loan.
vii.      The investment plans of the banks as well as the development plans
of the LDRs are constrained primarily by the availability of resources. Over
the next plan period of 1976-80, resource gaps projected for each bank, per-
taining to domestic and foreign borrowings not yet identified, are high, in
absolute terms (Din 5.0 billion for IBT to Din 14.8 billion for SBS) and as a
portion of each bank's total long-term resource requirements (32% for IBT to
39% for KBP). The gaps are expected to be filled largely with foreign borrow-
ings, borrowed by the banks directly or through the National Bank. The pro-
posed Bank loan of US$50 million is small in relation to the banks' total re-
source needs; even with respect to the banks' financing of the proposed target
group of projects (small- and medium-size industrial projects), it would ac-
count for only about 15% of their projected commitments over two years ending
June 1978. With the recommended loan features, however, the proposed loan
amount should be sufficient to achieve the loan objectives.
viii.     The loan allocation between the banks will be:  US$16.0 million, PBS;
US$11.4 million, SBS; US$6.0 million, IBT; and US$16.6 million, KBP. A free
limit on individual sub-loans of US$500,000 and an aggregate free limit for
each bank of around 40% of its portion of the loan has been set.  Individual
projects with total costs of normally up to US$6 million will be eligible
for Bank financing under the proposed loan; however, in cases where the Bank
sub-loans are supplemented with other foreign exchange financing, a higher
normal limit of US$10 million will apply. The size of individual sub-loans
will be restricted normally to US$2.5 million to allow financing of a suffi-
cient number of sub-projects under the loan and to encourage co-financing with



- iii -
other foreign exchange resources. If co-financing is contemplated with short-
or medium-term resources, as is generally expected, grace periods of up to six
years may be allowed on Bank sub-loans; otherwise, grace periods will be
limited to three years. Repayment period of individual sub-loans, including
the grace period, will not exceed 15 years. Bank funds will be on-lent by the
banks at 11%, with the sub-borrowers assuming the foreign exchange risk.



I
Pk                     .          I



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       In agreement with the Yugoslav Government, recent and proposed Bank
assistance to industry in Yugoslavia focuses on its less developed regions
(LDRs) through industrial lines of credit (dfc-type). These credit lines have
the objectives of financing small- and medium-size industrial projects and
institution-building of the intermediary banks, related essentially to their
long-term industrial lending operations. IFC, whose operations are aimed
primarily at promotion of joint ventures, is also looking for opportunities to
increase its industrial investments in the LDRs.
1.02      The officially designated LDRs in Yugoslavia are the Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro and the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo. Each of the four LDRs has a large bank which dominates investment
financing and commercial banking in the region, namely: Privredna Banka
Sarajevo (PBS), Bosnia-Herzegovina; Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS), Macedonia;
Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT), Montenegro; and Kosovska Banka Pristina
(KBP), Kosovo. These four banks were the recipients of two Bank loans, total-
ling US$50 million, approved in June 1974 under the first Industrial Credit
Project (Industrial Credit I); PBS and SBS as borrowers of the Bank loans
on-lent predetermined portions of the loans to IBT and KBP, respectively.
The proposed loan of US$50 million--the second in an expected series of
similar credits--is recommended to be made directly to the same four banks.
One of the banks will act as a fiscal agent and one joint "Unit", staffed
by the four banks, will administer the loan and carry out the project.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Institutional and Economic Developments
2.01       Institutional Set-up.  Yugoslavia's economic system is character-
ized by social ownership and control of the means of production, decentrali-
zation of political and economic decision-making, and the principle of workers'
self-management. The development of a participatory system with a declining
role for the state has led to a gradual reduction of centralized planning and
control. The role of the Federal Government in investment decisions and
financing of investment has been diminished in favor of republic and local
governments, enterprises, and the banking system. The new Constitution,
promulgated in 1974, provides for further delegation of power and decision-
making to the regions and the workers. The latter, forming "organizations of
associated labor", participate directly in decisions relating to election of
management, production, pricing, investment, distribution of generated income,



- 2 -
etc., of their enterprise in accordance with their "self-management agreement".
Relations between enterprises are also governed by self-management agreements,
following negotiations. On important policy matters, such as investment
priorities, general wage and pricing guidelines, agreements often take on the
form of "social contracts" between some level of government and representative
organizations of associated labor.
2.02       Economic Planning.  Planning in Yugoslavia starts at the level of
enterprises (and other communities of interest), within an initial macro-
economic framework worked out by the planning institutes. In the past, plans
were indicative and plan implementation left to enterprises and regional gov-
ernment bodies. However, plan implementation suffered, as evidenced by the
frequent incidents of over- or under-investment in particular industries,
structural imbalances, duplication of facilities, delays in completion, and
liquidity crises. The new Constitution institutes rigorous procedures that
would render planning more realistic and implementation more effective. Plans
henceforth will be more elaborate, obligatory, and subject to revision by an
institutionalized process of renegotiation; they will also integrate physical
and financial aspects of the investment programs. Enterprises will set out
their initial programs and coordinate them horizontally (within the same
sector/branch) and vertically (between sectors/branches) at the regional and
federal levels. Coordination and reconciliation of differences among enter-
prises at the republic and federal levels will be achieved through the Chambers
of Economy, which represent all enterprises and whose intermediation is man-
datory. A newly created Federal Planning Committee will resolve deadlocks that
may occur in the process of self-management planning. At the end, consensus
will be reached among all concerned on an integrated program of action. These
agreements, in the form of social contracts or self-management agreements, will
be legally binding for the entire plan period unless renegotiated. Projects
will not be initiated unless the sponsors have secured the requisite funds.
Banks, satisfying themselves about the viability of the projects, will also
undertake a commitment for the funds pledged. The new approach, which has been
initiated in drafting the 1976-80 Plan, thus, will strengthen and formalize the
commitments for plan implementation by enterprises, banks and government
institutions.
Economic Performance. 1/
2.03       During the last Plan period 1971-75, Yugoslavia's performance fell
short of the planners' expectations and was marred by inflationary pressures,
1/    A detailed review of Yugoslavia's economy can be found in "The Economic
Development of Yugoslavia" (R74-1), November 1973, and "Economic
Memorandum-Yugoslavia" (662a-YU), May 1975. The economies of the LDRs
are reviewed in "Problems and Policies of Regional Development in
Yugoslavia" (678-YU), March 1975; "The Economy of the Socialist Autono-
mous Province of Kosovo", (207-YU) July 1973; and "The Economy of the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina", (508-YU), August 1974.



- 3 -
rising unemployment and balance of payments problems. International distur-
bances contributed to and exacerbated some of these problems. Real GMP 1/ grew
at about 6% per annum compared with a 7.3% projected growth rate. Gross fixed
investment increased at an average annual rate of 5.5%, short of the forecast
7%. Industrial investment accounted for approximately 50% of the total. The
growth of investment and output slowed down considerably in 1972 and 1973, as
a result of the stabilization measures adopted and the attempt of the Yugoslav
authorities to impose financial discipline over enterprises and socio-political
units. Setbacks in agriculture and industry, exacerbated by world and domestic
inflation, and the world recession, also affected adversely economic perform-
ance. Industrial production rose at an annual average rate of 8.4%, and
exceeded the forecast rate of 8%. Industrial exports increased by 24% annually
and reached US$4.2 billion in 1975. Increased imports, as a result of the
rise in the oil bill and the resurgent domestic demand, the unfavorable shift
in the terms of trade, and the decline in the growth of invisibles, resulted
in a sharp reversal of the current account from a surplus US$0.5 billion in
1973 to a deficit of US$1.1 billion in 1975. Although employment grew at 4%
annually (forecast rate 3%), unemployment (in part due to the reflux of emi-
grant workers in 1974-75) rose from 6% in 1970 to over 9% of labor force in
1975, particularly affecting the LDRs. 2/ Price inflation (measured by the
GMP deflator) rose by an unprecedented annual rate of 19% during 1971-75;
the respective rate during 1965-70 was 8%. There are strong indications that
since mid-1975, as a result of determined efforts to curb inflation, price
increases have been contained. Prices are projected to rise at an average
annual rate of 9% (+ 20%) during 1976-80.
2.04       The economic growth of the LDRs, with the exception of Montenegro,
was for the first time above the national average (for details see Annex
1). The estimated growth of GMP for the entire 1971-75 period was 18% higher
than the national average, although lower than the projected 25%. Similar-
ly, industrial growth was higher 10%, fixed investment 16%, and employment
32%, than the national average. This superior performance should not, how-
ever, conceal the fact that plan implementation in the LDRs fell short of
projected targets. Shortfalls in investment and production were due to de-
lays in construction and start-ups of new facilities, stemming from shortage
of funds following sharp rises in prices and low accumulation by enterprises;
difficulties in obtaining imported semi-finished products; unbalanced in-
ternal capacities leading to excess capacities in particular phases of pro-
duction and shortages in others; and lack of technical and managerial staff.
The 1976-80 Plan makes a serious attempt to grapple with these problems. 3/
1/    GMP (Gross Material Product, which is identical to social product)
excludes "nonproductive" services, such as education, health, adminis-
tration, defense, and other public services. GDP has been approxima-
tely 14% higher than GMP.
2/   Unemployment is measured in terms of registered job-seekers actually un-
employed as well as those employed but seeking new jobs.
3/   The prospects of the Yugoslav economy in general and of the less de-
veloped regions in particular are discussed in para 7.01 and Annex 14.



- 4 -
B. Regional Development Policies
2.05       The thrust of regional development policy to date has been:  (a)
to reduce the income disparity among regions; (b) to alleviate unemployment
in the LDRs; and (c) to upgrade the level of social services. This policy
has succeeded in sustaining quite a rapid rate of development in the LDRs.
GMP grew at 7.1% a year during 1971-74 (6.7% in 1953-71) compared with 6.7%
(7.4% in 1953-71) in the developed regions (DRs). This respectable rate of
growth in the LDRs was achieved through high rates of investment in the social
sector (29% of GMP compared with 19% in the DRs in 1973), supported by trans-
fers of resources through the Federal Budget and the "Federal Fund for the
Accelerated Development of the LDRs" (Federal Fund). The significance of these
financial transfusions, particularly for Kosovo, is depicted in Annex 2.
However, the objective of reducing regional income differences on a per capita
basis has not been attained so far. Per capita GNP in 1973 was only US$648 for
the LDRs compared with US$1,418 for the DRs (average for Yugoslavia = US$1,062).
Furthermore, unemployment rates remain considerably higher in the LDRs and
certain structural weaknesses of the economy persist, e.g., lower productiv-
ity of labor and lower accumulation rates (see Annex 2). Reduction of the
income disparity among regions and containment of unemployment within social-
ly and politically acceptable levels continue therefore to be major development
problems.
2.06       Bridging the gap between the DRs and LDRs has been difficult due
to several factors. Population growth rates in the LDRs have been about
three times as high as those in the DRs. Despite the relatively high vol-
ume of investment rates, the volume of investment per capita in the LDRs (with
the exception of Montenegro) remained below the average for Yugoslavia (see
Annex 2) and, as a result, it was insufficient to close the gap. Over 85% of
the cumulative foreign investments in Yugoslavia has taken place in the DRs.
Inter-republic transfers of capital and know-how have been meager, possibly
because capital is short and unskilled labor relatively ample almost in all
DRs; the quality of infrastructure services is wanting while technical and
managerial skills are in short supply in the LDRs; enterprises and banks
generally give priority to their home region and thereby forestall the po-
tential deployment of investible funds across regional boundaries. Further-
more, the investment pattern in the LDRs has had a strong orientation toward
the development of capital intensive industries: power, coal, ferrous and
non-ferrous metallurgy, pulp and paper, basic chemicals (see Annex 2)--often
in fulfillment of designated national priorities. These industries have
relatively high incremental capital-output ratios and generate fewer employ-
ment opportunities. Finally, due to unrealistic pricing policies in energy
and basic industries, producers in the LDRs have in effect been subsidizing
consumers in the DRs. To rectify the situation, development of inter-republic
linkages to facilitate the integration of LDRs with the rest of Yugoslavia,
greater geographical mobility of capital, labor and enterprise, improvement
of infrastructure and services, promotion of more labor-intensive industries,



adoption of more realistic pricing policies, increased participation of
beneficiaries in the DRs in the financing of projects of national importance,
population policy, are matters which deserve, and are receiving, full con-
sideration by the Yugoslav authorities.
C. The Industrial Sector
2.07      Role of Industry.  Industry has been the prime mover of Yugoslavia's
economic growth and has opened up the country to the world economy. Industrial
output increased at about 10% annually in real terms over the past two decades,
raising the share of industry in GMP from 23% in 1954 to 39% in 1974. Indus-
trial investment grew at an impressive rate of 19% per annum in real terms
during 1954-73, accounting for about one-half of total investment in the social
sector. Basic industries (power, coal, metallurgy, crude oil, chemicals,
pulp and paper) represent 53% of total industrial fixed assets. Industrial
exports, which account for 90% of total commodity exports, increased by an
imposing 17% annual rate over the last two decades. Yugoslavia's industrial
exports are quite diversified: metal and engineering products account for
about one-third of the total; non-ferrous metals, textiles, leather, clothing
and footwear contribute another one-third; forest products, food products and
chemicals account for the balance. Despite the relatively capital-intensive
character of industrial investment, industrial employment increased at a
respectable annual rate of 5% in 1954-74, compared with an increase of 4%
for the entire social sector. Industry now accounts for 39% of total social
sector employment compared with 33% two decades ago. Gains in productivity
were noteworthy during the same timespan, averaging 5% a year.
Industrial Objectives and Policy
2.08      Rapid development of industry (including mining and energy) has been
viewed as instrumental for the achievement of high rates of economic growth
and structural changes in Yugoslavia. In general, development has been
outward-oriented and, since 1965, there has been strong emphasis in the adop-
tion of modern technology and the attainment of international competitiveness.
Priority has been given to the promotion of basic industries, on grounds that
their development has lagged behind in the past and has become a major con-
straint on growth and a source of difficulties in the balance of payments.
Promotion of basic industries has also been viewed as the main engine of
growth in the LDRs (see para 2.06). This strategy seemed expedient since it
made possible the exploitation of available natural resources and provided
power and essential inputs for the processing industries in the DRs or for
exports. Furthermore, compared with the requirements of promoting light
industries, basic industries economized on scarce management, technical and
marketing expertise.
2.09      The 1976-1980 (Draft) Federal Plan and Regional Plans of the LDRs
stress rapid industrial growth and exports; completion of on-going projects;



-6-
removal of internal imbalances in industry and better utilization of produc-
tive facilities; modernization; decrease in the country's import-dependence
on energy, raw materials, semi-finished products and parts; and reduction of
technical and technological dependence on foreign partners.  The share of
industry in the total investment in fixed assets in the social sector in
Yugoslavia would rise from about 50% in 1971-75 to 54% in 1976-80 (with in-
vestment in energy accounting for almost one-half of the industrial investment)
The emphasis on the accelerated development of basic industries, which has
been reinforced by the worsening balance of payments situation, and the at-
tendant deepening of the industrial structure entail more capital intensive
projects, which can be financed only through increased savings and transfers
of capital from abroad. The goals set are certainly ambitious. Decisions con-
cerning inter alia the allocation of enterprise income between workers' income
and reinvestible surplus, and the ability to tap foreign resources, will be
crucial.
2.10      Protection.  Industry, including that located in the LDRs, has been
increasingly exposed to international competition in the last decade or so.
The level of protection is generally moderate, with the average effective
tariff estimated at about 18%. The Yugoslav authorities are committed to a
liberalized trade system and view the maintenance of an open economy as crucial
for promoting industrial efficiency.
2.11      Subsidies.  Industries located in the LDRs have access to low inter-
est bearing loans. Subsidization in some administratively convenient form is
considered important for promoting industrial development and stems from the
structural weaknesses of the economies of these regions, resulting in compara-
tively lower labor productivity and higher cost per unit of output. Under
these circumstances, the competitiveness of undertakings located in the LDRs
is seriously undermined. Since protective duties or quotas are not con-
ceivable in the Yugoslav notion of a unified domestic market, subsidization
through low interest loans is compensatory in nature and strengthens their
ability to comapete. The impressive investment rates achieved (see para 2.05)
tend to support this official view.
D. The Financial Setting
Institutional Framework
2.12      Investment and mixed banks are the dominant forms of financial inter-
mediaries, with seven institutions accounting for about 80% of total term loans.
The proposed Bank borrowers - PBS, SBS, IBT, and KBP - dominate investment and
commercial banking in their respective regions.
2.13      The range of financial instruments aavailable to potential savers is
very narrow (e.g. there are no equity instruments or corporatc bonds), while
real returns have been negative due to persistent inflationary pressures.



Banks in the LDRs rely mainly on federal and republic sources for investment
funds. There is some inter-regional mobility of capital, but the flow is
uneven and acute shortages develop. Access to foreign capital markets has
improved in recent years. Direct foreign investment (mainly joint ventures)
has not been significant in the LDRs but it is growing.
2.14      Lack of financial responsibility and discipline on the part of many
enterprises had resulted in serious liquidity problems in the past. Recently,
however, legislative measures were taken to remedy the situation. Enterprises
are not allowed to invest before they have secured funds or bank guarantees to
finance the entire cost of the project, including price contingencies. This
also applies to banks that grant loans or issue guarantees on loans to enter-
prises undertaking new investment. Severe sanctions, including fines and
penalties under criminal law, would apply to debtors when obligations are
not settled on due dates or the law is otherwise violated. To strengthen the
financial position of industrial enterprises and to improve the term structure
of their debt, some short-term credits extended to enterprises by the Yugoslav
National Bank (directly or through banks) were converted into grants or long-
term loans during 1973-74. Also, short-term credits to industrial enterprises
from the banks' own resources have been selectively converted into long-term
credits. The extent and the terms of the conversion was decided by each bank,
taking into account its own financial situation and the particular needs of
each enterprise. Certain credits from republic funds were transferred to
enterprises for their permanent use, earmarked as "development funds". Finally,
measures were taken to encourage enterprises to base inventory valuation and to
calculate depreciation allowances on replacement rather than on historical
costs.
Interest Rates
2.15      Interest rates play a limited role in the formation of aggregate
savings. Most private savings are precautionary or expedient 1/ in character.
Enterprise savings, which constitute over three-fourths of the resources for
investments in the social sector, are determined by the regulations on depre-
ciation of fixed assets and distribution of enterprise income, rather than by
interest rates on enterprise deposits. The Yugoslav authorities are focussing
their attention primarily on ways and means to increase enterprise savings. To
this end, starting with 1975 there will be annual revaluations of the fixed
assets of enterprises relating to price increases. This should induce enter-
prises to set aside more funds for depreciation allowances. Furthermore, there
are indications that the system of income distribution is shifting toward
restraining allocations to personal incomes. Enforced through binding social
contracts and self-management agreements, this shift is certain to increase
the investible surpluses of enterprises.
1/   E.g. build-up of funds for down payments for purchases of houses, consumer
durables, agricultural equipment, etc.



- 8 -
2.16      Interest rates perform no significant allocative function in the
Yugoslav systeM.  This is more so under the new Constitutional arrangements
than in the past, when planning was indicative. The function is effectively
discharged by the planning mechanism through the process of specifying prior-
ity activities, the projects to be included (which comprise the bulk of in-
tended investment outlays) and the attendant financial arrangements (see para
2.02). Nevertheless, efficient allocation depends on the application of con-
sistent and appropriate project selection criteria. There are encouraging
signs that such criteria are being developed and applied by the financial
institutions. In fact, the adoption and wider application of sound methods
for project selection is one of the Bank's obiectives in recommending the pro-
posed loan to the four banks in the LDRs. The mandatory screening of projects
by the Chambers of Economy and their subsequent subjection to sound financial
and economic analysis by the banks prior to the banks' commitment to finance
the projects, can be expected to ensure a reasonably efficient allocative
pattern of financial resources.
2.17      Interest rates on deposits and loans are fixed annually by each
bank's assembly. The Association of Yugoslav Banks ensures that fairly uni-
form lending rates prevail throughout the country. The prevailing structure
of interest rates is shown in Annex 3. Lending rates depend on the terms of
loans, sources of funds and their respective cost to the bank, and on the
types of projects. As a result, the average cost of long-term funds to the
borrower may vary; presently, the highest rate is 11%.  Borrowers bear the
foreign excliange risk for funds raised abroad. Because of the high rntes of
inflation in recent years, local currency lending rates have been negative.
There are several systemic reasons that impede major increases in interest
rates, emanating from the ideological bias against income from private finan-
cial assets. Also, the effective control of the banks' policies by founder
enterprises, which are also the borrowers, has resulted in resistance to
significant upward adjustment of interest rates.  However, accordi-.g to legis-
lation which has been introdutced, henceforth, depositors and other suppliers
of funds will participate in the decision-making process of all-purpose banks;
and savings banks will be instituted which would be in a position to negotiate
with the borrowing banks the price of the funds they would place at their dis-
posal. These reforms are expected to bring about an increase in the prevail-
ing interest rates.
2.18      The Yugoslav authorities had considered recently the possibility of
indexing interest rates.  However, the idea was abandoned, presumably because             d
of the serious administrative problems involved in monitoring such a complex
system; concern that indexation of industrial loans, by ushering in an uncer-
tainty as to the actual future cost of capital, would adversely affect indus-
trial investment; the strong possibility that indexation per se may reinforce



- 9 -
expectations that high inflation rates will persist; and the chance that in-
dexation may result in relaxation of the Government's effort to curb infla-
tion. 1/ The Yugoslavs do appreciate, however, that negative interest rates
have an undesirable redistributive effect, in that income is transferred from
depositors to borrowers. To achieve positive interest rates, in addition to
the reforms mentioned in para 2.17, the Yugoslav authorities have undertaken
stern stabilization measures to contain inflation. It is expected that price
increases would average around 9% annually during 1976-80 (20% in 1975) through
a more effective demand management and increases in production and supply.
This is a move in the right direction.
III. THE ROLE OF THE BORROWING BANKS (PBS, SBS, IBT AND KBP)
IN THE ECONOMY AND THEIR PERFORMANCE
A. Resource Allocation
3.01      Each of the four proposed Bank borrowers plays a dominant role in
financing investments, especially in industry, in its respective region.
Excluding self-financing by enterprises 2/, about 80% of industrial financing
during 1971-74 in the LDRs was channelled through their regional banks. Per-
formance of the banks in meeting investment targets, therefore, is little
different from the economic performance of their respective regions (see para
2.04). Although under the new planning process the development plans will be
more specific and binding than in the past concerning the investments to be
undertaken (para 2.02), the banks will retain the authority to approve, modify
or reject specific investment proposals submitted for their financing, on the
basis of their appraisal of the projects. Project appraisals by the banks
should continue to have an important bearing, therefore, on the allocation of
resources.
B. Resource Mobilization
3.02      Domestic resource mobilization efforts are limited to attracting de-
posits from the public as well as from economic and non-economic organizations;
the four banks compete with other banks in Yugoslavia but each is dominant in
1/   It is noteworthy in this context that the effects of indexation on the
volume of savings and on the efficiency of investment allocation are far
from established in the economic literature. See "Index-linking of Fi-
nancial Contracts: A Survey of the State-of-the-Arts," Bank Staff Work-
ing Paper No. 192, November 1974.
2/   Suppliers' credits (repayments) are included under self-financing.



- 10 -
its respective region. The growth in long-term deposits (including foreign
currency deposits) during 1974 was about 39% for PBS, 38% for SRS, 27% for
IBT and 19% for KBP which, except for KBP, compares favorablv with the aver-
age growth in time deposits for all Yugoslav business banks of about 25%.
3.03      The banks~ efforts in mobilizing foreign exchange investment re-
sources are directed at guaranteeing suppliers' credits (main resource), at-
tracting deposits of Yugoslav workers abroad 1/ and obtaining foreign borrow-
ings. As generally expected, foreign borrowings by the four banks during the
last two years remained small because:  (a) the National Bank continued to be
the main borrower of foreign loans which were then allocated through regional
banks to different regions and priority projects; (b) there was a prohibitive
deposit requirement 2/ on foreign financial credits above specific quotas (gen-
erally earmarked for priority projects); (c) market conditions were unfavorable
(high cost); and (d) large enterprises often contracted foreign loans for their
projects directly (with a bank's guarantee) rather than a bank borrowing on
their behalf. Foreign borrowings accounted for only 2.4% (PBS) to 7.0% (IBT)
of each bank's total resources as of June 30, 1975 (Annex 9). Yugoslav policy
concerning the relative role of the business banks and the National Bank in
mobilizing foreign resources in the coming years is not yet known.
C. Project Promotion
3.04      The banks have a limited role in project promotion but each bank is
associated with at least a couple of such projects a year. Most such projects
are located in the least developed areas. Often, project promotion results
from a joint effort by the socio--political community that would benefit rrom
the project, the branch of the bank servicing the community and an interested
enterprise normally operating in a related field.  Preparation of the project
is generally entrusted to the enterprise, with the bank and socio-political
community providing financial assistance. Each bank has some special resources
available to it, mainly federal and republic funds, for making low-interest
loans and grants for feasibility studies and technical assistance for projects.
Also, financing of these projects by the banks generally includes a higher than
average proportion of federal and republic funds which carry low interest rates
(3-5%) and easy repayment terms.
1/   The foreign exchange so obtained is sold to the National Bank whicl: also
assumes the foreign exchange rlsk on the deposit; the depository bank
receives the equivalent amount of locPi currency funds.
2/   Non-interest bearing Dinar deposits by the borrower, equivalent to 75% of
the amount of the foreign financial credit, are required to be kept with
the National Bank for as long as any part of the credit is outstanding.



- 11 -
D. Performance Under Industrial Credit Project I
3.05      The dual objective of providing finance for small- and medium-size
industrial projects and institution building pursued under the first Industrial
Credit Project have been by and large achieved up to the Bank's expectations.
The two Units established for the purposes of the project (one between PBS and
IBT and one between SBS and KBP) simplified the Bank's effort in achieving
the loan objectives.
3.06      The principal focus of the institution-building effort was on the
banks' project appraisals where progress to date has been satisfactory (para
4.14). The programmed audits of the banks are also progressing satisfactorily
(paras 6.10-6.11). Improvements in the banks' management information systems
have been understandably slow (para 4.17), and progress towards more regular
supervision of projects has not been up to expectations (para 4.15). Greater
attention will be focused on these aspects under the proposed loan. Mobiliza-
tion of foreign exchange resources by the banks remained small (para 3.03).
3.07      Commitments under the project loans have been faster than expected.
By the end of April 1976 around US$42 million of the two loans totalling US$50
million had been committed for 64 investment projects. The loans are expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1977, about a year ahead of appraisal
estimate. The number of sub-projects financed range between 8 for IBT (four
below the free limit) to 20 for KBP (16 below the free limit). Projects above
the free limit have the following main characteristics: (a) average project
size between US$2.4 million for IBT to US$4.4 million for SBS; (b) average
IBRD sub-loan between US$1.1 million for IBT to US$1.9 million for KBP; (c)
economic rate of return ranging between 12% and 45%; and (d) average investment
cost per job created amounting to about US$22,000 for PBS, US$27,000 for SBS,
US$40,000 for IBT and US$47,000 for KBP; high ratios in the case of IBT and
KBP being due mainly to the inclusion of a large proportion of reconstruction
projects that have low new employment generation but safeguard existing jobs,
which are not counted in calculating the ratios. The capital intensity of
these projects is not excessive considering the need for Yugoslav industry to
adopt modern plant and technology to compete with European industry.
IV. THE BANKS' STRUCTURE
A. Establishment and Legal Framework
4.01      The basic legal framework for the banks is provided by the Federal
Banking Law of December 1971 and by each bank's statutes. 1/ The banks' op-
erations are regulated by the National Bank and various Federal directives,
1/   New banking legislation is expected in 1976.



- 12 -
and conformity with various laws and regulations is ensured through supervi-
sion by the National Rank and the Social Accounting Service (SDK).  Annex 4
gives the important details concerning the legal framework and control. Owner-
ship. organization and operations of each bank, as well as the functions and
powers of its main management organs and branches, are governed by its statutes.
B. Ownership
4.02      Yugoslav enterprises in general are owned by "the society".  They do
not have share capital or shareholders. Banks, however, have shareholders
(founders) and share capital (founders fund). The larger enterprises and some
socio-political organizations in the region affiliated with the bank are the
founders of that bank and members of its Assembly (or of one of its branches).
As of June 30, 1975, the number of founders varied from 128 for KBP to 342 for
SBS, and the founders funds ranged from Din 342 million for IBT to Din 2,149
million for PBS. Individual shareholdings rarely exceed 5% of total in each
bank.
C. Assembly, Boards and Workers Council
4.03      The Assembly of each bank is its highest governing body in which
every founder has the right to one vote. 1/ The Assembly approves the bank's
policies, appoints the chief executive and elects the members of the Executive
Board and Credit Board. It also decides on the distribution of the bank's in-
come to employees (in aggregate) and founders, as well as appropriations to
the bank's reserves.
4.04      The Executive Board is responsible for executing policies approved
by the Assembly and other functions as determined in the bank's statutes, in-
cluding approval of loans in amounts exceeding the authority of the Credit
Board. 2/ Members of the Executive Board (numbers vary from KBP, 18 to SBS,
35) are elected from among the founders.
4.05      The Credit Board of a bank also consists of members elected from
among the founders (varying between 11 and 16). The only function of the
Credit Board is loan approvals. SBS and PBS have separate credit boards for
short-term and long-term loans.
1/   Voting right in the Assembly used to be proportionate to a founder's con-
tribution to the founders fund but this practice was changed during 1975.
The change has however not yet been reflected in the banks' statutes, ex-
cept in the case of SBS; its inclusion in the statutes is pending the new
banking legislation which would specify the voting rights of founders.
2/   The maxitnum limit up to which the Credit Boards of the banks are authorized
to approve loans are, in Din million: SBS, 30; IBT, 5; KBP, 2C. In the
case of PBS, there is a limit of Din 200 million on the amount of project
investment cost.



- 13 -
4.06      The Workers Council, whose members are elected from and by bank
employees, represents the employees in the administration and operations of
the bank. Also, in consultation with the bank's management, it decides on
individual salaries and fringe benefits for workers within the aggregate
amount approved by the founders.
D. Management and Staff
4.07      The chief executive of each bank is its General Manager who is ap-
pointed for a four-year term by the bank's Assembly 1/. Assistant General
Managers supervise, each, two or more department Directors. Senior management
of each bank is competent. Managers are typically university graduates (mostly
in economics) with many years experience, often in both banking and industry.
Changes of top managers are infrequent, and professional competence is the main
criterion for selection and appointment at all levels.
4.08      The staffs of the banks have increased by about 5-10% annually in
recent years and the turnover has remained low (2-3%). As of June 30, 1975,
the number of employees ranged from 477 in IBT to 3289 in PBS, of which about
one-fourth are professional staff. The proportion of professional staff is
higher in the head offices than in the branches and most are economists or
engineers. Staff numbers are shown on the organization charts in Annex 5.
Despite the frequent recourse to outside consultants for appraisals of large
and/or complex projects, the staffs of the industrial investment departments
at the head offices of the four banks appear to be overly burdened, especial-
ly the engineering group in KBP. All the banks need to strengthen their super-
vision work which will also require additional staff. The banks recognize this
and plan to recruit more staff. Staff in the banks' industrial investment de-
partments are competent and many have become reasonably well versed in financial
and economic criteria generally applied in IBRD project appraisal. Dissemina-
tion of knowledge concerning such analysis to other investment departments of
the banks is also progressing, although slowly.
E. Organization
4.09      Head Office.  The organizations of the banks are fairly similar.
Their head offices are all organized by functional activities (sectors), such
as resource planning, investment and administration. In each bank, the
investment sector is subdivided into departments for industry, agriculture,
etc., with a common engineering group servicing these departments. Project
supervision and follow-up work is mostly delegated to the branches but the
head office investment departments also supervise some projects. Overall, the
1/   Except in the case of PBS, where, as a result of amendments to its sta-
tutes in March 1975, a President, appointed by the Assembly, shares the
responsibility with the General Manager.



- 14 -
banks' organizations are appropriately structured except for the sunervislon
functions, which need to be better coordinated and strengthened (see para
4.15).
4.10      Branches.  Each bank has several branches:  PBS, 21; SBS, 22; IBT, 8;
and KBP, 11. The branches have their own Executive Boards 'Except branches of
KBP) and Credit Boards, and have considerable autonomy in rtspect of placing
their self-generated or self-mobilized funds (mainly deposits) and of day-to-
day administration. Lending operations of branches, particl1arly long-term
lending, are limited, however (see para 4.13).
F. Policies and Procedures
4.11      Each bank has an annual "Business Policy" which is approved at the
annual meeting of its founders' Assembly. The Business Policy is prepared
at the beginning of each year, against the background of the regional devel-
opment plan, and specifies the bank's main objectives, magnitude of operations,
and interest rate policies for customer deposits and lending operations
(discussed in paras 2.15-2.18), for that year.
4.12      The banks do not have formal financial policies concerning their
operations (such as exposure limits i/) or financial structures that are
normally associated with development banks. As an exception, IBT has a policy
limiting its financial exposure in a single enterprise to a maximum of 10% of
its portfolio (exceptions can be approved by its Assembly). The lack of formal
financial policies is not critical, however, since:  (a) in practice, the
banks' policy is to generally match the maturities of their loans (short-term
or long-term) and their resources; (b) debt/equity ratios are not very meaning-
ful for these banks (see para 6.13); (c) the risk of excessive lending to one
enterprise by a bank is generally mitigated by the fact that the bank has a
large number of founders who are also its borrowers (each with one vote in the
Assembly), and they generally ensure a wide distribution of loans amongst
themselves. Also, under the new planning process, more than before, large
allocations of funds to projects or enterprises would be in accordance with
the economic priorities and agreements reached between all interested parties
in Yugoslavia (para 2.02).
Project Appraisals
4.13      In each bank, investment projects that the branches of the banks
can finance from their own resources are appraised and approved by the branches
but projects requiring resources from the head office are handled by the head
office. Since a bulk of the banks' resources including all federal and republic
funds and foreign exchange funds are channelled through the head offices, most
projects, except those requiring short-term funds or small amounts of long-term
financing, are appraised and approved by the head offices.
1/   A bank's lending to a single client is limited by the Banking Law to
normally up to 30% of its total investment portfolio.



- 15 -
4.14      The main weaknesses identified in the four banks' appraisals during
our first appraisal of the banks at the end of 1973 were the marketing, finan-
cial and economic analyses of projects.  It was also felt that the banks paid
inadequate attention to escalation and contingency allowances in estimating
project costs. While there is still room for improvement in the banks' proj-
ect appraisals, their recent appraisal reports show considerable improvement
over previous ones. A further discussion on the banks' appraisals as well as
an outline of their role in the project cycle is given in Annex 6. All four
banks are considered capable of submitting adequately appraised projects for
financing under the proposed loan.
4.15      Supervision of Projects.  Supervision responsibility, at present,
is mostly delegated to the branches of the banks. The head office staff gen-
erally supervise only large and/or problem projects. There is little or no
regular supervision of projects once they are operational, but regular super-
vision of the clients is normally assured since the banks' branches also serve
as commercial banks and as sources of short-term financing for their clients.
As most of the clients generally apply again to the banks within a couple
of years for new financing, appraisal and supervision often blend together.
Quarterly financial statements are also required to be submitted by all enter-
prises to SDK and are reviewed periodically by the banks. Nevertheless, the
banks need to supervise projects more regularly, during construction and after
they become operational, to monitor and analyze the actual results against
appraisal estimates and to take appropriate action when needed. Follow-up work
needs to be centrally coordinated at the head office for effective feed-back to
the investment and other operational departments. The banks have agreed to
organize this activity better and to strengthen (in numbers) their supervision
staff. During negotiations the four banks agreed to submit to IBRD, on or
around July 1, 1976, their plans in this regard. Supervision guidelines were
also established during negotiations at least for sub-projects financed with
the proceeds of the proposed loan.
4.16      Procurement and Disbursement.  Procedures in these respects are com-
mon to the four banks. The banks ensure that their clients adhere to legal
requirements for procurement of local and foreign equipment and for construc-
tion contracts as well. When the total value of equipment for an investment
is over Din 500,000 (about US$28,000), the selection of supplier has to be
based on a minimum of three bids obtained through public tender published in
the Official Gazette of Yugoslavia. Exceptions are allowed for specific cases
where this procedure would not be suitable. Disbursements are made on con-
tractors notes, bills, and other satisfactory evidence of services rendered or
goods supplied. Overall, procurement and disbursement methods appear to be
sound and up to standards normally expected by IBRD of development finance
companies.
4.17      Management Information  Systems. Each bank prepares, for review by
its management, monthly and (more detailed) quarterly reports of its opera-
tions and finances. These reports, however, do not as yet provide some im-
portant details, especially on the investment portfolios (see para 6.08),
due to the difficulty in collecting the relevant information from the large
number of branches and the lack of appropriate information systems. The



- 16 -
deficiencies in the banks' information systems were recognized by IBRD and by
the banks at the time of appraisal of Industrial Credit I, but improvements
have been slow because of the need to design and  mplem.ent computerized data
processing systems which are essential for efficient recording and retrieval
of the large and assorted volume of information. SBS, IBT and KBP already
have computer facilities and PBS is in the process of acquiring these. Each
bank is working on improvements in its information system but implementation
of an appropriate system is still a year or so away in each case. Specific
commitment from the banks was obtained during negotiations regarding the
setting up of appropriate information systems that would provide the usual data
on their portfolios discussed in paras 6.06-6.08.
4.18      Staff Training.  The banks arrange and finance various training and
educational programs in Yugoslavia and abroad for their staff including courses
and seminars in banking, project appraisals and foreign languages. They also
sponsor a few staff each year for university education. In June 1974, the Bank
conducted a seminar on project appraisals in Yugoslavia for the staff of the
four banks followed-up by discussions during supervision missions and exchange
of views through sub-project reviews. The Bank would continue this type of
assistance to the banks as necessary.
V. THE BANKS' OPERATIONS
5.01      The four banks perform all the functions of commercial and investment
banks, servicing all sectors of the economy. They make short-term and long-term
loans and issue guarantees for obligations of their clients incurred abroad and
in Yugoslavia. Equity investments are negligible and confined to participacion
in other financial institutions. Each bank is authorized to perform foreign
exchange transactions in connection with export and import requirements of its
clients. Also, at no risk to itself, each bank manages large amounts of funds
-n behalf of socio-political organizations in its region.
5.02      Short-Term loans.  In 1974, the four banks committed short-term loans
ranging between Din 2.9 billion (IBT) and Din 23.6 billion (PBS). Compared
with 1973, short-term lending operations of such magnitude represent increases
of 14% for KBP to 49% for PBS and a decline for IBT. The decline in IBT was
due to temporary use of short-term resources for long-term financing. Also,
during 1973-74, a part of the National Bank's short-term loans to enterprises
(through the banks) was converted into long-term loans or grants to strengthen
the liquidity of enterprises (para 2.14), thereby reducing some of their demand
for short-term funds from the banks, particularly in the case of IBT in 1974.
Annex 7 provides data on the banks' short-term loans during 1973-June 30, 1975.



- 17 -
Long-Term Loans
5.03      The four banks together committed long-term loans totalling Din 34.8
billion (about US$2.0 billion equivalent 1/) during 1973-June 30, 1975. 2/
Annex 7 shows that each of the four banks received much higher requests for
financing than they committed. Only about 10-15% of the applications to each
bank were rejected on project grounds, whereas a much larger proportion was
turned down in view of the banks' resource constraints.
5.04      With the exception of PBS, each bank's total long-term loan commit-
ments to all sectors of the economy made in 1974 exceeded substantially the
level attained in 1973, the combined increase for the four banks being 31%.
PBS' long-term loan commitments in 1974 were about the same as in 1973 but
increased at a rapid pace in the first half of 1975. For the whole year 1975,
total long-term loan commitments (all sectors) are expected to attain growth
rates varying between 18% for KBP and 39% for PBS. The high growth in total
commitments during 1974-75, reflected also in the banks' industrial loan
commitments, is accounted for partly by the inclusion of a few large projects
in energy (except for KBP) and, in part, because the international and domestic
inflation caused a significant rise in project costs. A classification of each
bank's long-term loan commitments by sector and of industrial loans by sub-sector,
size, maturity and purpose (fixed assets or working capital), together with a
brief discussion of these loan characteristics, is given in Annex 8.
5.05      As in previous years, at least 90% of each bank's commitments of
long-term loans was in domestic currency. To finance the foreign exchange
costs of investments, Yugoslav enterprises continue to rely largely on sup-
pliers' credits supplemented by their own foreign exchange resources (obtained
through quotas based on exports and granted against depreciation of fixed as-
sets). In addition, high priority projects, at times, receive special federal
quotas and can contract direct foreign loans.
5.06      Guarantees.  Guarantees issued by each bank during 1973-June 30,
1975 are shown in Annex 7. During this period, guarantees as a proportion
of the banks' short-term and long-term loan commitments amounted to about 40%
for PBS and between 10% and 20% for the other three banks. Mostly, guarantees
are given as security for foreign suppliers' credits, are medium-term, and
relate to investments in industry. Under a new federal law (1975), the banks
are required to keep the level of their guarantees and loan commitments within
the limits of their liquid investment potential as determined by the Federal
Executive Council and supervised by SDK. The law seeks to avcid problems of
project financing arising from unreliable financing arrangements that have
plagued projects in the past (para 2.14).
1/   Din 17.0 = US$1.0 (approximate average rate during the period).
2/   For each bank, commitments are considered the same as approvals.  Ap-
proved loans are rarely not committed (signed) and the time lag between
approval and commitment is minimal.



- 18 
VI. THE BANKS' FINANCIAL SITUATION
6.01      The a -o-n-tlnq Rvstem  Yu-oslavia is substantially different from
the system of western countries. Furthermore, financial statements are not
normally audited in accordance with international audit standards. Analysis
of the banks' financial statements is only partially possible in some regaru
due to informational gaps which are difficult to fill under the existing in-
formation systems of the banks. The characteristic features of the Yugoslav
accounting system and the main difficulties presented bv the banks' nresent
information systems are summarized in Annex 4. Arrangements have been made
for proper audits of the banks and the banks are also attempting to improve
their information systems (para 4.17). For the purpose of this appraisal,
financial statements of the banks for 1974 and the first half of 1975 have
been reclassified by SDK from the Yugoslav system to a format generally ac-
ceptable to the Bank. Certain adjustments in the accounts have been made to
remove inter-branch accounts and to separate commission business (managed
funds) from the other business of each bank. The reclassified and adjusted
statements are not strictly comparable to financial statements of the banks
for previous years as reported in earlier IBRD reports.
A. Resource Position
6.02      Short--Term.  Short-term resources comprise mainly the deposits
of enterorises and borrowings from the National Bank of Yugoslavia through
rediscount facilities. Prudent usage of short-term resources for long-term
investments is allowed, provided the liquidity requirements, controlled by
the National Bank, are adhered to. Generally, however, the banks restrict
the use of their short-term resources to short-term lending and, as of
June 30, 1975, thle two generally matched.
6.03      Long-Term.  A sumrmary of the long-term resource position of the
banks, as of June 30, 1975, is tabulated below and details are provided in
Annex 9.  Each bank's commitments substantially exceed its available resources.
This situation is customary for these banks as they plan their operations on
a disbursement basis rather than on a commitment basis.  Also, each bank's
overcommitments rarely exceed the resources it is fairly certain to receive
from the Federal Fund over the period in which it has to meet these commit-
ments; overcommitments are also controlled by SDK (para 5.06).



- 19 -
PBS       SBS       IBT        KBP
-Din million-----------
Long-Term Resource Position
(as of June 30, 1975)
Resources available                 21,125    23,701    8,641        11,382
Investments as per balance
sheet                            19,667    18,887    6,705        8,905
lJndisbursed resources               1,458      4,814    1,936        2,477
Undisbursed commitments              7,217      8,097    2,848       3,269
Uncommitted resources               (5,759)   (3,283)    (912)         (792)
(overcommitment)
B. Financial Performance
6.04      It is the stated policy of each bank that its income should cover all
expenses with an adequate amount of transfer to: (a) the "Reserve Fund" (sub-
stitute for provision against losses) and (b) the "Funds of the Bank as a
Working Community", which are used to acquire and maintain working facilities
and to provide some fringe benefits to the workers. Additional income genera-
tion is not a policy objective of the banks, and income surpluses, if any, are
returned to the enterprises as dividends or transferred to the founders fund
of the banks. The break-even policy is reflected in the banks' lending in-
terest rates (para 2.15) which provide the banks an average spread of about
1% over their cost of resources. Profitability ratios have therefore little
meaning in the case of these banks. Income statements of the four banks for
1974 and the first half of 1975 are provided in Annex 10 and the ratio analysis
in Annex 12.
C. Financial Position
6.05      Annexes 11 and 12 present the borrowing banks' balance sheets and
ratios on their financial structure, respectively, as of December 31, 1974
and June 30, 1975. Total assets of the banks as of June 30, 1975 ranged from
Din 9.7 billion (IBT) to Din 36.7 billion (PBS) of which the long-term port-
folios accounted for 56% (PBS) to 71% (IBT). Each bank also manages, at no
risk to itself, substantial funds on behalf of Federal and Republic Govern-
ments and socio-political organizations: from 20% (IBT) to 31% (SBS) as com-
pared to each bank's total assets. The current ratios of the banks are main-
tained at or a little above 1:1 and are satisfactory. Long-term debt/equity



- 20 -
ratios are high, particularly in case of IBT and KBP (14:1 and 17:1, respec-
tively). High debt/equity ratios do not pose a danger to the regional banks'
solvency as about 54% (PBS) to 77% (KBP) of the banks' long-term debt are loans
from federal or republic authorities: the allocation of these funds, in broad
terms, is indicated in the regional development plans; and repayments by the
banks of these loans are more or less tied to the corresponding repayments by
the enterprises to the banks, even though the banks are legally the risk
bearers.  During 1973-74, a part of such loans to enterprises was converted-
into grants and a part was transferred to the banks' managed fund accounts 1/,
simultaneously redu,cing the liability of the banks and, thereby, their debt!
equity ratios.
D. Quality of Long-Term Loan Portfolio
6.06      Each bank's arrears position as of June 30, 1975 is shown in Annex 13.
Arrears of principal and interest overdue (for more than three months) ranged
from Din 51 million (IBT) to Din 435 million (SBS), and appear higher than at
the end of 1973, for each bank, although the data for the two dates are not
strictly comparable. The most frequent cause for arrears were the depressed
markets at home and abroad and, regarding new projects, delays in project im-
plementation, often resulting from difficulties in securing resources to fi-
nance cost overruns.
6.07      As of June 30, 1975, the loans that were affected by arrears related
to the total loans outstanding (in amount) were as high as 40% and 37% for PBS
and SBS, respectively, and about 20% for IBT and KBP. Though a large portion
of each bank's long-term loan portfolio is affected by arrears, the overall
situation is manageable. First, the actual arrears of principal and interest
as percentages of the banks' loan portfolios are not large, ranging from 0.7%
(IBT) to 2.3% (SBS). Second, of the four banks only SBS had overdues of more
than Din 20 million (about US$1.2 million equivalent 2/) for any single
borrower and the majority of these were in arrears for less than six months.
Third, an analysis as to length of arrears shows that, compared to the arrears
position at the end of 1973, arrears of principal and interest overdue for
more than six months have declined for PBS and SBS; in case of IBT, arrears in
this category have risen but the total amount (Din 23 million) is small, while
for KBP the comparison cannot be made due to incomplete statistics for 1973.
1/   The amounts and portions varied from bank to bank in accordance with the
decisions of the respective regional government authorities.
2/   Din 17.0 = US$1.0 (June 30, 1975).



- 21 -
Fourth, each bank's provisions (Reserve Fund 1/) against bad debts exceeded
arrears of over three months (by 24%, SBS to 214%, TDT).  Also, none of the
four banks have experienced significant write-offs in the past 2/, and resched-
ulings have been few. Finally, the loans of the banks are adequately secured
by acceptance orders from borrowers. These acceptance orders can be exercised
through intervention of SDK, which handles all receipts and payments of enter-
prises. Through this legal instrument a bank can halt an enterprise's flow
of payments until its obligations towards the bank have been met. Of course,
the banks undertake such drastic steps only as a last resort and with due
consideration for the implications of such action.
6.08      The wide range of each bank's activities pervading a large number
of enterprises in all sectors of the economy suggests that lending operations
are reasonably diversified. However, an assessment of the extent of the
banks' exposure to large borrowers and borrowers in default could not be made
since the banks' records do not show aggregate loans to an enterprise. Further-
more, exposure data as well as financial data on borrowers were not provided to
the Bank appraisal mission on grounds of confidentiality 3/. The Bank should
normally have access to such information and assurances in this regard were
obtained during negotiations (see para 4.17). For this appraisal, the above
information is not critical since a complete evaluation of the portfolios in
any case is not feasible pending full audits of the four banks (para 6.11).
Until full audit reports, including an analysis of the banks' portfolios, are
available, the assessment of the quality of the banks' long-term loan portfolios
and arrears position must necessarily remain incomplete.
E. Audits
6.09      Under Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises are audited by the
Social Accounting Service (SDK). Normal audits by SDK do not meet the stand-
ards usually required by the Bank, but arrangements have been made for proper
audits of Bank Group projects in Yugoslavia, including audits of the banks
participating in the Industrial Credit Project. SDK has implemented a train-
ing program for its staff, with the Bank's support, to undertake such audits.
1/   Each bank is obliged to set aside from its income annually, an amount
equal to 0.5% of its loans outstanding at the year-end in a Reserve Fund
until the Reserve Fund reaches 5% of the loan portfolio. This fund has
the character of provisions against losses on loans but is not based
on a case-by-case analysis of the portfolio.
2/   Write-offs shown in income statements are minor and refer to consumer
credits.
3/   For sub-projects financed by the Bank under Industrial Credit I, however,
the banks supply full information on the borrowing enterprises.



- 22 -
6.10      A partial audit of PBS (1974 accounts) was undertaken in 1975 by the
trained staf'f of SDK (wi,th the assistance of an international firm of auditors
as consultants)- The audit covered PBS' head office and four of its larger
branches covering aboutt three-quarters of PBS' total business.  Because of the
limited scope of the audit, an audit opinion on the financial statements was
not provided, but the partial audit results generally support the analysis of
PBS' financial yosition and portfolio presented in this report.
6.11      interim audits of the 1975 accounts of SBS, IBT and KBP have also
commenced and nartial audits similar to that of PBS' 1974 accounts should be
completed in 1976, while the audit of PBS will be further extended. This is
in line with the program envisaged under the first Industrial Credit Project
except that (a) audit of SBS has been delayed by a year and (b) due to the
size and complex nature of the bank's activities and the limited number of
trained SDK staff available for such audits at present, full audits will only
be achieved after two or three years. The original targets were based only
on a partial understanding of the complexities involved in auditing the banks,
and the shortfalls from these targets should not be taken as a failure of the
audit training program in Yugoslavia The progress made by SDK in training
its staff and undertaking audits of Bank Group projects has been commendable
and its audit training program deserves the Bank's continued full support.
F. Creditworthiness of the Banks
6.12      Each of the four banks is considered creditworthy for Bank lending
(although a conventional assessment of creditworthiness is not possible
pending audits of the banks). This assessment of creditworthiness is based on
the same arguments that were accepted for Industrial Credit I which are the
following:
(a) The founders of the banks have unlimited liability for the
banks' obligations. Creditors of the banks thus have legal
recourse to all assets of founders, many of which are large
industrial enterprises with substantial assets.
(b) The banks have qualified and experienced management and staff.
Experience shows that each bank's financial management has been
adequate with no significant losses, arrears have been manage-
able, and obligations have been met satisfactorily.
(c)  The bulk of each bank's long-term debt consists of federal and
republic funds which, although treated as debt, have the
character similar to managed funds (para 6.05). The Govern-
ment authorities are very unlikely to force liquidation of the
banks in case of financial crisis because of the intimate
links between the banks and the regional economies. If bor-
rowings of federal and republic funds are excluded in the
calculations, the highest long-term debt/equity ratio amounts
to about 8:1 (IBT). Under these circumstances liquidation of
the banks is virtually inconceivable.



- 23 -
VII. PROSPECTS
A. Environment: (Draft) 1976-80 Plans
7.01      The 1976-80 (Draft) Federal and Regional Plans continue to emphasize
growth of social product, employment generation and reduction of interregional
disparities as major development objectives. As in the past, rapid industrial-
ization remains pivotal to achieving high rates of economic growth and desired
structural changes. Industrial investment is projected to grow faster in the
four LDRs, about 15% annually, than the national average, some 9%, supported
through transfers from the Federal Fund and priority allocations from foreign
resources. Industrial investment in the LDRs is projected to reach Din 121
billion, or about US$6.7 billion equivalent, during 1976-80, which appears to
be optimistic. Industrial priorities are similar in all four regions (see
para 2.09). Particular emphasis is placed on the further development of
indigenous raw materials and energy sources, sectors which require heavy capi-
tal investments. In view of the national priority of these sectors, greater
participation of the DRs in the funding of such projects is envisaged. Given
the raw material base of these regions, continued expansion of basic indus-
tries appears justified, and promotion of processing industries, also stressed
in the Plans, should afford greater employment opportunities. Prospects of
the Yugoslav economy in general and of the LDRs in particular are further
discussed in Annex 14.
B. Forecast of the Banks' Operations and Finances
7.02      The planning horizon of the four banks has hitherto been limited to
one year within the framework of their annual Business Policy (para. 4.11).
However, to facilitate the appraisal for the proposed loan, each bank prepared
five-year projections of its operations and finances based primarily on the
draft Plan (1976-80) for its region and its estimate of anticipated resources.
Projections, as given in Annexes 15-18, represent tentative estimates, requir-
ing refinements as the Plans are finalized and as the banks acquire more
experience in preparing medium-term forecasts. Medium-term planning by the
banks will continue to be encouraged by IBRD and is an objective of the pro-
posed loan.
7.03      Short-Term Lending Operations.  Short-term loans are projected to
grow at about the same rate as the social sector GMP, i.e. at about 8% a year
in constant prices, with a slightly higher percentage assumed for KBP in view
of its much lower base of short-term versus long-term lending. Increases in
short-term resources are expected to just cover short-term operations; of
the four banks, only SBS expects to use some short-term funds to finance
long-term operations.
7.04      Long-Term Lending Operations.  Projections of the banks' long-term
loans for the period 1976-80, excluding investments from managed funds, are
given in Annex 15. About half of the investments expected to be financed



- 24 -
during 1976-80 have already been identified by each bank in terms of specific
projects. Projected commitments of the banks' long-term loans often do not
show an even growth rate from year to year. In fact, because of a few very
large projects committed by SBS and IBT in 1975, projected 1976 commitments
by these two banks are lower than in the previous year. For each region, a
summary of Plan projections of investments in fixed assets in the social sec-
tor during the next five years and of the banks' aggregate long-term loans in
this period (both on disbursement basis) 1/ is given below:
Investments and Financing 1976-80
Bosnia-Herzegovina Macedonia Montenegro Kosovo Total
Total Investment
(All Sectors)
Plan Projections
(Din bill.)                    85.3           49.0        20.6    47.0   201.9
Regional Bank's Fi-
nancing (Din bill.)             29.4          25.7        10.5    27.5    93.1
(%)                      35             53          51      59       46
Industrial Investment
Plan Projections
(Din bill.)                    56.4           29.0        10.0    25.6   121.0
Regional Bank's Fi-
nancing (Din bill.)             22.5           16.9        7.0    17.1    63.5
(%)                      40             58          70      67       52
7.05      Whether the regional banks will be able to finance the projected
targets to the extent foreseen will depend essentially on two factors. First,
as estimates on investments and financing were made in constant prices, the ex-
tent of future international and domestic inflation will have a decisive influ-
ence on achieving the targets. Though some of the banks' resources (most notably
Federal Fund allocations) will increase in line with domestic inflation, others
may not. Second, even disregarding inflation, the four banks' cash flow state-
ments show sizable amounts of yet unidentified foreign and domestic resources,
the mobilization of which is uncertain (para 7.08).
7.06      Foreign Exchange Financing.  For the four regions, the average import
component of total investments in the social sector over 1976-80, is estimated
to be about 25%, with investment in industry having a somewhat higher foreign
exchange share of about 30%. On this basis the import component of industrial
1/   As the four banks' disbursements include about 15-25% working capital loans,
their total projected disbursements, given in Annex 15, have been adjusted
downwards to reflect the financing of fixed assets only.



- 25 -
investmenlt plarnned for the four regions during the period 1976-80 would total
approximately Din 36 billion.  Foreign currenicy loans b-y the banks would in-
crease substantially from their past level of about 10% of their total lend-
ing, if greater amounts of foreign resources can be mobilized by the banks
directly or through the National Bank (see para 7.08). Enterprises would,
however, continue to depend on purchases of foreign exchange from the National
Bank and on suppliers' credits for most of their foreign exchange requirements.
7.07      Target Group of Investments for IBRD Financing.  As further explained
in paras 8.01 and 8.02, IBRD lending to the four banks will be confined to
small- and medium-size industrial projects. Based on information on the banks'
investment financing in the past and their estimates for the future, the share
of such investments is likely to amount to about 20% of the four banks' indus-
trial investment financing during 1976-80. The proposed IBRD loan of US$50
million would, therefore, account for approximately 15% of the four banks'pro-
jected commitments for the target group of investments from mid-1976 to mid-
1978. 1/ Over the expected disbursement period of the proposed loan (1977-79),
IBRD financing--the proposed loan together with disbursements under Industrial
Credit I--would account for about 10% of the four banks' disbursements to the
target group of projects and about 25% of the import component of these projects.
Each bank's pipeline of small- and medium-size industrial projects qualifying
for IBRD assistance shows substantial demand for foreign exchange financing and
backs up the need for continued Bank lending to the target group of investments.
7.08      Resource Requirements.  Expected long-term resources, against which
each bank projected disbursements over the period 1976-80, are summarized in
Annex 16. Federal Fund allocations to the four banks, projected at Din 46.5
billion over the five years, would continue to provide a large share of their
resource requirements. High resource gaps are projected for each bank, pertain-
ing to domestic and foreign bororwings not yet identified, in absolute terms
(Din 5.0 billion for IBT to Din 14.8 billion for SBS) and as a portion of each
bank's total long-term resource requirements (32% for IBT to 39% for KBP).
The largest part of the unidentified resources is expected to be foreign bor-
rowings in the international capital markets, borrowed by the banks directly
or through the National Bank; the relative role of the regional banks and the
National Bank would depend on Yugoslav policy in this regard and is difficult
to predict. Unidentified resources would also include borrowings from other
Yugoslav banks and financial institutions but such borrowings are expected
to remain small in comparison with other domestic resources.
7.09      Financial Prospects.  The projected income statements and balance
sheets of the banks for 1976-80 are presented in Annexes 17 and 18. The break-
even (non-profit) orientation of each bank is expected to continue; small sur-
pluses (net income) would be allocated to the bank's working community and to
1/   The two-year period assumed corresponds with the normal commitment period
for dfc loans, although, in the present case, the loan is expected to be
committed faster.



- 26 -
the founders fund. Each bank's projected income statements and cash flow show
satisfactory debt-service coverage through 1980. The current ratios of the
banks are projected to remain at a little above 1:1. The National Bank and
the SDK are expected to continue their close surveillance of the banks'
liquidity. A continuation of the past practice of transferring resources,
from time to time, from the banks' accounts of federal and republic funds
to managed funds or to enterprises (para 6.05) would have the effect of keeping
the regional banks' debt from growing too fast in relation to their equity. In
the absence of any known definitive policy in this regard, however, possible
future transfers and grants have not been incorporated in the projected balance
sheets. Also, since the banks do not project any new contributions from enter-
prises to increase their founders funds--due to the uncertainty of the role
of such funds under the new banking legislation under consideration--the
resulting debt/equity ratios of the four banks from these projections would be
unusually high, although not very meaningful. In the context of the Yugoslav
economic system, the crucial question is not the size of the regional banks'
own funds (equity), but the financial strength of the borrowing banks in a
wider sense, as discussed in para 6.12. Under these premises the four banks
are expected to remain creditworthy also in future years.
VIII. OBJECTIVES, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND MAIN FEATURES OF THE LOAN
A. Objectives
8.01      In addition to providing foreign exchange resources to Yugoslavia,
the proposed loan to the four banks--PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP--pursues the com-
plementary objectives of (i) supporting the Yugoslavs' efforts to reduce
regional economic imbalances through the development of a modern, efficient
and competitive industrial base for the economy of the four LDRs; and (ii)
institution-building of the four banks, related essentially to their long-term
industrial operations. The dfc lending will continue to be confined to small-
and medium-size industrial projects: (a) to finance a sufficient number of
projects in order to influence the appraisal techniques of the borrowing
banks; (b) since small- and medium-size projects tend to be in relatively more
labor intensive industries (than large industrial projects which are mainly in
basic industries); and (c) because of the relative easier access of large
industrial projects to alternative sources of long-term external finance.
Financing Objectives
8.02      Under Industrial Credit I, Bank financing was limited to projects
with individual total project costs of normally up to US$5 million (exceptions
have been approved by the Bank). This normal limit has been increased to US$6
million under the proposed loan, on grounds that costs of projects have gone up
due to inflation. In cases where IBRD sub-loans are supplemented with other
foreign exchange financing (see para 8.07), projects with total costs of



- 27 -
normally up to US$10 million will also be eligible for Bank financing. The
higher limit may also allow financing of some small basic industry projects
(chemical or metallurgy), thereby extending the Bank's project appraisal
techniques directly to the borrowing banks' project staff for basic indus-
tries (who are generally different from those for processing industries).
8.03      Agro-industrial projects have been excluded for financing under the
proposed loan since such projects are being financed under other IBRD loans.
8.04      Institutional Objectives.  Institutional aspects of the banks that
will be specifically focused on by the banks and IBRD during the next couple
of years are as follows:
(a) Strengthening of project staff especially for supervision
of projects (para 4.08).
(b) Wider application of the use of financial and economic rate
of return analysis also for projects not financed by the Bank
and strengthening of project appraisals in general (para 4.14).
(c) Better organization and strengthening of project supervision
activity (para 4.15).
(d) Improvements in management information systems (para 4.17) and
implementation of proper audits (para 6.11).
(e)  Extension of the planning horizon for operations and finances
to the medium-term (about five years) from the current practice
of annual planning only for the year ahead (para 7.02).
Also, mobilization of foreign exchange resources by the banks would continue
to be a desired objective, although this would depend on the relative roles of
the regional banks and the National Bank in mobilizing foreign resources, as
determined by the Yugoslav authorities (para 7.08). All of the above objec-
tives were discussed and agreed to with the banks during appraisal and nego-
tiations.
B. Economic Justification
8.05      At the macro-level the proposed loan is justifiable from the view-
point of making available to the economy long-term financial resources at
reasonable terms to help fulfill the development plans of Yugoslavia and par-
ticularly those of the four LDRs thereby supporting the Yugoslavs in reducing
their regional economic disparities. At the micro-level an ex ante calcula-
tion of the aggregate economic rate of return for sub-projects to be financed
under the loan is clearly not possible. However, proceeds of the last Bank
loan to the four banks for similar purposes have been used to finance a wide



- 28 -
range of projects whose economic rates of return have been estimated to range
from 12% to 45% (para 3.07). Sub-proje.ts financed under the proposed loan
are exnected to yield similar returns.
C. Main Features of the Loan
8.06      Purposes.  The loan will be used to finance part or all of the for-
eign exchange costs of fixed assets and permanent working capital for eligible
and demonstrably viable industrial projects, excluding those in agro-industries.
These projects will have to conform to the "Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project" (Annex 19), which sets out the financial, economic
and other project criteria.
8.07      Loan Amount and Period of Commitment.  Over a normal commitment
period for dfc loans of two years, the banks could absorb a much higher
amount of IBRD funds than the recommended loan of US$50 million (para 7.07).
The proposed amount has been limited in view of the competing demands of
other Yugoslav projects on the necessarily limited allocation of Bank funds
to Yugoslavia. Nevertheless, the proposed loan amount, with the recommended
loan features, is considered sufficient to achieve the loan objectives.
Although the banks have agreed to make efforts to spread the use of the IBRD
loan to as many projects as practical by supplementing IBRD financing with
other foreign exchange financing (mainly suppliers' credits), the time span
of commitment of the loan is likely to be only about 18 months, due to the
heavy demand for these funds for investment projects. It has been made clear
to the Yugoslavs, however, that another Bank loan in less than two years is
unlikely. The probable time gap of about six months would not pose a serious
problem in our institution-building effort since our supervision of
the borrowers would continue without interruption.
8.08      Loan Allocation between Banks.  The allocation of the proposed loan
between the four banks for investments in their respective regions will be in
accordance with the allocation formula for the Federal Fund which takes into
account the income level and size of the four regions. This formula, which
is in accordance with the wishes of the Yugoslavs and is considered satis-
factory by the Bank, provides for the following allocation: US$16.0 million
for PBS, US$11.4 million for SBS, US$6.0 million for IBT and US$16.6 million
for KBP. 1/
Borrowers and Loan Arrangements
8.09      One Bank loan is proposed to be made to the four banks, PBS, SBS,
IBT and KBP, each of which is considered creditworthy and suitable for direct
Bank lending. The Bank will maintain one loan account for the total loan
1/   The same allocation as for Industrial Credit I.



- 29 -
while SBS, designated by the borrowers as the fiscal agent for the proposed
project, will m=aint"ain separate 102n accounts for each borrowing bank.  Ad-
ministrative functions other than those of the fiscal agent will be handled
by a joint Unit consisting of four Sub-Units, one from each bank. Each
Sub-Unit will consist of three appropriate staff members from its bank ac-
ceptable to the Bank. The Unit will be the communication link between the
banks and the IBRD with respect to the operations under the loan and other
operations of the banks. While the overall obligations of the four banks,
unless expressly undertakenL by each bank separately under the proposed loan,
will be joint and several, the liability of each bank with respect to any
payment (principal, interest, etc.) relating to the loan will be in proportion
to the participation of each bank in the loan.
8.10      Under Industrial Credit I, there were two loans, each for a pair
of banks, and a Unit for each pair. The two borrowers were PBS and SBS who
on-lent predetermined portions of the two loans to IBT and KBP, respectively.
The new arrangement for the proposed loan is an improvement since it fulfills
each bank's wish to be a direct IBRD borrower and at the same time allows IBRD
to conduct only one operation. The Bank will continue to supervise all four
banks, but working through one fiscal agent and one Unit will facilitate the
work.
8.11      Sub-loan applications to IBRD for sub-projects under the proposed
loan will be submitted directly by each of the banks. Approval of these
projects by the Unit prior to submission to IBRD, a condition under Indus-
trial Credt I, will no longer be required. This change has been made ia
recognition of the improvements in each bank's project appraisals and eacL
bank's ability to submit satisfactorily appraised projects to IBRD. Also,
coordination of projects between the regions is no longer considered an
important function for the Unit, since this function is now performed by the
Chambers of Economy (para 2.02).  The Sub-Unit from the bank submitting a
sub-loan application will ensure that the sub-loan request and the sub-project
satisfy the criteria under the proposed loan; a statement to this effect by
the Sub-Unit should accompany the sub-loan application. The Unit will advise
and (through its Sub-Units) assist each bank in the supervision of sub-projects,
but the main responsibility for supervision as well as appraisal of sub-projects
will rest with the banks individually. The main function of the Unit, as
opposed to the Sub-Units, will be to coordinate the preparation of progress
reports on the loan and on the banks' operations as well as other information
requested by IBRD from time to time, in a systematic and consistent manner.
It will also serve as the medium for an exchange of views between IBRD and the
four banks. The Unit and its Sub-Units would also take over the supervisory
and general administrative functions of the former two Units with respect to
the first Industrial Credit Project after the two Bank loans for that project
are fully committed. The composition and functions of the new Unit and
Sub-Units are described in more detail in Annex 19.



- 30 -
8.12      Sub-loan Sizes.  The banks had requested that the sub-loan ceiling
be raised frng IUJS$2 million (normal limit under Industrial Credit I) to US$3
million under the pronosed loan in view of higher project costs (para 8.02),
During negotiaitions it was agreed to set the normal ceiling at US$2.5 million.
This ceiling would ensure financing of a reasonably large number of projects
with the loi proceens and would encourage the banks to supplement IBRD funds
with other foreign exchange resources, at least in financing larger projects
(see para 8.07).
8.13      Free Limit.  In recognition of the improvements in each bank's proj-
ect appraisals and because of IBRD's generally greater confidence in these
institutions since its first appraisal of them, the free limit on individual
IBRD sub-loans has been raised from US$200,000 (Industrial Credit I) to
US$500,000. The aggregate free limit for each bank has also been raised from
around 25% to around 40% of its portion of the loan. This would allow IBRD to
review for approval an average of about four or five sub-projects per bank or
in total about one-fourth of some 60 to 80 sub-projects expected to be financed
by the proposed loan. Continuing review by the Bank of a reasonable number of
sub-projects, as above, is necessary in order that it may contribute to
further improvements in each bank's appraisals.
Loan and Sub-Loan Terms
8.14      The loan will be made on the Bank's normal terms and conditions as
applicable to DFC loans, including the standard commitment charge, with an
adjustable repayment schedule reflecting the composite repayments of sub-loans.
8.15      Individual IBRD sub-loan repayment periods will not exceed 15 years,
including grace periods normally of up to three years. 1/ To encourage blend-
ing of IBRD funds with other foreign exchange resources which are expected
to be mainly medium-term suppliers' credits (see para 8.07), grace periods on
IBRD sub-loans may be allowed up to six years depending on the merits of indi-
vidual projects and their financing package.
8.16      The on-lending interest rate to be charged by the banks on IBRD funds
has been set at 1.1% (an increase of 1-1/2% over Industrial Credit I) with the
sub-borrowers assuming the foreign exchange risk. This rate approximates
current market costs of foreign borrowings to Yugoslav investors, including
loans from IFC, and would provide the banks an adequate spread.
8.17      The final dates for submission of sub-projects and sub-loan disburse-
ments have been set at December 31, 1978 and December 31, 1980, respectively.
A schedule of estimated disbursements of the proposed loan is given in Annex 20.
1/   Sub-loan terms, based on the experience of sub-loans under Industrial
Credit I, are expected to range between eight and fifteen years with an
average term of about 12 years, including grace periods normally averag-
ing 2 years.



- 31 -
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      A loan of US$50 million is recommended to the four banks, PBS, SL..9
IBT and KBP, on the terms and conditions and with the special features de-
scribed in naras 8.06-8.17.



I                                        t
I                                         I



BASIC DATA ON
A SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRS     SBS      IBT      KBP
Year of Establishment                                 1971    1973    J06       1972
Ownership (as of June 30, 1975)
Number of founders (shareholders)                    150      342      131     128
Founders funds (Din million)                       2,149   1,822       342     479
Long-Term Resource Position (as of June 30, 1975)   ----- Din Million---------
Equity funds                                       2,149   1,822       342     479
Borrowings:
Federal ana Republic funds                   11,851  11,530   4,412   8,933
Other                                          2,827   6,488   3,100   1,605
Long-term deposits                                 4,298   3,861       787     365
Total resources                             21,125  23,701   8,641  11,382
Investment portfolio                              19,667  18,887   6,705   8,905
Undisbursed long-term resources                    1,458   4,814   1,936   2,477
Undisbursed commitments                            7,217   8,097   2,848   3,269
Uncommitted long-term
resources (shortfall)                           (5,759) (3,283)   (912)   (792)
Operations (1974)                                    -----------Din Million-----------
Commitments
Total
Short-term                                        23,624  16,105   2,930   3,796
Long-term                                          3,592   6,918   1,421   3,454
Guarantees                                         8,849   3,138       901   1,738
Industry
Short-term                                         n.a.    6,376   2,257   1,213
Long-term                                          2,169   5,265       611   2,421
Guarantees                                         8,037   1,445       802   1,094
Disbursements (Long-term loans)
Total                                              4,668   3,592   1,350   2,468
Industry                                           2,513   2,256       833   1,364



Financial Ratios (1Q74)
Gross income/average total assets (%)               7.0      6.6      7.9      5.1
Net inconnmPa17ernPe equity (%)                    10.9    10.9    10.0    14.0
Long-term debt (LTD)/equity                         5.8:1   7.7:1  14.3:1  14.2:1
LTD other than Federal and Republic
fhnds/equity                                                         7.2:1   3.i:
Interest Rates (Long-term loans)                      ---------------%-------------
Loans from Federal Fund resources                                   4-6
Loans from the bank's own resources                                 8-11
Foreign exchange loans                                              8-11
Commission on Managed Funds and Guarantees                        0.25-1.5
EMENA/IC & DFC
May 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Plan Implementation In Less Developed Regions During 1971-75 1/
1.         Bosnia-Herzegovina.  Plan implementation fell short of projected
targets. Real GMP increased by an average of 7.8% a year compared with a 9%
planned growth. This rate, however, is above the national 6% GMP growth. The
social product of industry grew at 9.1% (projected growth 10%), which again is
higher than the 8.5% attained for Yugoslavia. The share of industry to GMP
rose from 37.7% in 1970 to 40.6% in 1975. Total fixed investment grew at 7.4%
per annum compared with the 9.2% projected rate. Industrial investment in-
creased by 11.3%, well below the planned rate of 22%, due to time and cost
overruns and lack of funds resulting from world and domestic inflation, low
rates of enterprise savings, and limited bank funds. Industrial performance
was marred by delays in completion of steel, aluminum and chemical plants, dif-
ficulties in obtaining parts and components, and shortages of imported interme-
diate inputs for the chemical industries. Wood industries operated with out-
of-date equipment while light industries suffered from unbalanced capacities
and underutilization of facilities. As a result, productivity and efficiency
suffered. Industrial exports rose by 10% per annum in real terms, with leading
exportables being metal products, chemicals, wood products, pulp, ferrous and
non-ferrous products, textiles, leather and footwear. Exports fell short of
the projected annual increase of 14%, in part due to the world recession. Em-
ployment increased by 4.7%, exceeding the planned growth of 4%. Unemployment
grew faster, however, and reached 10% of labor force; 2/ this was mainly due to
the reflux of emigrant workers.
2.         Macedonia.  During the past five years, real GMP grew at an average
annual rate of 7.4%. Although in line with historical trends, this growth rate
was below the 9.2% projected in the Plan but above the national average (6%).
Fixed investment increased by about 10% annually compared with the planned rate
of 11%, but industrial investment remained stagnant during 1971-74; it more than
doubled in 1975, reaching Din 3 billion.  About one-half of industrial invest-
ment was absorbed by the energy and basic metals sectors. Industrial production
grew at 8.3%, considerably below the 12.5% forecast. Technical and managerial
problems in the ferrous industry, and adverse world market conditions in the
wood, electrical equipment, and metal products industries, were major factors
that contributed to this shortfall. Industrial exports expanded by 7.7% (in
real terms) compared with the 12.5% forecast. The most important exports in-
clude ferrous and non-ferrous products, electrical equipment, metal products,
1/ In 1975 the LDRs accounted for 40% of the area, 35% of the population, but
only 22% of the GMP of Yugoslavia.
2/ Unemployment statistics in Yugoslavia include persons actually unemployed as
well as those currently employed but seeking new jobs. This tends to inflate
unemployment rates



ANNEX 1
Page 2
chemicals, textiles, leather and footwear, and tobacco. Employment increased
by 3.8%, in accordance with forecast rates, but the unemployment rate edged
up to about 20% of labor force. Real personal incomes showed very small im-
provement -- only an increase of 1% a year.
3.          Montenegro.  Montenegro's performance fell much short of the
Plan's targets. Real GMP grew at an estimated 5.4% per annum, well below the
projected 9.5%, as a result of the low level of investment and consumption.
Gross fixed investment grew at an estimated 2.5% a year in real terms com-
pared with a projected 10%. Similarly, consumption fell about 20% below the
projected level. High price increases led to delays in the completion of a
number of industrial projects due to cost overruns and lack of funds. The
rate of enterprise accumulation increased by 9%, well below the projected 15%
growth rate. Structural imbalances, underutilization of capacity and short-
age of technical managerial staff created additional difficulties. As a re-
sult, industrial production increased at an annual rate of 6.7% compared to
the planned 12%. Productivity gains were very low, just over 1%. Employment
grew at 4.7% per annum; but unemployment rose much faster, as in the case of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, and accoanted for about 13% of labor force in 1975. Indus-
trial exports, adversely affected by the world recession, expanded by 17% per
annum compared with a projected growth of 21%. Real personal incomes increas-
ed by 1.5% annually, slightly over productivity gains,
4.          Kosovo.  During 1971-75, industrial production failed to meet
forecast growth rates; it grew by 11.7% compared with a planned 19.6% annual
rate. Production of coal, non-ferrous minerals, non-metalic minerals, chemi-
cals, construction materials, synthetic rubber, wood and food processing, tex-
tiles and tobacco was well below forecast growth rates. To some extent, the
Plan's targets appear to have been overly optimistic. But the shorfall in in-
dustrial production is also related to the much lower than projected growth of
industrial investment. The latter increased by 6.8%, or about one-half of the
level planned. There were delays in project preparation, in deliveries of im-
ported equipment and in construction. Delays in completion were also due to
lack of funds, resulting from the unprecedented price increases and the atten-
dant cost overruns and low accumulation rates by enterprises. Other drawbacks
included unbalanced capacities, problems of staffing, lack of market research
and marketing, underutilization of capacities. Industrial exports also fell
short of the projected 11.5% annual increase. As a result of these develop-
ments, real GNP grew at 8.4% per annum compared with the targeted 13.6%. Pro-
ductivity increased by 7% (planned 8.4%) and employment by 6.4% (forecast
7.4%); the rise in unemployment of 5.4% was the lowest among the LDRs but the
unemployment rate of about 22% of labor force is still the highest amongst all
regions of Yugoslavia.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Economic and Social Characteristics of the
Less Developed Regions
Pattern of Regional Investment, 1973
(Social Sector)
Investment      Investment       Fed. Fund Receipts /3
Rate     /1  Per Capita /2   as % of Investment
Bosnia-Herzegovina                  29               90               29.0
Montenegro                          39              131               39.1
Macedonia                           24               78               20.5
Kosovo                              32               51               73.8
Less Developed Regions              29               84               20.0
Developed Regions                   19              109
Yugoslavia                          21              100 (average)
/1 Investment as percentage of total social product. Private investment
(mostly for housing) comes to about one-half of social sector investment
for the country as a whole.
/2 Despite oscillations between years, the pattern has remained essentially the
same.
/3  The transfer of resources for investment from the DRs has been institutionalized
following the policy of decentralization. The Federal Fund for the Accelerated
Development of Less Development Regions remains the major source of inter-republic
resource transfers to these regions. Each republic contributes 1.94% of its
social product for allocation by the Fund. The resources, obtained through
compulsory enterprise loans decreed by the republics, are lent to intermediating
banks in the less developed regions for 15 years, 3 years of grace and at 4%
interest. For loans to Kosovo, repayment is over 18 years, 3 years of grace and
3% interest rate. The banks, in consultation with republic governments, determine
the on-lending terms to final borrowers. In general, the policy has been to
pass on the concessionary terms to final users. Federal budgetary grants for
current social services expenditures in the poorer republics is another major
source of funds.
Source: IBRD, Problems and Policies of Regional Development in Yugoslavia, March 26, 1975
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Regional Structure of Unemployment /1
1971    1972    1973    1974
1973        1974               Unemployment as percentage
Unemployment                     of total labor force
(Tn thousands)
Bosnia-Herzegovina                  49           68               5.8     6.3      7.8      9.9
Montenegro                          10           14               5.7      6.3     9.9    12.8
Macedonia                           68           79              17.4    17.2    18.6    20.2
Kosovo                              31           34              19.7    18.5    21.4    21.5
Slovenia                            11            9               2.6     2.2      1.8      1.4
Croatia                             54           55               4.1     4.4      5.0      4.9
Vojvodina                           40           45               6.2      7.0     8.5      9.2
Serbia (excluding
autonomous regions)              119         145                8.0     8.3    10.1    11.5
Total                 382          449               6.6      7.1     8.5      9.2
/1 Unemployment is measured in terms of job-seekers registered at Employment Offices; the
category of job-seekers includes persons actually unemployed as well as those currently
employed but seeking new jobs.
a.z
Source:  Indeks.
EMENA/IC & DFC
February 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Regional Disparities in Per Capita income and Operational Features, 1973
Social Product Index /I  GNP (US$) /2            Social Sector
1954     1964      1973        1973       COR /3   PL. /4  UI.C 1.   AP /6
Bosnia-Herzegovina                              82       69        66         696       113        86       11(        78
Montenegro                                      53       72        71         750       126        88       104        68
Macedonia                                       69       73        70         736       108        80       105        83
Kosovo                                          48       37        37         348       140        78       105         5
Less Developed Regions (LDRs)                   71       65        61         648       115        84       108        76
Developed Regions (DRs)                        110      118       122       1,418        96       105        98       108
Yugoslavia (average = 100)                     100      100       100       1,062       100       100       100       100
/1  Calculated on the bases of current prices; Yugoslavia average = 100.
/2 GNP per capita Yugoslavia computed according to World Bank Atlas methodology (1972-1974 basis); regional
data computed by applying social product per capita differences to the country average.
/3 COR = Capital/Output Ratio (output per unit of accumulated past investment)
/4 PL = Productivity of Labor (social product per worker)
/5  ULC =  Unit Labor Cost.  (ratio of indices of average net workers' income and average labor productivity)
/6  AR = Accumulation Rate.  (depreciation plus undistributed profits as a percentage of fixed assets)
Source:  IBRD, Problems and Policies of Regional Development in Yugoslavia, March 26, 1975
EMENA/IC&DFC
January, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 4
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Sectoral Structure of Economy by Region, 1971
(Percent of Fixed Assets)
Heavy                              Other
Industries /1      Transport       Activities
Bosnia-Herzegovina                  44                  18              38
Montenegrc                          38                  29              33
Macedonia                           21                  17              62
Kosovo                              48                  13              39
Less-developed Regions              39                  19              42
Developed Regions                   25                  21              54
Yugoslavia                          28                  21              51
/1  Heavy industries comprise: power, coal, petroleum, ferrous and
non-ferrous metallurgy, and pulp and paper.
Source: IBRD, Problems and Policies of Regional Development in
Yugoslavia, March 26, 1975.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



AN-NEX 3
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
The Banks' Borrowing and Lending Rates
The interest rate structure shown below refers
to the.costs of resources and relending rates of PBS.
With minor exceptions, interest rates of SBS, IBT and KBP
are the same. Generally, the banks try to achieve an average
spread on resources (including foreign) of about 1%.
Cost of Resources                                     _
Short-and medium-term
Demand deposits         /1                        6 - 7.5
Public savings accounts                          7.5- 10
Deposits by enterprises                               3.5
Long-term
/2
Federal Fund resources                                  4
Republic funds                                        2-4
Other domestic resources                              5-9.5
Foreign borrowings                                    7-10
Lending Rates
Short- and medium-term
Loans to enterprises                                 10
Consumer loans                                       12.5
Deposits with National Bank                           3
Long-term
Federal Fund resources                                4-6
Loans from the bank's own resources                   8-11
Foreign exchange loans                                8-11
Commission Fee on Managed Funds                           ,.25
Commission Fee on Guarantees                             0.25- 1.5
/1 Including foreign exchange deposits of Yugoslav workers abroad
/2 3% for KBP



ANNEX 4
Page 1
Y-UGwSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
The Banks' Legal Framework and Accounting System
I.  LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1.        The basic legal framework under which Yugoslav banks operate is
provided by the Federal Banking Law of December 1971 and each bank's statutes.
Major provisions of this law anid of the statutes of the proposed IBRD borrowers--
PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP--are the following:
(a) A bank cannot be founded by fewer than 25 founders; the
minimum conditions of joining and withdrawals of founders
are prescribed by the statutes.
(b) A bank must have a minimum of Din 50 million as founders fund
(capital). Prior to 1975, a founder could have up to 10% of
the total voting rights depending on his share in the founders
fund, but now each founder has one vote.
(c)  The founders of a bank have an unlimited liability in respect
of the bank.
(d)  The bank's statutes prescribe the powers of the various manage-
ing organs. The bank Assembly consisting of representatives
of the fournders is the highest governing body of the bank.
(e) The Assembly appoints the bank's chief executive and members
of the Executive Board and Credit Board.
(f) The Assembly approves the bank's annual business policy and
the policy on interest rates and decides on the allocation
of income to reserves and the distribution to the bank's
working commurity (in aggregate) and founders.
(g) Banks are required to make a yearly appropriation to a Reserve
Fund out of income, of at least 0.5% of loans outstanding at
the year-end. This fund can be used only for writing-off bad
debts and5 temporarily, for meeting the bank's obligations in
case of tight liquidity. The resources of this fund have to
be generally maintained in liquid or semi-liquid funds.
(h) Banks are required to write-off bad debt first against income.
Write-offs against the Reserve Fund are only possible to the
extent that there is insufficient income.
(i) A bank will be liquidated if it is unable to meet its obligations
for more than six months.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(j) In case of liquidation, the deposits of individuals with
the bank have priority over all other creditors of the
bank. (In addition, such deposits of individuals are also
guaranteed by the Federal Government under a separate law.)
2.        In addition to the Banking Law, the banks have to comply with various
regulations and directives issued by the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the
Federal Government. The main directives which have a direct implication on
the banks' financial operations are:
(a) Liquidity Requirements. The banks have to maintain a certain
proportion of their demand deposits (currently ranging from 2%
of domestic savings accounts to 24% of enterprises' giro deposits)
as deposits with the National Bank. The primary purpose is to
ensure adequate liquidity of banks but the measure is also used
as a tool for implementing monetary policy.
(b) Foreign Exchange Regime. Only authorized banks can undertake
foreign exchange transactions under supervision of the National
Bank. PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP are so authorized. When making a
foreign exchange loan to an enterprise, a bank has to ensure
that the borrower will be in a position to generate sufficient
foreign exchange funds (through retention quotas against depre-
ciation and exports, and special quotas) to repay the loan.
The banks are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange
at the Belgrade foreign exchange market. All foreign borrowings
are regulated by the National Bank and have to be registered
with it prior to and after the borrowing is contracted.
(c) Limitations Regarding Banks' Overall Commitments. Under a Federal
law, passed in the second half of 1975, a bank is required to keep
the level of commitments of guarantees and investment loans within
the limits of its liquid investment potential. Under the law, the
Federal Executive Council shall specify which resources shall
constitute a bank's liquid investment potential and the conditions
under which guarantees can be made. It is intended that banks
shall report periodically to SDK the status of their liquid invest-
ment potential and obligations incurred, while SDK, in turn, shall
inform the Federal Executive Council. The law seeks to tighten the
financial management of investments and affects, aside from banks,k
enterprises, socio-political organizations, communities of common
interest, agricultural cooperatives, etc.
II. ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
3.        The accounting system  in Yugoslavia is substantially different from
the system of western countries. In preparing periodic balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenditures, and other financial reports, the four banks
do not adhere strictly to generally accepted accounting principles. The major
differences in the system and the difficulties in reconciling these differences
are summarized below:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(a) The branches of the banks being autonomous units in themselves,
prepare their own balance sheets and income statements. In
consolidating statements for a bank as a whole, the individual
balance sheet items of its branches are often added up without
eliminating inter-branch entries.
(b) The banks' accounts of resources and operations include funds
managed by them on behalf of local authorities (socio-political
organizations) at no risk to the banks. Such operations on
commission basis have to be eliminated from the main body of
the banks' balance sheets.
(c) Short-term loans have maturities of up to two years and data
on loans with less than one year maturity (current assets)
is not kept separately. It'is therefore not possible to
separate current and long-term positions strictly according
to normal accounting definitions.
(d) Accounts are maintained for each loan made by a bank differ-
entiated by purpose and/or source of funds (e.g. loan for
fixed assets or for working capital and loan from Federal funds,
Republic funds, etc.). A borrower may have as many as 100 such
loans outstanding, maintained in the branches or the head
office of the bank. No routine record is presently kept of
total exposare to any one borrower and, because of the large
number of accounts involved, compilation of such information
is a formidable job.
(e) The banks, operating as commercial and investment banks to their
clients, observe strict confidentiality as regards financial
information received from their clients. They cannot disclose
the annual income and balance sheets of the clients to any out-
sider (including the IBRD) without the consent of the clients
themselves.
(f) The banks do not attempt generally to make a periodic assessment
of potential losses within their loan portfolios. Annual
appropriations to the Reserve Fund can be considered as provisions
against losses but are not the result of a case-by-case review
of their loans outstanding (para 1 (g)).
(g) The appropriation for reserves is not treated as, an expense item
in determining a bank's net income. The banks, however, are
required by law to write-off, against income, 25% (current rate)
of their total uncollected interest overdue by 45 days or more
at the end of a year.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA-INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (11)
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
IWORKERS  t1X~TVECEI
|COUNCIL   l|BOARD                                                                   ll BOARD           l
I  PRESIDENT;  |                 | INTERNAL
GENERAL                             AUDIT &
MANAGER                            INSPECTION
SECTOR FOR           SECTOR FOR              INVESTMENT            FOREIGN               SECTOR                   ECONOMIC             ACCOUNTING,            21-BRANCHES
DOMESTIC             TRANSACTIONS            SECTOR                BUSINESS              INTER BANK              RESEARCH &            LEGAL &                3- RESIDENT
RESOURCES            WITH INDIVI-              (39)                TRANSACTIONS          TRANSACTIONS            FOLLOW-UP             ADMINISTRATIVE         OFFICES ABROAD
(301              DUALS                                        SECTOR                     (11)                SECTOR               SECTOR                     (605)
_10)                                         (441                                        (Oll                     (2E)
RESOURCE              TRANSAC-               BASIC                 CRED3ITS &            INTER BANK              PROJECT               PERSONNEL &
MOBILIZA-             TIONS WITH             INDUSTRIES            GUARANTEES            COOPERATION             FOLLOW-UP             ORGANIZATION
TION                  INDIVIDUALS              18{
CREDIT                                       PROCESSING             YUGOSLAV
PLANNING            INFORMATION              INDUSTRIES             FOREIGN              COMMISSION               ECONOMIC                 LEGAL
& RECORDS            & ADVERTISING           & FORESTRY             EXCHANGE             TRANSACTIONS             ANALYSIS
(I11)               MARKET
DISBURSE-                                   AGRICULTURE              FOREIGN                                                             ACCOUNTING
MENT &                                      & FOOD PRO-              EXCHANGE
LOANS                                       CESS1NG                  MARKETSTITCS&DA
COLLECTION                                 |     5)                  ABROAD                                                              PROCESSING
TRADE, CATER-
ING & TRANS-                                                                                 COMMUTERS
PORTRTION                                                                                    CENTER
|     (7)                      NUMBER OF STAFF 16130175)
Professional  Total
ENGINEERING
& TECHNICAL               Heed Office               180          435                        ADMINISTRA-
GROUP                     Branches and Resident Offices   60S   2,854                       TIVE
17)  Total                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERVICES
I  (7)                  T Ttal                    791         3,289                     1      _       IN|
Note: Figures in brackets give number of professional wtaff( (defined as those with a minimum of two years
college education)
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1                                                                                                                                                             Werld Bank-15720






AMNEX 5
Page 2
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (11)
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
WORKERS                                              EXECUTIVE             CREDIT
COUNCIL                                               BOARD                BOARD
ADVI YGENERAL                                        INTERNAL
ADVISORY                  MANAGER &                  AUDIT &
COUNCIL                   DEPUTY                     INSPECTION
SECTOR                   INVESTMENT                FOREIGN              ACCOUNTING             22-BRANCHES
FOR DOMESTIC            SECTOR                     BUSINESS             LEGAL &                4-RESIDENT
RESOURCES                    (36)                  SECTOR               ADMINISTRATION            OFFICES ABROAD
(24)              .__                               (34)           ._SECTOR                          (278)
RESOURCE    l            AGRICULTURE |           FOREIGN       l       :ACUTN
MOBILIZATION         _       (12)               BORROWING                 ACONTN
SHORT-TERM               INDUBSTIC E   lS        FOREIGN       l        |BUSINESS       l
o    LOANS                        (8)               EXCHANGE                ORGANIZATION
|TRANSACTIONS |         PROCESSING    l           FOREIGHNG      l             LEA       l
INDIVIDUALS  |         OTHER SECTORS            |DISBURSEMENTS|            
a  STATISTICS h           | DISBURSEMENT   a  R                             GENERAL O
Totl                            40l,6
EMN/C& ANLSSOFCLCINADIITA
J   ENGINEERING 1                                                         W
L& TECHNICAL || COMPUTERl
GROUP          l                                    SERVICES l
(4)                                         ll
Note:                                           NUMBER OF STAFF (6130/75)
Figures in brackets give number                               Poesoa           oa
of professional staff (defined         Head Office               128           349
as those vvith a minimum of tvvo      Branches and Resident Offices  278     1,216
years college education).
Total                     406         1,565
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976                                                                                            World Bank-15721






ANNEX 5
Pa,c 3
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (11)
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
WORKERS                                           EXECUTIVE            CREDIT
COUNCIL                                           BOARD                BOARD
GENERAL
MANAGER
SECTOR FOR              INVESTMENT               FOREIGN              LEGAL &               8-BRANCHES
DOMESTIC                SECTOR                   BUSINESS            ADMINISTRATION         2-RESIDENT
RESOURCES AND                (25)                SECTOR              SECTOR                   OFFICES ABROAD
ACCOU(1N5T) ING     _                      _        (17)                    (9)                    (50)
RESOURCE   BASIC                  ~~~~FOREIGN
MOBILIZATION           INDUSTRIES             RESOURCE                    LEGAL
(6)               MOBILIZATION
TRANSACTIONS           PROCESSING             FOREIGN
- WITH              -  INDUSTRIES             EXCHANGE                  PERSONNEL
INDIVIDUALS                 (5)               DISBURSEMENTS
DISBURSE-              OTHER                  FOREIGN                 ADMINISTRA-
_ MENT &            < SECTORS                 EXCHANGE                TIVE
COLLECTiON                  (5J               MARKETS                 SERVICES
-| ACCOUNTING  |    -4 SHORT-TERM   <                              _l TiORGAN IZA-
& RECORDS  LOANS                                    ~~~~~~~~~TION STAFF
(3)                           ~~~~~~~~RELATIONS
| COMPUTER    l      | ENGINEERING 1                                 i INTERNAL
SERVICES               & TECHNICAL  IAUDIT &
SERVICES  l  1 GROUP  |                      | INSPECTION
NUMBER OF STAFF (6/30/75)
Professional   Total
Head Office              68           165
Branches and Resident Offices  50     312
Total                   118           477
Note: Figures in brackets give number of professional staff (defined as those with a minimum of two years
college education).
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976                                                                                       World Bank-15722






YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (11)
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
WORKERS                                                               EXECUT
OUNCIL~~~~~~~~~~~~ BOARD                                        ll BOARD
ADISR                           MANAGERNAL
COUNCIL ~ ~ OUCI                                                 ADI 
SECTOR                  INVESTMENT               FOREIGN            SECTOR FOR LOAN          LEGAL &                ACCOUNTING &           11-BRANCHES
FOR DOMESTIC           SECTOR                    BUSINESS           SERVICE &               ADMINISTRATION          DATA PROCESSING        1-RESIDENT
RESOURCES                  (20)                  SECTOR             TRANSACTIONS             SECTOR                        (4)                OFFICE ABROAD
(6)                                           ( 11)           WITH INDIVIDUALS              (6)                                            (102)
(5)
INDUSTRY, CON-          RESOURCES,             TRANSACTIONS                                   ACCOUNTING-
RESOURCE              STRUCTION &CRDT                                 WIHLGLBN
MOBILIZATION          TRANSPORTA-              GUARANTEES             INDIVIDUALS                                     OEAIN
AGICULTURE                                                                                    ACCOUNTING-
SHORT-TERM             & FOOD                  EXCHANGE               DISBURSEMENT            BUSINESS
LOANS                  PROCESSING              CONTROLS               COLLECTION              ORGANIZATION            COLLERSI      l
j OTHER      l      jDISBURSEMENTS             STATISTICS              STAFFCOMPUTER
SECTORS          & COLLECTIONS            & ANALYSIS             RELATIONS               CENTER
ENGINEERING            ACCOUNTING                                     GENERAL
& TECHNICAL  SERVICES                               ~~~~~~~SERVICES
NUMBER OF STAFF (1/1/75)                                                                     D 70
Note:                                                                               Professional    Total                                                           -|
Figures In brackets give number of professional staff     Head Office              58           147
(defined as those with a minimum of two years college education).  Branches and Resident Offices 102  414
EMENA/IC & DFC                                                Total                    160           561
January 1976                                                                                                                                       World Bank-- ,723






ANNEX 6
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
The Banks' Role in the Project Cycle
and the Quality of their Project Appraisals
Project Cycle
1.        Investment projects are prepared by the investors (enterprises) gene-
rally with the assistance of expert consultants. The investor -establishes
contact with appropriate Government officials (the regional Chamber of Economy
and the Secretariat for Industry) for their advice and preliminary screening of
the project at an early stage of project preparation. Contact with the business
bank that is expected to finance the project is maintained throughout, and
although the bank does not get involved deeply in project preparation, it can
have a role in moulding the project. Once the project is prepared, an application
is submitted to the bank for financing. Before the bank undertakes appraisal of
the project, however, it has a fair idea of whether or not the project would be
approved by at least the regional Chamber of Economy if not also at the federal
level. The appraisal of the project by the bank takes generally between 2 - 12
months depending on the size and complexity of the project. For large and/or
complex projects, the banks seek the services of consultants (from universities
and technical institutes). Final approval of the Chamber of Econonty is based
on the availability of financing for the project including financing by the bank
(although the financing arrangement is required to be registered with the SDK.
For this purpose, the banks often guarantee to SDK the investor's portion of
project financing in addition to their own loan commitment.
Banks' Project Appraisals
2.        The main weaknesses identified in the four banks' project appraisals
during IBRD's first appraisal of the banks, at the end of 1973, were the
marketing, financial and economic analyses of projects. It was also felt that
the banks paid inadequate attention to escalation and contingency allowances in
estimating project costs. While there is still room for improvement in the
banks' project appraisals, their recent appraisal reports show considerable im-
provement over previous ones.
3.        Market analysis remains a weak link in the bankst project appraisals.
In the past, most projects found a ready market and, therefore, market analy-
sis was relatively unimportant.       As a result, development of market data
sources did not receive adequate attention. There is a growing appreciation
among the Yugoslavs for strengthening market analysis of projects, and better
sources of data are being developed (primarily, the Federal Institute for Market
Research -- Zit, Belgrade). Matching of supply and demand and avoidance of
wasteful capacity in the total Yugoslav system is also hoped to be achieved
through screening of projects at the regional and federal levels by the Chambers
of Economy.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        Cost overruns and shortfalls in financing of projects in the past
have brought about federal and regional directives stressing the need to make
adequate escalation allowances in project cost estimates. High inflation in
recent years has, of course, exacerbated the problem of cost overruns. The
banks are paying increased attention to this aspect in their project appraisals,
although escalation and contingency allowances still tend to be on the low side.
The Bank should continue emphasizing the importance of this aspect in project
appraisals.
5.        Each bank has made considerable progress in the application of improved
financial and economic analytical techniques in project appraisals.  Financial
Rate of Return (FRR) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) analyses have been applied
for projects financed under Industrial Credit I. All four banks are convinced
of the merits of the FRR analysis and plan to adopt this technique gradually for
their other projects as well; to a small extent, they have already started doing
so. Some of the banks' clients (enterprises) have also become familiar with,
and have started applying, FRR analysis in the preparation of projects. The
banks are less convinced on the usefulness of the ERR analysis claiming that the
differences between financial and economic costs for most industrial projects in
Yugoslavia are low. They have, however, agreed to continue the ERR analysis for
IBRD financed sub-projects to test the validity of their claim on a larger sample
of projects. Meanwhile, the banks are not required to calculate the ERR for those
projects for which the FRR is satisfactory and it can be demonstrated that the
ERR would be higher than the FRR without actually calculating the ERR. The banks
also use other criteria to gauge economic benefits such as employment generation,
development of less developed regions, utilization of domestic raw material, etc.
Further strengthening and application of financial and economic analyses in the
banks' project appraisals continues to be one of the institution-building
objectives of the IBRD loan.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 7
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Summary of Operations: 1973-June 30, 1975
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
APPLICATIONS                    COMMITMENTS                     DISBURSEMENTS
1973    1974        1975        1973    1974        1975        1973    1974         1975
All Sectors                                         (Jan.-June)                      (Jan.-June)                     (Jan.-June)
PBS
Short-term loans              18,131  25,202       n.a.       15,820  23,624        n.a.       15,805  20,853       n.a.
Long-term loans                3,458   9,679      6,620        3,705   3,592       3,432        3,312   4,668      2,412
Guarantees                     9,938   8,977      5,053        9,863   8,849      4,080           -       -          -
SBS
Short-term loans              13,551  17,083    10,198        12,253  16,105       8,609       12,253  16,105      8,588
Long-term loans                8,479  13,439      7,985        5,272   6,918       2,415        2,873   3,592      1,766
Guarantees                     1,293   3,212      2,072        1,250   3,138       2,032          727      331       437
IBT
Short-term loans               4,351   3,740      3,180        3,677   2,930      2,724         3,507   2,721      3,180
Long-term loans                2,775   7,420      4,021          900   1,421         778        1,073   1,350      4,021
Guarantees                       994     901      4,450          986      901        326          -       -          -
KBP
Short-term loans               3,520   3,907      3,352        3,311   3,796      2,148         2,931   3,796      2,019
Long-term loans                4,506  10,725      6,157        1,826   3,454       1,102        2,064   2,468      1,382
Guarantees                       842   1,738        165          842   1,738         165          -       378        146
Industry
PBS
Short-term loans             n.a.    n.a.         n.a.        n.a.    n.a.        n.a.        n.a.    n.a.        n.a.
Long-term loans              4,824   7,015       4,701       2,498   2,169       2,738       1,653   2,513       1,445
Guarantees                   n.a.   8,173        4,065        n.a.   S,037        3,597         -       -          -
SBS
Short-term loans            5,412   6,741        5,034       4,931   6,376       4,577       4,931   6,376       4,577
Long-term loans              6,390   9,477       3,410       3,282   5,265        1,835       1,550   2,256      1,267
Guarantees                     556   1,475       1,568         539   1,445        1,548         120     243        198
IBT
Short-term loans             3,270   2,880       2,426       2,868   2,257       2,097       2,630   2,066       1,934
Long-term loans              1,245   6,520       3,435         622      611         152         514     833        295
Guarantees                     242     802       3,965         242      802         319         -       -          -
KBP
Short-term loans             1,852   1,525       1,341       1,696   1,213       1,074       1,696   1,213       1,074
Long-term loans              3,342   8,457       5,044       1,063   2,421          958      1,273   1,364         864
Guarantees                     536   1,094         132         536   1,094          132         -       346        194
ENENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Loan Characteristics
Classification of Long-Term Loans By Sectors:
1973-June 30, 1975 (Commitments)
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
PBS                SBS                 IBT                KBP
COMMITMENTS        COMMITMENTS        COMMITMENTS         COMMITMENTS
Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount    %         Amount    %
1.  Industry & Mining                     7,405   69.0      10,382   71.1       1,385   44.7        4,442   69.6
2.  Agriculture & Forestry                  691    6.4       1,943   13.3          230    7.4         706   11.1
3.  Construction                            342    3.2          51    0.4          -       -            54    0.9
4. Transport & Public
Utilities                            963    9.0          804    5.5         784   25.3          683   10.7
5.  Trade & Catering                        822    7.7         892    6.1          506   16.3          308    4.8
6.  Arts & Crafts                           143    1.3         261    1.7          -        -           21    0.3
7. Non Economic and
Other                                  363    3.4         272    1.9          194    6.3         168    2.6
Total                           10,729  100.0       14,605  100.0       3,099  100.0        6 382  100.0
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNLX d
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Classification of Long-Term Loans to Industrial Sector
1973-1974 (Commitments)
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
PBS                   SBS                   IBT                    KBP
No.     Amount        No.      Amount       No.      Amount        No.     Amount
A.  By Industrial Sub-Sectors
Coal, coke and energy                                578                 1,969                    668                   147
Metallurgy                                         1,059                 2,189                    145                   667
Non-metallic minerals                                100                    507                   -                     497
Metal products                                       535                    312                    55                   551
Electrical equipment                                 196                    299                    19                   106
Chemicals                                            334                    779                     7                   247
Construction material                                222                   246                     14                   136
Wood products                                        551                    475                    82                   113
Pulp and paper                                        12                     16                    10                    12
Printing and publishing                               37                    108                     8                   250
Textiles                                             509                    661                    43                   253
Leather and leather
products                                            68                   123                     15                     8
Rubber                                                11                   -                       10                   303
Food processing and
tobacco                                            442                   802                     86                   194
Other                                                 13                     61                    71                   -
Total                               4,667                  8,547                 1,233
B. By Size (Din mill.)
0 - less than 1                         212          60        83           68         5          22        12           12
1 - less than 10                        377         878       475       1,635          7         148        65          305
10 - less than 20                         76         533        93          960        12         278        12          266
20 - less than 50                         77       1,899         33       1,105         7         148
50 - less than 100                         5         292         14       1,023         9         270   )   40         2,901
100 and over                               6       1,005         12       3,756        11         367   )   _
Total                     753       4,667        710       8,547                              129       3,484
C. By Maturity
1 - less than  3 years                   45          70        17          57          1          11       -           -
3 - less than  5 years                  111         216        36         189          3          35       -           -
5 - less than 10 years                  492       2,432       516       5,159         16         238        11         382
10 - less than 15 years                   73       1,908        68       2,339         31         949       118       3,102
15 years and over                         32          41        73         803        _           -         -           -
Total                     753       4,667        710       8,547        51       1,233        129       3,484
D. By Purpose
Fixed Assets                             469       3,656       n.a.      6,547         48       1,202        89       2,877
Working Capital                          284       1,011        _.a.     2,000          3          31        40          607
Total                     753       4,667        710       8,547        51       1,233        129       3,484
EIEiEA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Summary Discussion of Loan Characteristics
This discussion draws on statistical information concerning the four
banks' loan commitments presented in the preceding tables.
Sectoral Distribution
1.        Data relating to the breakdown of loans by sectors of the economy
cover the period 1973-June 30, 1975. As in preceding years, industry absorbed
a large share of each bank's long-term loans; around 70% for PBS, SBS and KBP
and 45% for IBT. The share of industrial financing in case of IBT was lower
compared to the other three banks because of large investments in infrastructure,
trade & catering.
2.        The share of energy and metallurgy in total industrial financing of
the banks, ranging from 23% for KBP to 66% for IBT, was slightly lower than in
preceding years, with the exception of IBT, which continued to concentrate on
financing Montenegro's interrelated aluminum industry and power sector. Other
industries ranking high in loan receipts from the banks were: Metal products
(PBS, IBT and KBP), textiles (PBS, SBS and KBP), food-processing and tobacco
(SBS and IBT), wood-processing (PBS) and non-metallic minerals (KBP). Lending
to industrial sub-sectors excluding energy and metallurgy was most diversified
in case of IBT (the three highest ranking sub-sectors absorbing only 18% of
total loans to industry) while KBP showed the highest concentration (the
equivalent percentage being 37%).
Size Distribution
3.        Loans of less than Din 20 million accounted for about one-third of
long-term loan commitments to the industrial sector during 1973 and 1974 (in
terms of amounts) for PBS, SBS and IBT and about half as much in the case of KBP.
The proportion of loans of up to Din 50 million was about 50% or more. These
loans correspond to projects with total costs generally below Din 150 million,-
,Projects. in this size range are considered to he small and medium scale in
Yug:oslavia.
Types of Loans
4.        Each bank's investment financing for a project often includes financing
of both fixed assets and working capital. In the period under consideration,
loans to finance the build-up of permanent working capital of industrial
enterprises accounted for 17-25% of PBS', SBS' and KBP's long-term loans to
that sector. IBT's share of working capital was much lower in 1973 and 1974
due to a heavy demand for fixed assets financing. Also, during 1973-74,
a part of the National Bank's short-term loans to enterprises through
the banks was converted to long-term loans to strengthen the liquity of



ANNEX 8
Page 2
enterprises, thereby reducing some of their demand for working capital funds
from the banks, particu'larly in the case of IBT in 1974.  For sectors other
than industry, working capital loans by the banks account for a lower share
about 15-20%, of their long-term loan commitments.
Maturities
5.        The higher share of working capital loans in case of PBS and SBS
is reflected in a higher percentage of loans (50-60% of long-term loans to
industry) maturing between 5 to 10 years. With IBT and KBP, on the other
hand, loans with maturities in the category 10 to 15 years predominate by
far and accounted for 76% and 89%, respectively. Only PBS and SBS made a
few loans with maturities of over 15 years which were generally for power
projects from Federal and Republic resources.
ENENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 9
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Statement of Long-Term Resources as at June 30, 1975 _1
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
PBS         SBS          IBT      KBP
Resources Available
Equity funds /2                       2,149        1,822        342       479
Loans:
Federal Fund and    )11851                     11,530       4,412    8,933
Republic funds       )            1            1            4
Banks & other - domestic /3 /4   2,327          4,796       2,498    1,205
Banks & other - foreign /4            500       1,692         602      400
Long-term  deposits                   4,298        3,861        787       365
Total                     21,125       23,701      8,641   11,382
Investment portfolio
(as per balance sheet) /2           19,667       18,887       6.705    8,905
Undisbursed long-term
resources                             1,458       4,814       1,936    2,477
Undisbursed commitments                  7,217       8,097       2,848    3,269
Uncommitted long-term
resources (shortfall)                (5,759)     (3,283)       (912)    (792)
/1 Excludes the resources and the corresponding assets of-each bank's working
community.
/2 Net of Reserve fund (provisions) against losses on loans.
/3 Including National Bank resources in foreign exchange.
/4 The total amount shown under the corresponding heading in the Balance
Sheet includes also some short-term resources which have been excluded
here (estimate).
EMENA/IC & DFC
May 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL LRTDIT PROJECT (II                                    ANNEX 10
Statements of Income and Ecpenses.  1974-June 30. 1975
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
PBS                       SBS                         IBT                        KBP
Jan.-June                 Jar .-June                    ,      .an.--une
1974         1975         1974         1975           1974         1975          1974          1975
INCOME
Interest on loans                               1,435            887        1,434          887           465           278           405          280
Interest on bank deposits                         222            259          185          101             19            8            30            12
Fees, comirssions and charges                     146             88           40           22             17            6            27            15
Other                                             355             67          134           62           108            12            62            20
Gross Income                                2,158         1,301        1,793         1,062           609           304           524          327
ELPENSES
financial Expenses:
Interest on:
Individual deposits                           385           255          379           229            28           19             36          36
Other deposits and borrowings                 754           580          748           407           327          167            257         161
1,139           835        1,127           636           355          186            293        197
Debts written off                                 1           -              14            2             2          -               -           -
Other                                           306             84          115           51           127           21             59          27
1,446           919        1,256           689           484          207            352        224
Gross Income less Financial Costs                     712           382          537          373            125           97            172        103
Administrative Expenses:
Salaries and personnel                          149             97           74           44             25          16             30         17
Deprecitation                                    14              6            6            3              2           1              3           2
Other operating expenses                         93             47           33           21            11            7             18         lo
256           150          113           68             38           24             51         29
Income before statutory obligations                  456            232          424          305             87           73            121         74
Statutory obligations (taxes)                         65             43           50           26             10           22             17          9
NET INCOME /1                                         391           189          374          279             77           51            104         65
Appropriations:
Reserve Fund /1                                   124                         121                          37                         31
Distribution to Founders                          112                         135                          40                          73
Fhnd of the bank 's working conmunity             155                         118                  )     _                       )
391                        374                          77                         104
/I  The net income as shown is not net of provisions against losses since no specific provision
for portfolio losses is made.  The appropriation to the Reserve Fund is a legal requirement
(o,5% of outstanding loans) and can be considered as a provision.
E)ENA/IC & iY7C
May 1976



ANNEX 11
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Balanice Sheets: 1974-June 30, 1975 /1
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
PS                        SBS,                       IBT                        KBP
Dec. 31,    June 30,      Dec. 31,    June 30,       Dec  31,    June 30,       Dec. 31,  , June 30,
1974        1975          1974         1975          1974         1975          197          1975
ASSETS
Cash and deposits with other banks            1,292        1,348           893        1,106           348         388           536          364
Deposits with National Bank                   2,263        2,118         1,017         930           234          258           306          379
Short-term loans                              9,892       11,333         7,183        7,929        1,563        2,052         2,090        2,853
Long-term loans                              15,914       17,772        16,198      17,458         5,898        6,522         7,122        8,363
Loans for housing and communal
construrtion                                2,259        2,420         1,863       1,959           310          343           643          735
Fixed assets                                    274          298            91           99            32          38            64           75
Accrued income and other assets              1i,58         1,417           948   1, 373               187           78           356         464
Total Assets                              33,477       36,706        28,193      30 854         8,572        9,679        11,117      13,233
Managed funds                                    8,974        9,519         9,540        9,511         1,825       1,950         3,773        4,002
LIA3ILITIES
Demand deposits                               8,159        8,578         3,033       3,483            916       1,118           918       1,376
Sav-ngs and other short-term deposits         4,654        5,574         3,637        3,826           387         50C           657         821
Long-tenm deposits                            3,718        4,298         3,662        3,861           689          787           397         365
Loans from federal, republic and other
funds                                       8,836        9,827         9,811      10,484         3,179        3,486         6,350       7,478
Loans from banks and other sources            3,928        3,985         4,883       5,501          2,501       2,745         1,383       1,810
Accrued expenses and other liabilities        1,024        1,298           357          934           321         464           651         630
30,319      33,560        25,383       28,098         7,993       9,100        10,356      12,480
v, ui ty:
Founders fund                                 2,175        2,149         1,858       1,822           341          342           u63         479
Reserve fund                                    528          525 /2        541          530 /2       160          160           232         193 /2
Fund of the bank's working
2o51nmWi y                                    455          472           411         413            78           77            66          Al
3,158       3,146         2,810        2,765           579          579           761        753
Total Liabilities and Equity              33,477       36,706        28,193      30,854         8,572        9,679        11,117    13,233
Managed funds                                     5,974       9,519         9,540        9,511         1,825        1,950         3,773      4,002
Guarantees outstanding /3                       28,000 /4      n.a.         4,689       6,390          1,909        n.a.         n.a.         664
/1  These balance sheets have been prepared by SDK following, to the extent possible, accounting practices of
Western countries which differ from the normal accounting practices in Yugoslavia. Short-term loans
refer to loans with a maturity of up to two years and the items 'other assets' and 'other liabilities'
shown together with accruals, include some short-term assets and liabilities,reepectively.  Separation of
these items into current and long-term assets/liabilities was not possible for this exercise but would be
attempted by SDK in future.  It should also be noted that the Reserve fund', shown in conformity with
Yugoslav practice under equity, has the character of provisions agains bad loans.
/2  Lower than at end 1974 due to temporary use of Reserve funds (for liquidity purposes) which have to be
redeposited in the Reserve account by year end.
/3  As stated by the banks (information on guarantees is not included in the financial statements prepared by SDK).
/4  Approximate figure.  The actual amount of guarantees outstanding is lower since the amount shown includes
some guarantees which had expired but were not cancelled in the accounts (especially in branch accounts).
EMENA/IC & DFC
Key 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Income Statement and Balance Sheet Ratios
1974-June 30 1975
PBS               SBS                IBT              ]KBP
1974    1975      1974    1975      1974    ]975       1974    1975
(Jan.-June)       (Jan.-June)       (Jan -June)        (Jan.-June)
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Gross income/ATA /1 -%                       7.0               6.6                7.9               5.1
Financial expenses/AT'A - %                  5.1               5.1                6.7               3.7
Administrative expenses/ATA - %              0.8               0.4                0.5               0.5
Income before taxes/average equity/2 - % 13.5                 13.0               12.5              17.3
Net income/average equity /2 - %            10.9              10.9               10.0              14.0
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Current ratio                                1.1:1  1.1:1      1.4:1  1.4:1       1.3:1  1.3:1      1.4:1  1.4:1
Long-term loanskotal assets- %                 54      55         64     63         72      67         70     69
Total debt/equity /2                        11.5:1 12.8:1    11.2:1 12.6:1    19.1:1 21.7:1    19.6:1 22.3:1
Long-term debt (LTD) 3//equity 2/            5.8:1  6.9:1       7.7:1  8.9:1    14.3:1 16.8:1    14.2:1 17.2:1
LTD other than Federal and
Republic funds 3//equity 2/                  2.7:1  3.2:1       3.6:1  4.2:1      7.2:1  8.4:1       3.1.1  3.9:1
/1   ATA =  average total assets
/2  Reserve Funds which have the character of Drovisions against bad loans are excluded from
the equity base. Equity data for June 30, 1975 exclude earnings for the period January-June 1975.
/3   The ratios shown are overstated to a small extent since debt data include some short--term debt
which SDK could not separate out.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May 1976



ANNEX 13
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Long-Term Loans in Arrears Over Three Months
As of June 30, 1975
(Amonuts in Millions of Dinars)
Arrears of Principal and/or Interest by Length of Time Overdue
Number of       Principal         Total Over      3-6 Months       6-12 Months      Over 12 Months
Borrowers /1  Outstanding /2    3 Months
Pr.*  Int.*    Pr.   Int.        Pr.    Int.       Pr.        Int.
Borrowers with Total
Arrears in the Range: /3
PBS
Din 1 - 500,000                 4,276             4,291            52    43         45    34         7       9         -          -
500,001    -  1,000,000            21                606           14      4         8     2         3       1         3          1
1,000,001  - 10,000,000            18             3,231            51    15        40      6         3       3         8          6
10,000,OC1 - 20,000,000           -                 -              -     -           -     -         -       -         -          -
Over 20,000,000                   -                 -               _    _         _      _          _                            -
Total                 4,315             8,128           117    62         93    42        13      13        11          7
SBS
Din 1 - 500,000                   116               976            20    20          3     9        10       5         7          6
500,001    -  1,000,000            64                683           13      5         5     3         4       1         4          1
1,000,001  - 10,000,000            47             1,532            84    34        64    24         13       7         7          3
10,000,001 - 20,000,000             3               607            22    17        22    12          -       4         -          1
Over 20,000,000                     5             3,301           117   103         78    69        22      15        17         19
Total                   235             7,099           256   179        172   117        49      32        35         30
IBT
Din 1 - 500,000                   108               987             3      2         -     -         1       1         2          1
500,001    -  1,000,000             7                145            3      1         2     1         1       -         -          -
1,000,001  - 10,000,000             6                 48           10      5         6      3        4       2         -          -
10,000,001 - 20,000,000             2                199           17    10         10     6         7       4         -          -
Over 20,000,000                   -                 -              -     _         _      _          _       _
Total                   123             1,379            33    18         18    10        13       7         2          1
KBP
Din 1 - 500,000                    43                701            7      7         3     3         2       2         2          2
500,001    -  1,000,000             4                164            3      1         2     1         1       -         -          -
1,000,001  - 10,000,000            19             1,069            71    46         32    22        29      17        10          7
10,000,001 - 20,000,000                             -              -     -           -     -         -       -         -          -
Over 20,000,000                            -                       -     -         -      -          -      -         -          -
Total                    66             1,934            81    54         37    26        32      19        12          9
/l In case of PBS, the numbers indicate number of loans.
/2  Principal outstanding of loans in arrears.
/3  For PBS, the classification is by principal in arrears, for the other three
banks by principal and interest in arrears.
* Pr. is Principal and Int. is Interest.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 14
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Prospects of Federal and Less Developed
Xe;ons' EC Oies Dur.ng Plan P2riCd 19-80
1.         The 1976-80 (Draft) Federal Plan.  The Plan continues to emphasize
growth of social product, employment generation and reduction of inter-regional
disparities as major development objectives. As in the past, rapid industriali-
zation remains pivotal to achieving high rates of economic growth and desired
structural changes. Priority will also be given to the development of the raw
material basis of the country, reduction of import-dependence and the removal
of structural imbalances in the industrial sector. More efficacious procedures
for economic planning established recently would ensure that national priori-
ties are reflected in the decisions of the individual economic units and that
coordination would be attained through social contracts and self-management
agreements (see para 2.02).
2.         Real GMP is projected to grow at an annual average rate of about 7%.
Industry is expected to remain the most dynamic sector and would grow at 8.2%.
Gross fixed capital formation would increase by 7.3% per annum in real terms
and its share in GMP would rise from 27.6% in 1975 to 29.7% in 1980. Indus-
trial investment would increase by 8.8% annually, and its share in total social
investment would go up from 50% in 1975 to 54% in 1980. The sectoral composi-
tion of industry is expected to change significantly, with the share of energy,
basic metallurgy and chemicals in total industrial fixed assets rising from 47%
in 1975 to 65% by 1980. The investment program would be financed as follows:
60% from enterprise savings, 23% from individual savings, 9% from foreign loans
and suppliers' credits, and 8% out of resources of social service organizations.
The share of industry to GMP would rise from 42.2% to 44.7% between 1975 and
1980. The economy will remain open but considerable structural changes are en-
visaged in Yugoslavia's trade pattern. The share of raw materials and semi-
finished goods in total imports is expected to decline through efficient domes-
tic substitution, but the share of finished goods, particularly capital equip-
ment embodying advanced technology, would increase. Emphasis is placed on
expanding exports of processed agricultural and industrial products utilizing
domestic raw materials. Exports are projected to increase at about 8% annually
and to account for about 63% of the value of imports in 1980, compared with 56%
in 1975. Imports would grow at about 5% per annum. As to the direction of trade,
the volume of trade with developing countries (11% of exports) is expected to
double in the next five years, while trade with the clearing area (38% of ex-
ports) will continue to increase. Tourism receipts would more than compensate
for the declining workers' remittances. Current account deficits are projected
to hover around US$1 billion throughout the planning period.
3.         Personal incomes would be allowed to increase in line with produc-
tivity gains, which are estimated to grow at 5% per annum. The growth of
public and personal consumption will be held below that of the GMP and infla-
tionary pressures are expected to be gradually reduced, by proper aggregate
demand management and by emphasizing increases in production and supply. Em-
ployment would rise by 3% at a minimum, permitting a reduction both in the
number of migrant workers and in underemployment in the rural sector. To
generate employment opportunities, the Plan encourages limited production of



ANNEX 14
Page 2
goods and services (small scale and cottage industry, arts and crafts, small
hotels, hostels and the like) in the private sector.  Yet, it is unlikely that
unemployment will be reduced significantly by 1980.
4.         The Plan's targets are attainable, possibly with the exception of
the projected growth rates for GiMP and fixed investment. Particularly due to
balance of payments constraints which can be expected to persist, growth rates
of about 1 - 1.5% less than projected for both magnitudes would appear more
realistic. In general, achievement of the Plan's targets is conditioned inter
alia on improvements in industrial efficiency, on export performance as influ-
enced by the competitiveness of Yugoslav exports and the speed of recovery of
Western European economies, success in stabilizing the economy and the resource
mobilization effort both domestically and abroad.
5.         Bosnia- Herzegovina.  The (Draft) Plan stresses growth with greater
equality in the distribution of personal incomes and faster development of the
undeveloped areas within the region. Industry, as in the past, would be the
prime mover. Industrial priorities include: completion of on-going large pro-
jects (mining of iron ore, steel works) and better utilization of existing ca-
pacities; development of energy and minerals (iron, bauxite,zinc, lead); expan-
sion or construction of new facilities in basic industries and chemicals, for-
estry and wood processing; promotion of higher stages of processing, particu-
larly in the metal industries; modernization (wood processing industries, tex-
tiles) and quality improvement in the processing industries. Real GNP is pro-
jected to grow at 7.8% a year, while the social product of industry by 9.5%;
these are about the same growth rates attained during 1971-75. The share of
industry to GMP would go up to 43% by 1980. Industrial exports are forecast to
grow at 12.5% (real terms), along patterns similar to 1971-75 (see Annex 1,
para 1.). Fixed investment is forecast to increase by 13.9%, with 60% of the
total going into industry. The share of basic industries in the industrial
social product would, as a result, increase from 36% at present to 38% in 1980.
Total fixed investment is expected to be financed as follows: banks and enter-
prises 46%; federal and local resources 34%; and foreign loans, investments and
suppliers' credits 20%. Employment would increase by 4.7% and gains in produc-
tivity would go up to 4.9% per annum. Personal consumption is expected to rise
by 6.3%, down from the 7.5% increase during the past five years. The Plan's
targets appear realistic and attainable. The decisive factor would be the suc-
cess in mobilizing the needed financial resources.
6.         Macedonia.  The (Draft) Plan sets high priority on the development
of energy and basic metals industries. Attention is also focussed on the pro-
motion of industries processing further basic metals (aluminum, lead, zinc,
steel, copper) and chemicals (synthetic fibers, plastics, fertilizers). Wood
and food processing, metal products, textiles and construction materials indus-
tries will also be expanded. Other labor-intensive activities, such as handi-
crafts, will be supported. Improvements in physical infrastructure include the
modernization and expansion of the railroad, road transport and telecommunica-
tions systems. Real GM4P is prcjected to grow at 8-9% per annum, while the so-
cial product of industry by about 12%. Industrial investment would increase by
12-13%. Industry is expected to absorb about 60% of total investment. The
share of energy in total industrial investment is forecast to reach 37.5% by



ANNEX 14
Page 3
1980, more than double the 17.2% present level; the share of basic metals
would decline from 30.3% in 1975 to 27.3% in 1980. It is apparent that the
heavy emphasis on developing the capital intensive energy sector would pre^-nt
resources for other, more labor-intensive activities and, in consequence, lip
service would be paid to the goal of alleviating the pressing unemployment
problem. Fixed investment, which would grow at 10% annually, will be financed
roughly as follows: 27% from enterprise savings, 13% by banks, 35% from fed-
eral, republic and communal sources, and 25% from foreign loans and suppliers'
credits. Industrial exports are forecast to increase by 9%. Employment is
expected to grow at about 4%, while real personal incomes by 4% compared to 1%
during the past five years. The Plan's targets derive from established national
priorities and appear feasible. Mustering the necessary funds is the most im-
portant condition for the Plan's fulfilment.
7.         Montenegro.  The main emphasis of the (Draft) Plan is on growth, with
industry as the propelling force, and development of Montenegro's energy (ther-
mal) potential. Industrial priorities include: completion of on-going pro-
jects, balancing of existing projects, modernization in such industries as ma-
chine, wood, textiles, better utilization of available facilities and rational
exploitation of natural resources (zinc, lead, bauxite). Gross investment is
projected to grow at 17% a year in real terms, while industrial investment by
16.5%, accounting for 59% of total investment. Over 30% of industrial invest-
ment will be allocated to expand power facilities. The Plan stresses the de-
velopment of metal processing based on ferrous and non-ferrous industries. In-
dustrial exports are projected to grow at 11.4% (real terms) per annum, with
non-ferrous and metal products, electrical equipment and chemicals taking the
lead. Exports are expected to reach 85% of the value of imports by 1980. About
60% of exports are expected to be placed in the convertible currency area, In
frastructure, especially communications and transport, receive due attention.
Investments are expected to be financed as follows: banks and enterprise sav-
ings 20%; federal and local funding 45% foreign sources 35%. Employment is
projected to grow at 3.8%. Productivity is expected to go up to 8.8%, which
may be too optimistic. GMP would grow at 8.8%, while population at 1.1%. In-
dustry would grow at 12.5% and its share to GNP is projected to rise from 36.2%
in 1975 to 42.7% in 1980. The Plan's priorities make sense. Over the past two
decades, Montenegro experienced an 7.6% average annual growth of GNP. Although
the targeted growth rates are within the capabilities of the region, serious
constraints to development persist. Main considerations are: securing the re-
quisite financial resources; improvement in world markets; and control of domes-
tic inflationary pressures.
8.         Kosovo.  The Plan emphasizes accelerated industrial development,
creation of gainful employment opportunities, and a more balanced social and
economic development within the region to reduce income disparities. Specific
objectives include dispersion of industry, greater accumulation by enterprises,
better utilization of capacity, improvements in infrastructure (railroads, rcads,
communications). In the past, a high proportion of investments had been direct-
ed to the extractive industries and energy. The intention is now to gradually
change the industrial structure by promoting the growth of processing industrieE,
especially of those extending into higher phases of processing of locally pro-
duced minerals. This shift would also help alleviate the unemployment situation.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
The plan particularly stresses expansion of the non-ferrous industry (lead,
ginc, nickel), chemical industry (basic chemicals, carbo-chemicals, processing
of basic chemicals), electrical equipment, metal processing, construction
materials, synthetic rubber, food processing; integration and modernization of
the wood processing industry; expansion of such labor- intensive industries as
textiles, leather and footwear, tobacco and handicrafts; increase in the pro-
duction of lignite for generation of electric power, gasification, and further
industrial applications. Fixed investment is projected to increase by 25.3%
per annum and would be funded as follows:  enterprises 10%; banks, including
foreign credits, 25%; federal, republic and other local sources 65%. Indus-
trial investment would grow faster, at 31%, while industrial production would
increase by 15% per annum. Industrial exports are forecast to grow by 15%.
Real GMP would grow at about 15% a year and employment by 7%. The Plan's ob-
jectives and priorities are reasonable. But the targeted GMP and investment
growth rates appear unrealistically high. The underlying assumptions regarding
the resource mobilization capabilities of the region seem overoptimistic, while
existing hurdles to development appear to be underplayed.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 15
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Forecast of Long-Term Loans: 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
All Sectors
Total
1975           1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1976-1980
(Estimate)
PBS
Commitments              5,000          5,800        6,600         7,400       8,200         9,200          37,200
Disbursements             5,000          5,600        6,500        7,200        8,000        8,600          35,900
Repayments                1,315          1,400        1,500        1,700        2,000        2,400           9,000
SBS
Commitments               8,800          2,550        5,850        7,200        6,300        6,040          27,940
Disbursements             4,805          5,535        5,760        6,225        6,600        7,220          31,340
Repayments                1,215          1,280        1,420        1,600        1,850        2,200           8,350
IBT
Commitments              3,170           3,050        2,785        2,880        3,125        3,375          15,215
Disbursements             2,640          2,540        2,230        2,400        2,500        2.700          12,370
Repayments                 360             545          625          725          850        1,000           3,745
KBP
Commitments              4,060           4,780        5,620        6,610        7,770        9,140          33,920
Disbursements             3,810          4,610        5,450        6,280        7,250        8,720          32,310
Repayments                  750            820          900        1,000        1,200        1,550           5,470
Industry
PBS
Commitments                4 000          4,600        5,000        5,500        6,100        6,800          28,000
Disbursements              3:800          4,500        5,700        5,750        6,200        6,650          28,800
SBS
Commitments                7,150          1,790        4,090        5,040        4,410        4,230          19,560
Disbursements              3,360          3,880        4,030        4,355        4,620        5,050          21,935
IBT
Commitments                2,110          2,030        1,780        1,920        2,000        2,160           9,890
Disbursements              1,690          1,625        1,605        1,780        1,800        1,940           8,750
KBP
Commitments                2,860          3,370        3,980        4,690        5,540        6,200          23,780
Disbursements              2,570          3,030        3,580        4,220        4,980        5,580          21,390
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 16
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)                      Page 1
PRIVRJEDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
Projected Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds /1
Years Ending December 31  1975-80
(Amounts in Milios   ot  ninars)
1975          1976       1977       1978       1979      1980
(Estimate)
Sources
Net increase in short-term resources /2                2,500         1,180      1,280      1,380      1,490    1,610
Net increase in long-term deposits                       670            350        380        410        440       480
Collections on long-term loans                         1,315          1,400     1,500      1,700      2,000    2,400
Long-term borrowings:
Federal Fund                                        2,330         2,520      2,720      2,940      3,170    3,420
Republic funds                                        450           490        520        570        610       660
Other domestic                                        780           -          -          -          -         -
IBRD loans for industry                                15           165        160        130        145       150
Other foreign borrowings secured
or identified                                       410            15         40         25         30        40
Unidentified domestic and
foreign borrowings                                   -          1,910      2,530      2,975      3,405    3,600
Total Sources                                  8,100         8,030      9,130    10,130    11,290   12,360
Applications
Net increase in short-term loans
and deposits with National Bank                     2,000         1,180      1,280      1,380      1,490    1,610
Long-term loan disbursements                           5,000          5,600      6,500      7,200      8,oo0    8,600
Repayment of long-term borrowings                      1,100          1,250      1,350      1,550      1,800    2,150
Total Applications                             8,100         8,030      9,130    10,130    11,290   12,360
Assumptions:
1 Projections are in constant prices since they are based primarily on the five-year Plan targets,
which are also in constant prices.
2. Federal Fund allocations, short-term resources and long-term deposits are projected to grow at 8%
p.a. over 1976-80 (in constant prices), which is approximately equal to the expected growth in
social sector GOM.
3. The substantial gaps shown under unidentified domestic and foreign borrowings are expected to be covered
mainly through National Bank credits in both domestic and foreign currency.
4. Projections of IBRD loans for industry account for a third industrial credit project of $55 million in
FY78. Expected resources under the IBRD agricuitural credit line are included in other foreign
borrowings secured or identified.
/1 Excluding the cash flow from operations and the corresponding applications (distribution to reserves,
the bank's working community--including for fixed assets--and founders).
/2 Including net increase in short-term deposits, credits and National Bank re-discount facilities.
CollectiQn.of short-tern loans is excluded since under "Applications" only net increase in short-
term loans (disbursements less repayments) is shown.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 16
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)                       Page 2
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
Projected Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds /1
Years Endin8 December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975          1976       1977       1978       1979      1980
(Estimate)
Sources
Net increase in short-term resources /2                  2,300            720        780        840        910       980
Net increase in long-term deposits                          600           340        370        400        430       470
Collections on long-term loans                           1,215          1,280      1,420      1,600      1,850    2,200
Long-term borrowings:
Federal Fund                                          1,640         1,770      1,910      2,070      2,230    2,410
Republic funds                                          265            290        310        330        360      390
Other domestic                                          225           -          -          -          -
IBRD loans for industry                                  30           160         55         95        105       110
Other foreign borrowings secured
or identified                                       1,140           135        175         30         30        40
Unidentified domestic and
foreign borrowings                                    -           2,490      2X540      2,910      2,985    3,820
Total Sources                                 7,415          7 185      7 560      8,275      8,900   10,420
Applications
Net increase in short-term loans
and deposits with National Bank                       1,795           500        550        600        650       700
Long-term loan disbursements                             4,895         5,535      5,760      6,225      6,600    7,720
Repayments of long-term borrowings                          815        1,150      1,250      1.450      1,650    2-000
Total Applications                             7,415         7,185      7,560      8,275      8,900   10,420
Assumptions:
1. Projections are in constant prices since they are based primarily on the five-year Plan targets,
which are also in constant prices.
2. Federal Fund allocations, short-term resources and long-term deposits are projected to grow at 8%
p.a. over 1976-80 (in constant prices), which is approximately equal to the expected growth in
social sector GMP.
3. The substantial gaps shown under unidentified domestic and foreign borrowings are expected to be
covered mainly through National Bank credits in both domestic and foreign currency.
4. Projections of IBRD loans for industry account for a third industrial credit project of $55 million in
FY78. IBRD assistance under the agro-industry credit and the agricultural credit line are included
in "other foreign borrowings secured or identified".
/1 Excluding the cash flow from operations and the corresponding applications (distribution to reserves,
the bank s working community--including for fixed assets--and founders).
/2 Including net increase in short-term deposits, credits and National Bank re-discount facilities.
Collection of short-term loans is excluded since under "Applications" only net increase in short-
term loans (disbursements less repayments) is shown.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 3
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
Projected Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds /1
Years Ending December 31. 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975          1976       1977       1978       1979      1980
(Estimate)
Sources
Net increase in short-term resources /2                     450           140        150        160        175       190
Net increase in long-term deposits                           10            55         60         65         70        75
Collections on long-term loans                              360           545        625        725        850    1,000
Long-term borrowings:
Federal Fund                                            840            900        970      1,050      1,130    1,230
Republic funds                                          130            140        150        160        175       190
Other domestic                                          797            -          -          -          -         -
IBRD loans for industry                                  18             70         42         50         55        55
Other foreign borrowings secured
or identified                                         865 /3         240 /3       5          5          5         5
Unidentified domestic and
foreign borrowings                                    -           1,065        928         995        965      995
Total Sources                                  3,470         3,155      2,930      3,210      3,425    3,740
Applications
Net increase in short-term loans
and deposits with National Bank                          450            140        150        160        175       190
Long-term loan disbursements                              2,640         2,540      2,230      2,400      2,500    2,700
Repayments of long-term borrowings                          380           475        550        650        750       850
Total Applications                             3,470         3,155      2,930      3,210      3,425    3,740
Assumptions:
1.  Projections are in constant prices since they are based primarily on the five-year Plan targets,
which are also in constant prices.
--2. Federal Fund allocations, short-term resources and long-term deposits are projected to grow
at 8% p.a. over 1976-80 (in constant prices), which is approximately equal to the expected growth
in social sector GMP.
3.  The substantial gaps shown under unidentified domestic and foreign borrowings are expected to be
covered mainly through National Bank credits in both domestic and foreign currency.
4.  Projections of IBRD loans for industry include a third industrial credit project of $55 million
in FY78. Expected resources under the IBRD agricultural credit line are included in other foreign
borrowings secured or identified.
/1  Excluding the cash flow from operations and the corresponding applications (distribution to reserves,
the bank's working community--including for fixed assets--and founders).
/2  Including net increase in short-term deposits, credits and National Bank re-discount facilities.
/3  Includes special funds from the Federation for projects in power and other priority sectors.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 4
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
Projected Statements of Sources and A  14s'1r'es of Ftmds 12
Years Ending December 31, i9fo-Ou
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975         1976       1977       1978      1979      1980
(Estimate)
Sources
Net increase in short-term resources /2                 250           270        300       320        350       380
Net increase in long-term deposits                      190            50         50        60         60        70
Collections on long-term loans                          750           820        900     1,000      1,200    1,550
Long-term borrowings:
Federal Fund                                       2,390        2,730      2,950      3,190      3,450    3,720
Republic funds
Other domestic                                     1,085           -         -          -          -        -
IBRD loans for industry                               15           175       160        135        150      155
Other foreign borrowings secured
or identified                                     -                5        20         20         20       20
Unidentified domestic and
foreign borrowings                                -           1,555      2,170      2,775     3,420    4,605
Total Sources                                4,680         5,605      6,550      7,500     8,650   10,500
Applications
Net increase in short-term loans
and deposits with National Bank                      250           270       300        320        350       380
Long-term loan disbursements                          3,810         4,610     5,450      6,280      7,250    8,720
Repayment of long-term borrowings                       620           725        800       900      1,050    1,400
Total Applications                           4,680         5,605      6,550      7,500     8,650
Assumptions:
1. Projectiou" are in constant prices since they are based primarily on the five-year Plan targets,
'hich are-eao in constant prices.
2. Federal Fund allocations are projected to grow at 8Z p.a. over 1976-80 (in constant prices), which
is approximately equal to the expected growth in social sector GMP; short-term resources and long-term
deposits are expected to grow at a slightly higher rate of 9Z because of the low base of such
resources at present.
3. The substantial gaps shown under unidentified domestic and foreign borrowings are expected to
be covered mainly through National Bank credits in both domestic and foreign currency.
4. Projections of IBRD loans for industry account for a third industrial credit project of $55 million
in FY78. Expected resources under the IBRD agricultural credit line are included in other
foreign borrowings secured or identified.
/1 Excluding the cash flow from operations and the corresponding applications (distribution to
reserves, the bank's working community--including for fixed assets--and founders).
/2 Including net increase in short-term deposits, credits and National Bank re-discount facilities.
Collection of short-term loans is excluded since under "Applications" only net increase in short-
term loans (disbursements less repayments) is shown.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
Projected Income Statements
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975         1976        1977         1978       1979         1980
(Estimated)
INCOME
Interest                                       2,130        2,360       2,600       2,8&0       3,180       3,520
Fees and commission charges                      170           190        210         240         270         300
Other income                                     250           250         250        250         250         250
Gross income                            2,550                     3,00        3,370       3,700      4p07
EXPENSES
1,760        1,940       2,140       2,360       2,600       2,870
290          325         370         425         480         545
Administrative and other expenses                 95            95          95          95          95          95
Statutory obligations (taxes)
2142,6                   2,605.      2,880       3,175       3,510
Total expenses                           2145          2,360
405          440         455         490         525         560
NET INCOME                                          -
Appropriations:
Founders fund and fund of the
bank's working community                       240           250         235         245         245         260
Reserve fund                                     165           190         220         245         280         300
405          440         455         490         525         560
EMENA/IC & DFC                                                                                                       1-d
January 1976                                                                                                            i



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
Projected Income Statements
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975         1976        1977        1978       1979        1980
(Estimate)
INCOME
Interest                                     1,805         2,080       2,240      2,560       2,770       3,110
Fnerestadcmiso   h~e                             50           60          70          80         90         100
Fees and commission cha%ges                     135          135         135         135        135         135
Other income                                                         -                            --
Gross income                           1,990         2,275      2,445       2,775       2,995       3,345
EXPENSES
Financial expenses                           1,365         1,585       1,700       1,955      2,110       2,380
Administrative and other expenses               170     .    195         220         250         280        315.
Statutory obligations (taxes)                    55           60          60          65         65          70
Total expenses                         1,590         1,840       1,980      2,270       2,455       2,765
NET INCOME                                         400           435        465         505         540         580
Appropriations:
Founders fund and fund of the
bank's working community255                     260         265        270         275         280
Reserve fund                                    145          175         200         235         265         300
400          435         465         505        540         580
ENENA/IC & DFC
January 1976                                                                                                        m 
1-



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
Projected Income Statements
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975          1976       1977        1978        1979        1980
(Estimated)
INCOME
Interest                                       570           690        780         870         945         1,035
Fees and commission charges                     20            20          20         20          20            20
Other income                                    10            10          10         15          15            15
Gross income                            600.          720         810         905         980         17070
EXPENSES
Financial expenses                             420           515        585         660         715           790
Administrative and other expenses               60            70          75          80         90            95
Statutory obligations (taxes)                   45            50          50         60          60            65
Total expenses                          5*5           635         710         800         865           950
NET INCOME                                         75            85         100         105        115           120
Appropriations:
Founders fund and fund of the
bank's working community                      25            25          30         25          25            20
Reserve fund                                       50            60          70          80         90           100
.75           85        100         105         115           120
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976
Hc



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
Projected Income Statements
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975         1976        1977        1978        1979         1980
(Estimated)
INCONE
Interest                                        550           715        910       1,150       1,420       1,735
Fees and commission charges                      30            3U.         35          35         40          40
Other income                                     60            60          65          65          70         70
Gross income                              640           805      1,010       1,250       1,530       1,845
EXPENSES
Financial expenses                              435           565         720        905       1,115       1,360
Administrative and other expenses                65            80         105         130         160        200
Statutory obligations (taxes)                    20            20          20          20          20         20
Total expenses                            520           665         845      1,055       1,295       15580
NET INCOME                                         120           140         165         195         235         265
Appropriations:
Founders fund and fund of the
bank's working community                       55            55          60          60          65          65
Reserve fund                                     65            85         105         135         170         200
120           140        165         195         235         265
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
PRIVIEWNA J3'KA SARAJEVO
Projected Balance Sheets
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975         1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
(Estimate)
ASSETS
Short-term loans and deposits                      14,155       15,335      16,615      17,995      19,485     21,095
Long-term loans                                    21,855       26,055      31,055      36,555      42,555     48,755
Liquid funds and other assets                       3,560        4,000       4,455       4,945       5,470      6,030
Total Assets                                 39,570        45,390      52,125     59,495      67,510      75,880
LIABILITIES
Short-term borrowings and deposits                15,310        16,490      17,770      19,150     20,640      22,250
Long-term deposits                                 4,390         4,740       5,120       5,530      5,970       6,450
Long-term borrowings                              15,280        19,130      23,750      28,840     34,400      40,120
Other liabilities                                  1,025         1,025       1,025       1,025      1,025       1,025
36,005       41,385      47,665      54,545     62,035      69,845
Equity:
Founders fund and fund of the bank's
working community                                2,875         3,125       3,360      3,605       3,850       4,110
Reserve fund                                         690           880       1,100      1,345       1,625       1,925
3,565        4,005       4,460       4,950      5,475       6,035
Total Liabilities and Equity                 39,570        45,390     52,125      59,495      67,510     75,880
>1
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
Projected Balance Sheets
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975          1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
(Estimate)
ASSETS
Short-term loans and deposits                       9,995        10,495       11,045      11,645      12,295      12,995
Long-term loans                                    21,650        25,905       30,245      34,870      39,620      45,140
Liquid funds and other assets                       2.330         2,765        3,230       3,735       4,275       4,855
Total Assets                                 33,975        39,165       44 520      50,250      56,190      62,990
LIABILITIES
Short-term borrowings and deposits                  8,970         9,690       10,470      11,310      12,220      13,200
Long-term deposits                                  4,260         4,600        4,970       5,370       5,800       6,270
Long-term borrowings                               17,180        20,875       24,615      28,600      32,660      37,430
Other liabilities                                     355           355          355         355         355         355
30,765        35,520       40,410      45,635      51,035      57,255
Equity:
Founders fund and fund of the bank's
working community                                2,525          2,785        3,050       3,320       3,595       3,875
Reserve fund                                          685           860        1,060       1,295       1,560       1,860
3,210         3,645        4,110       4,615       5,155       5,735
Total Liabilities and Equity                 33,975        39,165       44,520      50,250      56,190      62,990
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
Projected Balance Sheets
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1915          1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
(Estimate)
ASSETS
Short-term loans and deposits                      2,250          2,390       2,540       2,700       2,875       3,065
Long-term loans                                    8,490         10,485      12,090      13,765      15,415      17,115
Liquid funds and other assets                        640             725         825         930      1,045       1,165
Total Assets                                 11,380         13,600      15,455      17,395      19,335      21,345
LIABILITIES
Short-term borrowings and deposits                 1,750          1,895       2,045       2,205       2,380       2,570
Long-term deposits                                   700             755        815          880         950      1,025
Long-term borrowings                               7,950          9,890      11,435      13,045      14,625      16,250
Other liabilities                                    320            320         320          320         320         320
10,720         12,860      14,615      16,450      18,275      20,165
Equity:
Founders fund and fund of the bank's
working community                                  525            550         580         605         630         650
Reserve fund                                         130            190         260         340         430         530
655            740         840         945       1,060       1,180
Total Liabilities and Equity                11,380         13,600      15,455      17,395       19,335     21,345
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I'd
go .
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
Projected Balance Sheets
Years Ending December 31, 1975-80
(Amounts in Millions of Dinars)
1975          1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
(Estimate)
ASSETS
Short-term loans and deposits                       2,645         2,915       3,215       3,535       3,885       4,265
Long-term loans                                    10,825        14,615      19,165      24,445      30,495      37,665
Liquid funds and other assets                       1,075         1,215       1,380       1,575       1,810       2,075
Total Assets                                  14,545        18,745      23,760      29,555      36,190      44,005
LIABILITIES
Short-term borrowings and deposits                  1,825         2,095       2,395       2,715       3,065       3,445
Long-term deposits                                    585           635         685          745        805         875
Long-term borrowings                               10,605        14,345      18,845      24,065      30,055      37,155
Other liabilities                                     650           650         650         650         650         650
13,665        17,725      22,575      28,175.    34,575       42,125
Equity:
Founders fund and fund of the bank's
working community                                   585           640         700         760         825         890
Reserve fund                                          295           380         485         620         790         990
880        1,020       1,185       1,380       1,615       1,880
Total Liabilities and Equity                 142545        18_745      23,760      292555      36,190      44,005
X m
EMEMA/IC & DFC
January 1976



ANNEX 19
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Composition and Functions of the Unit4 and the
Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project
1.        PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP shall form and maintain a joint Unit for the
purposes of the second Industrial Credit Project with the composition and
functions described hereunder. The two Units formed under the first
Industrial Credit Project shall be dissolved after the two loans for that
project are fully committed and the new Unit is formed; thereafter, the
supervisory and administrative functions with respect to Industrial Credit
Project I shall be taken over by the new Unit.
A. COMPOSITION OF THE UNIT
2.        The Unit shall consist of four Sub-Units, one each from PBS, SBS,
IBT and KBP. Each Sub-Unit shall consist of three members respectively
appointed by each of the banks within its staff and acceptable to the
Bank, one of these members being designated by each of the banks as
head of the Sub-Unit. The four heads of the Sub-Units shall select one of
them to serve as Chairman of the Unit for a minimum period of six months.
(At least one member of each Sub-Unit should be from the bank's project staff;
another (preferably versed in English) should help coordinate the preparation
of progress reports and other information requested by IBRD.)
3.        The Unit and its Sub-Units shall meet as and when necessary.
B. FUNCTIONS OF THE UNIT
4.        The Unit:
(a) shall be responsible for submitting progress reports, as
agreed to between IBRD and the four banks, on the loan
and on the operations of the four banks (for this purpose,
it will obtain the necessary information from the banks
through its Sub-Units and present it in a uniform and
consistent manner acceptable to IBRD);
(b) shall, in consultation with IBRD, propose to the four
banks, and (through its Sub-Units) help implement,
schedule and procedures for supervision of sub-projects
under the Industrial Credit Project; and
(c) shall maintain on behalf of the four banks close relation
with the Bank and assist the Bank representatives in any
inspection of investment projects and in exchange of views
with the four banks on matters relating to the Industrial
Credit Project.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
5.        The Sub-Unit of each bank:
(a) shall review each proposed sub-project (investment project
proposed for IBRD financing under the Industrial Credit
Project) and related application for a sub-loan to IBRD by
its bank on the basis of a detailed appraisal of the invest-
ment project prepared by the bank;
(b) shall, after its review, make recommendations to its bank on
each sub-project and related sub-loan as to its conformity
to the "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project" and
suggest any modifications to achieve such conformity. (A
statement from the Sub-Unit that the investment project
satisfies the above policy statement should also be submitted
to IBRD with each sub-loan application); and
(c) shall, in coordination with the Unit, assist its bank in
carrying out supervision and evaluation of sub-projects.
C.  STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND POLICIES FOR THE PROJECT
6.        Sub-projects and related sub-loans shall conform to the following:
(a) Sub-projects will be limited to development projects in
manufacturing, processing and small basic industries
(excluding agro-industrial projects).
(b)  Sub-projects will be limited to small- and medium-sized
projects, normally not exceeding the equivalent of $6,000,000
in total costs, and sub-loans for each investment_project will
normally not exceed US$2,500,000 equivalent. However, in
cases where IBRD funds (sub-loans) are supplemented with other
foreign exchange financing, sub-projects with total costs of
normally up to US$10,000,000 will be eligible.
(c) Sub-projects should provide satisfactory financial and
economic rates of return, on the basis of detailed and
realistic estimates of costs and benefits, in addition
to meeting normal criteria of technical feasibility of
the sub-project, marketability of its production and credit-
worthiness and managerial competence of the investment
enterprise. Normally, sub-projects with an internal
financial rate of return of less than 11% 1/ will be excluded.
If the economic rate of return is calculated to be less
than 11%, a particular justification will be required.
(d) The investment enterprise undertaking a sub-project should
have a satisfactory financial structure. As a guideline,
its long-term debt/equity ratio should not exceed 3:1
1/  The on-lending interest rate on IBRD funds.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
unless, if higher, the appraisal of the sub-project
indicates that this ratio would be reduced to below
the above limit within a reasonable period of time.
(e) Each sub-loan will carry interest at an annual rate of
11%, and the borrowing enterprise will carry the foreign
exchange risk on the sub-loan.
(f)  Individual sub-loan repayment periods should not exceed
15 years, including the period of grace. The repayment
period should be related to the useful life of the assets
financed by the sub-loan and the debt-service capacity of
the investment enterprise. Grace periods on the IBRD sub-
loans should normally not exceed three years. To encourage
blending of IBRD funds with other foreign exchange resources
which are expected to be mainly medium-term suppliers'
credits, grace periods on IBRD sub-loans may be allowed
up to six years depending on the merits of individual sub-
projects and their financing package.
(g) Each sub-project will be subject to close supervision by
the appropriate bank in accordance with the procedures
proposed by the Unit.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May 1976



ANNEX 20
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (II)
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
of the IBRD Loan
(in US$ million)
Disbursement
Calendar                           During
Year          Quarter            Quarter      Cumulative
1977             1                1.25            1.25
1977             2                2.25            3.50
1977             3                3.25            6.75
1977             4                4.25           11.00
1978             1                5.25           16.25
1978             2                6.25           22.50
1978             3                6.25           28.75
1978             4                6.25           35.00
1979             1                5.00           40.00
1979             2                4.0            44.00
1979             3                3.0            47.00
1979             4                2.0            49.00
1980             1                1.0            50.00
Assumptions:
1.  The loan is assumed to be committed over six
quarters equally except for a somewhat higher
amount in the first quarter (after loan
effectiveness).
2.  The committed sub-loans are assumed to be
disbursed equally over eight quarters.
EMENA/IC & DFC
January 1976



