Document of1 
FILE COPY   ~The World Bank  |G    
FILE COPYDumnofr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1801a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
MIay 14, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official doties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WVorld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                                             Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                      Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                                    US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                                 US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                                            US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are as of April 30, 1976.
ABBREVIATIONS
LDR   -   Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
DR   -   Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
PBS   -   Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SBS   -   Stopanska Banka Skopje
IBT   -   Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP   -   Kosovska Banka Pristina
SDK   -   Social Accounting Service
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BANKS
(PBS, SBS, IBT, KBP)
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$50.0 million in the amounts of US$16.0 million to Privredna
Banka Sarajevo (PBS), US$11.4 million to Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS), US$6.0
million to Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT), and US$16.6 million to Kosovska
Banka Pristina (KBP), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (SFRY), to help finance the foreign exchange costs of invest-
ments in medium- and small-size industrial projects in the four less-devel-
oped regions (LDRs) of Yugoslavia. The loan would bear interest at 8-1/2 per-
cent per annum and would be repaid according to a schedule reflecting the
composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed. Individual sub-
loans will be repaid over a period not exceeding 15 years including grace
periods of normally up to three years and in cases of co-financing of foreign
exchange costs (paras. 51 and 53) up to six years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An updating Econo-
mic Memorandum (662a-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on June
23, 1975. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in October 1975 and the
findings of this mission are incorporated in this report. Basic data on the
economy are.given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an aver-
age rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In
1973, per capita GNP came to about US$1010 (World Bank Atlas methodology).
This impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental struc-
tural changes in the economy which has moved towards a modern industry/serv-
ice oriented urban society. The share of agriculture in GDP declined from
38 to 20 percent while the share of industry and mining increased from 16 to
37 percent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and Provinces to
0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of labor force from agriculture to industry and
services. However, by 1974 nearly 45 percent of the resident active labor
force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly on small private
farms; industry (including mining) accounted for 21 percent, and other sectors
for 34 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitution-
al amendments which were consolidated in the new constitution of 1974.  It
strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of Yugos-
lavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the socially
owned means of production is entrusted to the workers' collectives, is the
fundamental right and obligation of every "basic organization of associated
labor" (the smallest technologically identifiable unit of operation) in every
sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most important social and
policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation down to the Republics
and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the management and finan-
cial responsibility for social activities (like health, education, welfare,
etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to "communities of interest"
(decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers and users
of the specific services). Responsibility for certain economic activities
affecting large segments of the society (like communal services, power produc-
tion, highways and water management) can be - and progressively is - similarly
organized through communities of interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role in economic and social development; it accounts for 85 per-
cent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sec-
tor is predominantly comprised of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of
nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, transport
and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively neglected
by government policy. However, lately more attention is being devoted to
private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural pro-
duction and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity - with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South - has emerged as one of the most import-
ant development issues of the country. Four distinct regions can be distin-
guished by stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income
region with almost double the national average. The Renublics of Serbia,
Croatia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income re-
gions, ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even
within these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia - with per capita income between
67 to 75 percent constitute the upper group among the officially designated



"less developed regions". The Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with an aver-
age in come of only 33 percent of the national average, is at the bottom of
the spread. These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to
intraregional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between
communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of
stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs which largely determines the
disparity between the regions. The rate of economic growth of the LDRs as a
whole was only slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but due to the
faster population growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent in the more
developed regions) the income disparity had tended to widen significantly
during the last two decades. In order to reverse this trend and to accele-
rate economic growth and social development in the LDRs, mechanisms have been
instituted for sizeable transfers of financial resources. In 1973, credits
on highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of around 50 percent)
were made available through the "Federal Fund" to the Ll)Rs in the amount of
almost US$250 million, equivalent to more than 20 percent of their total in-
vestment in the social sector. An additional US$130 million for social serv-
ices were transferred as budgetary grants. Both categories of transfers have
been growing in line with the growth in total GDP.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 3-4 percent of the resident labor force in 1974. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated one million out of a total labor force of around 9 mil-
lion (in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is
some evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low in-
terregional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. Third, severe underemployment persists in the private agri-
cultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.         In 1974, Yugoslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972 respec-
tively. Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by
almost 40 percent (9 percent in real terms) and total consumption expenditures
by about 41 percent (13 percent in real terms). The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both in the rise of em-
ployrnent and of imports -both in nominal and real terms - and domestic prices.
The gain in total employment amounted to about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded
for the first time the natural increase of the labor force. Industrial pro-
ducer prices rose by almost 30 percent whiLe the cost of living rose less
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy leaves, for institutional
reasons, little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through



- 4 -
prices and income policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe has led to a sharp dec-
line in exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles
(mostly from workers remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate
for the large trade deficit and the country recorded a current account deficit
in excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million
in 1973. In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been grad-
ually tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods
and some capital and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank
raised the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect de-
valuing the dinar by about 7 percent against the currencies of Yugoslavia's
major trading partners. The large current account deficit has led to some
loss of foreign exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$345 mil-
lion in 1974 (compared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition,
net foreign borrowing, which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased
to around US$650 million in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers
and credits from financial inst[tutions continued to be the major sources of
foreign capital. Long-term funds related to financing of development are be-
ing made available mainly by the IBRD and some bilateral sources (particularly
the US Export-Import Banlk and Federal Republic of Germany).  Yugoslavia has
also been one of the beneficiaries of the ITMF's Special Oil Facility. Yugos-
lavia's medium- and long-term external debt outstanding as of December 31,
1973 was US$4,319 million (disbursed only) and is expected to have increased
to about US$5.0 billion during 1974. Debt service payments amounted to about
15.9 percent of foreign exchange earnings (including workers remittances) in
1973 and 15.3 in 1974.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy is estimated to have receded
to 4.5 percent, due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetpry
policy, stagnating exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes; economic
investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus during
1975. The Lnflationary pressure which built up during 1974 and extended into
1975 receded drastically in the second half of the year; the rate of increase
of industrial producer prices  decreased from 30 percent in 1974 to an annual
rate of 12 percent for the first ten montlhs of 1975 and the index of real per-
sonal receipts remained unchanged for the same period.   The good harvest in
1974 has had a favorable impact on the balance of payments, although meat ex-
ports were severely affected by the European Community ban on meat imports.
Exports to oil producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area
have continued to expand rapidly in 1975, but are not expected to compensate



- 5 -
for the sharp decline in exports to the convertible currency area. Workers'
remittances and receipts from tourism have increased marginally. The cur-
rent account deficit for 1975 was estimated to approximate the level of 1974
on the basis of preliminary estimates, but there are now indications that it
may have dropped by 20 to 25 percent due to a curtailing of imports and an
increasing of exports during the last third of 1975.
Prospects for 1976
12.       The balance of payments is expected to remain the central problem
in 1976 as well as for the years to come. The current account deficit is ex-
pected to decline somewhat as imports are restrained and there is a recovery
in the level of economic activity in Western Europe. The inflationary momen-
tum will probably be curtailed further through improved investment control,
closer alignment of real income changes with improvements of productivity and
restrictive monetary policy. The real growth rate of GDP is expected to be
constrained to about 4.5 percent in 1976 with a gradual recovery in subsequent
years.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
13.       The aggravation of major etconornic problems during 1974, such as
rapid inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal
of development objectives.  In the light of the recenlt shift of relative
prices in favor of raw materials, riore emphasis will be given to the develop-
ment of Yug,oslavia's owl nat:ural rtes!--;aurces.  In this connection, the develop-
ment of the energy sector is giveni thle highest priority.  It focuses on elec-
tric power, where thie generating capacity is Likely to faLl critically short
of the rapidly rising power requirrements of the expanding economy.  The de-
velopment of the power sector will largely be based on the large unutiLized
hydropower potential and soft-ccal reserves of the country. Other priority
activities are f-rrous metalluirgy, some segments of non-ferrous metaLlurgy
(notably lead, ZincL', c( pper, niricket and bauxite/aluLminum), technolI ogically
advanced product ion equiFreLt, bas ic chemicals in(luding petroleum refining,
agriculture and food proces;sing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose
works, and housing and basic construCtion material.
14.       This emptlas;is :11n aCCelerated development of the raw material basis
and the deepening of The economic inLfrastructure requires a more capital-
intensive investment patte-rll, associated with longer time-lags between in-
vestment and output.  To sustain this development path, both continued high
borrowing abroad and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since with
the possible exception of private savings, interest rates do not play a sig-
nificant role in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy - i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workErs' income atnd accumulation - will have a crucial role.
15.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-1980), presently under preparation,
will focus on the implementation of these objectives. For growth, an average
rate of 7 percent per year is proposed as feasible, comparing with a target



growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 percent and an expected realized
growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average planned growth rate
would come to about 3 percent with annual increments exceeding the natural
increase of the labor force by growing margins. This would permit more
vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduction of the number
of temporary migrants abroad, and an increased absorption of the rural under-
employment into the social sector. The economy will continue to be open to
the world market although the composition of foreign trade is expected to
change with a reduced share for raw material, semifinished products and con-
sumer goods on the import side, and an increased share for agricultural pro-
ducts and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers' remittances are not
expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism receipts are expected
to compensate for the expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the less developed regions in the form of loans at concessionary terms for
economic investment and budgetary grants for social development will be con-
tinued and probably will increase as a proportion of total GDP. Since most of
the natural resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in
the LDRs, they will, in addition to the transfers, benefit from the increased
emphasis on the development of basic industries and power which will to a con-
siderable degree be financed through direct financial contributions from the
consuming regions.
1.7.      The new Five Year Plan is being prepared according to the self-man-
agement principle as stipulated by the Constitution of 1974. "Self-management
planning" is perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging col-
sensuls-finding. In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and
activities) and general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth
r;-Ites of social product and the volume of savings and investment) are deter-
mined by politica1 consensus of the assemblies of the socio-political commulli-
ties (Communes, Republics and Provinces, Federation).  Subsequently, the plan-
ning process starts at the bottom with individual enterprises and communities
of interest setting out their expectations and targets.  The planning process
then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping stages of horizontal
adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily at eliminating gross
duplLcations), vertical adjustments between closely interdependent sectors and
branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of magnitudes of production,
conceptually within an input/output framework), and regional adjustments be-
tween Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal and vertical consoli-
dation). The socio-political communities participate in this process by en-
suring observance of the broad priorities, targets and constraints, and by re-
so1ving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct participants. The
evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their totality constitute
the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the form of "social con-
tracts" or "self-management agreements" which are legally binding for the
whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occur-
ing in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan, which is currently
under- preparation is, thus, expected to differ from the previous Plan in
strengthening and formalizing the commitments for implementation by enter-
prises, banks and government institutions.



-7-
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the present balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines
from COMECON countries and the EC, and efforts are being intensified to open
up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. Due to the size and structure
of external borrowing during 1974 and the years to come, the debt service
ratio is expected to increase from 15.3 in 1974 to 18.2 in 1976. Although
the debt service ratio may continue to increase gradually, it is expected to
peak around 1980 at about 19 percent and decline thereafter. However, taking
into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the
past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective
growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
19.       The Bank has made 35 loans totalling about US$1,160 million to
Yugoslavia. Of this amount approximately 50 percent (US$571.4 million) has
been for 13 loans for the transportation sector - seven for highways total-
ling US$220 million, four for railways totalling US$248 million, US$108.4
million for natural gas and oil pipelines, and $44 million for a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transporation loans, power (three loans totalling US$135 million),
telecommunications (one loan for US$40 million), three multipurpose projects
totalling US$103 million and US$6 million for a water supply and sewerage
project. Nine loans have also been made for industry and two each for tourism
and agriculture. IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises total-
ling about US$130 million. The Bank disbursed $126 million during FY75, com-
pared with $59.4 million in FY74, and about $140 million is projected for FY76.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
20.       The major objectives of current and future Bank lending to Yugoslavia
are to accelerate development in the LDRs of the country; to promote agricul-
tural development, particularly among the small private farmers by providing
basic infrastructure and credit for the financing of farm development, equip-
ment and processing facilities; to promote structural reforms in major sec-
tors of the economy through improved coordination and the strengthening of
institutions; and to provide Yugoslavia with long-term external capital and
thus help to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign exchange,



while encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other sources of
medium and long-term capital. These objectives are basically the same as
those which have guided Bank lending in previous years, but efforts to give
special support to the LDRs are being strengthened.
21.       Proposed loans of US$20 million for the Morava development project
(water supply, sewerage, and water resource planning), US$45 million for the
Sarajevo water supply and sewerage project, and US$38 million for the Sarajevo
air pollution control project have been recently submitted for your considera-
tion. Over the next two years loans envisaged for LDRs include a second loan
for agricultural credit, two loans for irrigation, and a loan for agricultural
industries. Highway, railway and power transmission projects during the same
period will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the trans-
port and energy sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new invest-
ment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical,
management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
22.        In addition to substantial assistance given in identifying and pre-
paring projects for Bank financing, the Bank is providing technical assist-
ance in several areas. A series of regional studies of the four less-devel-
oped regions of Yugoslavia was initiated three years ago and three studies,
covering Kosovo, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, have been completed. The
fourth study, of Montenegro, will be completed soon. This series will con-
tribute to better assessment of development programs and will assist both the
Governments and the Bank in formulating development strategies for these re-
gions. An energy sector review was undertaken by the Bank in cooperation
with the Federal Government to review the energy sector survey which the
Federal Government had been undertaking as well as to review the work being
done on energy problems in the individual Republics with the objective of an-
alyzing the main problems, issues and policy options for meeting Yugoslavia's
future energy needs. A Bank assisted study on the improvement of the finan-
cial mechanism has been concluded and some of its recommendations have been
included in d1raft legislation for a new banking law. Bank cooperation in a
training program for auditors of the Social Accounting Service (SDK), which
audits aLl enterprises and Government activities, including Bank financed
projects, has progressed satisfactorily and further training is underway in
cooperation with an international accounting firm.  Assistance from EDI, as
well as throiigh Bank operations, has been directed towards the improvement of
project evalntiiLon.
23.       The Ievel of Bank lending has remained constant averaging about
US$200 rmiLLion annually during the period FY74-76.  Although this represents
only a smala proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equiivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
ftLow in convertible currencies. The outstanding debt to the Bank is expected
to gradually decline from its current level of less than 10 percent of Yugos-
lavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total
clebt service was 4.0 percent in 1974 and is projected to increase to about 6
percent in 1980.



PART III - THE IND)USTRIAL SECTOR
The Role of Industry
24.        Industry has been the prime mover of Yugoslavia's economic growth
and has opened up the country to the world economy. Industrial output in-
creased at about 10% annually in real terms over the past two decades, rais-
ing its share of GMP from 23 percent in 1954 to 39 percent in 1974. Invest-
ment in the industrial sector was impressive, growing at an annual rate of
19 percent in real terms during 1954-73 representing over 47 percent of total
investment in the social sector. Industrial exports, which account for 90
percent of total goods exported, increased by 17 percent annually over the
last two decades. There has also been considerable diversification in the
export-mix with metals and engineering products accounting for about a thiird
of industrial exports, non-ferrous metals, textiles, leather, clothing and
footwear another third, and the balance being made up of forest products,
food and chemicals. Growth in employment in the sector has been notewortlhy,
5 percent annually over the 1954-74 period compared with a 4 percent increase
for the entire social sector. Industry now accounts for 39 percent of total
social sector employment compared with 33 percent two decades ago. Gains
were also recorded in productivity during the period, averaging 5 percent a
year.
Industrial Objectives
25.       Rapid development of industry (including mining and energy) is
viewed as essential to achieving high rates of economic growth and structural
changes in Yugoslavia. In general, the development of this sector has been
export-oriented and, since 1965, there has been a strong emphasis on adopting
modern technology and attaining international competitiveness. Priority is
being given to promoting basic industries, on the grounds that their develop-
ment has lagged behind in the past and has become a major constraint on growth.
Promotion of basic industries is also viewed as the main catalyst of economic
growth in the LDRs. The pursuit of this strategy has made possible the ex-
ploitation of available natural resources and provided power and other essen-
tial inputs for the development of processing industries throughout Yugoslavia
and boosted exports. Priority to basic industries was further emphasized be-
cause of their tendency to economize on scarce management, technical and
marketing expertise compared to the light industries.
26.        Aclhievement of a rapid growth in industry and exports is again one
of the maiin objectives of the 1976-80 plan period. The draft plans at both
the Federal and Regional levels stress accelerated development of basic in-
dustries to lhelp alleviate the worsening balance of payments situation. hlow-
ever, in order to ensure a balanced growth of the industrial sector, due em-
phasis is also being given to the production of semi-finished parts and pro-
ducts, and finished goods. Industry's share of total fixed asset investment
in the social sector is, therefore, expected to increase from 50 percent in



- 10 -
1971-75 to 54 percent in 1976-80. This will require substantial increases
in enterprise savings and capital transfers from abroad. The ability to tap
foreign resources will be crucial in meeting the plan objectives.
Protection and Subsidies
27.        Industry, both in the developed regions (DRs) as well as in the
LDRs, has been increasingly exposed to international competition in the last
decade or so. The level of protection is generally moderate, with the aver-
age effective tariff estimated at about 18 percent. The Yugoslav authorities
are committed to a liberalized trade system and view the maintenance of an
open economy as crucial for promoting industrial efficiency.  While indus-
tries in the DRs have, on the whole, adjusted well to this competitive situa-
tion, those in the LDRs are somewhat handicapped by structural weaknesses in
their economies resulting in comparatively lower labor productivity and higher
cost per unit of output. In order to put these regions on a more competitive
footing it has been found necessary to provide some subsidy through low in-
terest loans.
Investment in the LDRs
28.       Although the investment rate (as percent of social product) partic-
ularly in the last five years or so in the LDRs has been higher (29 percent
in 1973) than the national average (21 percent), investment per capita has
lagged by as much as 16 percent. To help overcome the limited capacity of
the LDRs to generate a sufficient volume of investment resources, Yugoslavia
has introduced two transfer schemes: (a) the Federal Fund and (b) grants
from the Federal Budget. The former mobilizes resources through a system of
compulsory loans from all enterprises in the country and on-lends the re-
ceipts to the LD)Rs according to a mutually agreed upon distribution formula
on highly preferential terms for economic investment. The latter is a pure
grant earmarked for social and current expenditures. Total transfers in 1973
amounted to DIn 5.9 billion or 2.5 percent of the social product of the DRs
and accounted for over 20 percent of total social-sector investment in the
LDRs. This demonstrates the major effort the Yugoslav commnity is making to
support its LDRs.
29.       The banks also play a prominent role in mobilizing investment re-
sources within their own regions.  As in the rest of the country, the Re-
gional banks in the LDRs assumed their present form through mergers of com-
mercial and investment banks. The recipients of the proposed loan are not
the onLy banks operating in their regions--banks from other regions have
branch offices there--but they dominate in financing investments, especially
in industry, in their respective regions. They acquire their resources from
individual and enterprise savings, borrowings from the National Bank and, to
a lesser but still important extent, from foreign credits. Most Federal
funds and regional resources are channelled through the banks which thus fi-
narice about 80 percent of industrial investment, excluding enterprise self-
financing. Since the mid-sixties suppliers' credit and loans from foreign com-
mercial banks have been the main source of external funds for the country as
a whole, although the banks in the four LDRs have lagged in attracting for-
eign loans.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The second Industrial Credit Project like the first (approved in
June 1974) would provide US$50 million to help finance small- and medium-size
industrial projects in the LDRs of Yugoslavia. The same four banks (PBS, SBS,
IBT and KBP) that participated in the first project would be the recipients of
the proposed loan. The loan amount will be divided between them in accordance
with the Federal rund allocation formula (paras. 7 and 28). The salient fea-
tures of the project are summarized in Annex III and described in detail in
Report No. 1058-YU dated May 11, 1976, "Appraisal of A Second Industrial
Credit Project", which is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The loan was negotiated in Washington during April 1976. The
Yugoslav delegation, led by Mr. Aleksander Ilic, Vice President of the Federal
Committee for Energy and Industry, included representatives of the four banks
concerned.
Background
31.       The first Industrial Credit Project, under which two loans (1012-YU
and 1013-YU) were made to two of the banks with on-lending arrangements to
the two others, is proceeding satisfactorily. The dual objectives of insti-
tution-building and providing finance for small- and medium-size industrial
projects are being achieved as envisaged. The principal focus of the institu-
tion-building effort was on the banks' project appraisals. Significant pro-
gress has been made in this area with promising results (para. 36). Audits
of the banks' accounts have been initiated, although progress has been slower
than envisaged (para. 41). Improvements in the banks' management information
systems and more regular supervision of sub-projects have also lagged and will
receive greater emphasis under the proposed loan.
32.       Bank funds provided under the first loans have been committed by the
banks at a more rapid pace than expected. By the end of April 1976 around
US$42 million of the two loans totalling US$50 million had been commited, and
a total of 64 sub-projects financed. Bank funds are currently estimated to be
fully disbursed by the end of 1977, about one year ahead of schedule. The
average size for projects above the free limit (US$200,000) was between US$2.4
million for IBT to US$4.4 million for SBS with economic rates of return ranging
between 12 percent and 45 percent.
33.       The four banks are the largest institutions of their kind in their
respective regions. They offer a full range of commercial and investment
banking services. Their investment activities are intimately related to their
regional development plans. Under the new planning process, the Plan targets
concerning investments to be undertaken are more specific and binding than
they have been in the past . The banks, however, will retain the right to
modify, approve or reject investment proposals submitted for their financing,
on the basis of their appraisal of the projects. Project appraisals by the
banks, therefore, continue to have an important bearing on the allocation of
resources.



- 12 -
34.       The Federal Banking Law of 1971 lays down the required financial
and organizational structure. The banks' operations are regulated by direc-
tives from the National Bank, and conformity to the various laws and regula-
tions is ensured through supervision by the National Bank and the Social Ac-
counting Service (SDK). In contrast to the Yugoslav enterprises which are
owned socially and thus have no shareholders or share capital, the banks are
required to have at least 25 founders (shareholders) and a minimum of Din. 50
million in founders fund (a form of equity). In reality, however, all the
large enterprises and some socio-political organizations in the regions are
founders of the respective regional bank and members of its Assembly, the
highest governing body. Individual shareholdings rarely exceed 5 percent of
total in each bank and under new banking legislation which is expected to be
promulgated this year founders will be entitled to only one vote each in the
Assembly irrespective of the amount of shareholdings.
Organization and Management
35.       In each bank, the founders' Assembly approves business policy and
the distribution of income, appoints the bank's senior executives, nominates
some of the founders to the executive board and the credit committee, and ap-
proves operating policies. The chief executive is the general manager, sup-
ported by assistant general managers who supervise operational departments.
The credit committee approves loans within specified limits. The employees
elect a workers' council which represents the staff in administrative and op-
erational matters, and in consultation with the bank's management decides in-
dividual salaries and fringe benefits for workers within the aggregate amount
approved by the founders.
36.       Senior management of the banks is competent.  Managers are typically
university graduates (mostly in economics) with many years' experience, often
in both banking and industry. Changes of top managers are infrequent, and
professional competence is the main criterion for selection and appointments.
The staff of the banks has increased by about 5-10 percent annually in recent
years and the turnover has remained low (2-3 percent). As of June 30, 1975,
the number of employees ranged from 477 in IBT to 3289 in PBS, of which about
one-fourth are professional staff, mostly economists and engineers. Despite
the frequent recourse to outside consultants for appraisals of large and/or
complex projects, the staffs of the industrial investment departments at the
head offices of the four banks appear to be overly burdened, especially the
engineering group in KBP. All the banks need to strengthen their supervision
work, which will also require additional staff.   Staff involved in the banks'
long-term investments in industry are competent in project appraisal, and are
becoming increasingly familiar with and successfully adopting the Bank ap-
proach to project analysis. The internal organization of the banks vary some-
what, but each bank has at least one department handling long-term project fi-
nancing by sectors, e.g. agriculture, industry and mining. The banks have
several branches each of which has a separate Assembly, founders fund and, ex-
cept for branches of KBP, an executive board. The branches enjoy considerable
autonomy in their operations.



- 13 -
Operating Policies
37.       Each bank has an "Annual Business Policy" which is endorsed by the
annual meeting of the founders Assembly, and is closely allied to the five-
year regional development plan. The banks retain control over individual in-
vestment decisions and can lend as much as they consider prudent to an enter-
prise. Under existing legislation the banks' exposure to a single client is
limited to 30 percent of its investment portfolio but the banks' Assemblies
are authorized to approve exceptions. Additionally, IBT has a policy of limit-
ing its financial exposure in any single enterprise to a maximum of 10 percent
of its portfolio although exceptions can be approved by its Assembly.
38.       As a general policy, the short-term resources of the banks are used
almost exclusively for short-term investments and long-term resources for
long-term investments. M4ost short-term resources are deposits and borrowings
from the National Bank of Yugoslavia through rediscount facilities. As of
June 30, 1975, short-term commitments for all four banks generally matched
their short-term resources.
39.       The interest rates for long-term funds to industrial enterprises
vary depending on the source of the funds. Rates charged by the banks on
Federal funds are usually between 4 and 6 percent per annum and, on the lim-
ited amount of Loans made from their own funds, obtained mainly from savings
and long term deposits of individuals and enterprises between 8 and ll per-
cent per annum. Resources from the Federal Fund are allocated by the banks
on the basis of sectoral and enterprise priorities agreed during negotiations
in the process of formulating regional and national development plans (para.
17). The banks have agreed (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph CO(e)),
that the rate to sub-borrowers for funds from the proposed loan wouli be 11
percent per annum. This (an increase of 1-1/2 percent over Industrial Credit
I) would approximate current market costs of foreign borrowings to Yapgoslav
investors including loans from IFC.  The sub-borrowers would assume thle for-
eign exchange risk. As in the case of the previous project, the banks have
agreed to adhere to the financiaL rate of return criteria for sub-projects,
normally at least equal to the onlending rate on 3ank funds (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, paragr;iph C6 (c)), thereby ensuring sound financing principles.
40.       It is the stated policy of each bank that its income should cover
all expenses with an adequate amouant for transfer to:  (a) the "Reserve Fund"
(substitute for provision against losses) and (b) the "Funds of the Bank as
a Working Comnmunity", the latter being used to acquire and maintain working
facilities ;ald to provide some fringe benefits to the workers. Additional
income generitionL is not a policy objective of the banks, and income sur-
pluses, if any, are returned to the enterprises or transferred to the founders
funds of the banks.  This break-even policy is reflected in the banks' lending
rates which provide for an average spread of about 1 percent over the cost of
resources. t'rofit:ability ratios have, therefore, little meaning. The banks'
level of li,*ii-ity however, is monitored by the National Bank which has estab-
lished rnil   for the purpose.



- 14 -
Audit and Portfolio Evaluation
41.       As required by  Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises are audited
by SDK which has implemented a training program for its staff with the Bank's
support (para. 22). Arrangements have been made to ensure that all Bank Group
projects, including the participant banks in the Industrial Credit Project are
audited by SDK in accordance with internationally recognized and generally
accepted accounting principles. As provided for under the first Industrial
Credit Project, audit of the four banks' accounts are underway. Some delays
have been encountered in implementing the audit program in its entirety due
to the large and complex nature of the banks' activities, the lengthy time
required to train the SDK staff, and the increased demand arising from Bank
Group projects on the auditing functions of SDK. As a result full audits of
the banks will not be achieved for another two or three years.
42.       Until full audits are completed by SDK, a thorough evaluation of
the quality of the banks' long-term loan portfoliosis difficult. As of June
30, 1975 the principal and interest in arrears as a percentage of the long-
term portfolios was small, ranging from 0.7 percent for IBT to 2.3 percent
for SBS. However, the amount of loans affected by arrears ranged between 20
percent, for both IBT and KBP, and 40 percent for PBS. Yugoslav legislation
requires banks to provide against bad debts by building up a Reserve Fund
equivalent to 5 percent of the loan portfolio. The reserves of the four
banks exceeded the arrears over three months by as much as 24 percent for
SBS to 214 percent for IBT. In the past actual reschedulings have been few
and none of the banks have experienced significant write-offs. The degree of
diversification in the banks? portfolia,provides an additional safeguard.
Projected Operations
43.       The planning horizon of the four banks is still limited to one
year within the framework of their Annual  Business Policy.  However, to fa-
ciLitate the appraisal for the proposed loan, each bank prepared five-year
projections of its operations and finances based primarily on the draft Plan
(1976-80) for its region and its estimate of anticipated resources. Medium-
tern planning by the banks is being encouraged by the Federal Government and
the Bank and is one of the objectives of the proposed loan.
44.       The forecasts indicate that short-term resources over the next five
years will grow at about 8 percent a year in constant prices and will just
about cover the short-term operations. SBS is the only one of the four banks
expected to use part of its short-term funds to finance long-term operations.
45.       The draft Plans for the LDRs show fixed assets investment in the
industrial sector during the next five years at Din 121 billion. Of this the
banks expect to finance Din 63.5 billion, or 52 percent. The ability of the
banks to meet these Plan projections will depend heavily on how successful
they are in mobilizing domestic and foreign resources. The projected cash
floW statements of the banks indicate that together they will need to mobilize
Din 48.6 billion during the Plan period from domestic and foreign sources yet



- 15 -
to be identified if they are to meet their forecast requirements for invest-
ment in all sectors. About half of the investments to be financed out of
long-term resources during 1976-80 have already been identified, at least in
a tentative fashion, by each bank in terms of specific projects.
46.        The import component of the planned industrial investment for the
LDRs is expected to be about 30 percent, or Din 36 billion. The banks are
expected to place increased reliance on mobilizing foreign resources either
directly or through the National Bank to finance these imports. Enterprises
would, however, continue to depend on purchases of foreign currency from the
National Bank and on suppliers' credits for most of their foreign exchange
requirement.
47.        The proposed loan will help finance small- and medium-size indus-
trial projects excluding agroindustries some of which are being financed under
other Bank loans. Based on information on the banks' investment financing in
the past and their estimate of the future, the share of such investment is
likely to amount to about 20 percent of the four banks' industrial investment
financing during 1976-80. The proposed loan of US$50 million would account
for approximately 15 percent of the banks' projected commitments for the tar-
get group of investment for 2 years from mid-1976. Over the expected dis-
bursement period of the proposed loan (1977-79), Bank financing (including
disbursements under Industrial Credit I) would account for about 10 percent
of the four banks' disbursements to the target group and about 25 percent of
the import component of these projects. Each bank's pipeline of small- and
medium-sized industrial projects qualifying for Bank assistance shows sub-
stantial demand for foreign exchange financing and supports the need for con-
tinued Bank lending.
48.        The banks projected financiaL statements and cash flows sliow satis-
factory debt-service coverage through 1980. The National Bank and SDfK are
also expected to continue their close surveillance of the banks' liquidity.
High long-term debt/ equity ratios prevail, particularly in case of IBT and
KBP (14:1 and 17:1 respectively). Such high ratios do not, however, pose a
danger to the banks' solvency as about 54 percent (PBS) to 77 percent (KBP)
of the bank's long-term debt are loans from Federal or Republic authorities.
Exclusion of these funds from the calculations reduces IBT's ratio to 8:1 and
KBP's to 4:1. The Governmnent may be expected to take additional measures that
may become necessary to ensure the banks' creditworthiness. In the past, for
example, loarns to enterprises made by the banks from the Federal and Republic
Funds were converted into grants. Transfers were also made from the Federal
and Republic Funds to the banks' managed funds accounts. These accounts con-
sist of substantial funds which the banks manage at no risk to themselves on
behalf of tt-e Federal and Republic Governments and socio-political organiza-
tions.  Swcli measures have the effect of keeping the banks' debt from growing
too fast in relation to their equity.
The Loan - Objectives and Features
49.        la addition to providing foreign exchange resources to Yugoslavia
to final e industr-iaL development, the proposed loan pursues the complementary



- 16 -
objectives of (i) supporting the Yugoslavs' efforts to reduce regional econo-
mic imbalances through the development of a modern, efficient and competitive
industrial base for the economy of the four LDRs, and (ii) institution-build-
ing of the four banks, related essentially to their long-term industrial op-
erations. Institutional aspects that will receive particular attention dur-
ing the Second Industrial Credit Project are the strengthening of the banks'
project staff, especially for supervision work; strengthening of project ap-
praisal techniques, and the use of financial and economic rate of return an-
alysis for projects other than those financed by the Bank loan; improving man-
agement information systems and implementing internationally recognized audit-
ing standards; and adopting a medium-term (about 5 years) operational and fi-
nancial planning horizon.
50.       The proposed loan would be repaid according to an amortization sche-
dule based on a composite of individual amortization schedules for sub-loans.
Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a period not exceeding 15 years, in-
cluding grace periods of normally up to three years and in cases of co-financ-
ing of foreign exchange costs (paras. 51 and 53) up to six years (Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 5, paragraph C6(e)). Unlike Industrial Credit I which consti-
tuted two loans one each to PBS (1013-YU) and SBS (1012-YU) with predeter-
mined portions on-lent to IBT and KBP respectively, the Bank would under the
proposed project, provide separate loans (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1) to each
of the four banks through a single loan agreement and maintain a single loan
account. The borrowers have designated SBS the fiscal agent for the proposed
project (Loan Agreement, Sec. 2.11).
51.       Small and medium-size projects with a total cost of normally up to
US$6.0 million would be eligible for Bank financing under the proposed loan.
flowever, in cases where the Bank sub-loans are supplemented by other foreign
exchange financing, projects with total costs of normally up to US$10.0
million would also be eligible (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph C6(b)).
52.       As is normally the case with development finance company loans,
the proposed loan will have a sub-loan free limit and an aggregate free limit
for each bank. In recognition of the progress made by the four banks in proj-
ect appraisal work the free limit on individual projects has been set at
JS$500,000 (Loan Agreement, Sec. 2.02(b)). It was US$200,000 under Industrial
Credit I. The aggregate free limit has also been increased from around one-
fouLrth to about 40 percent of each recipient bank's share of the loan. This
would allow the Bank to review for approval an average of about four or five
sub-projects per bank or in total about one-fourth of some 60 to 80 projects
vxpected to be financed by the proposed loan.
53.       Disbursements from the loan account would be made on the basis of
the foreign exchange costs of goods and services. The loan would provide for
a m.aximum of normalLy US$2.5 million to be disbursed for any one project (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph C6(b)). The balance of foreign exchange re-
quired would come from other sources like suppliers' credits or the foreign
exchange retention quotas of the enterprises themselves. To encourage blend-
ing of Bank funds with foreign exchange from other sources, which are expected



- 17 -
to be mainly medium-term suppliers' credit, grace period on the Bank sub-
loans may be allowed up to 6 years depending on the merits and needs of in-
dividual projects.
Implementation
54.       The two existing Units each comprising members from the borrower and
its Associate bank (to which pre-determined amounts of the first Bank loan was
on-lent) would be dissolved after the funds from the Industrial Credit I proj-
ect are fully committed. A new Unit to be formed (Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.01
(b)) under the proposed loan would assume their administrative and coordinating
functions. This new Unit would be composed of a Sub-Unit from each of the four
banks. The four Sub-Units, each comprising three representatives of its bank,
would review the loan applications for investment projects financed by its
bank to ensure compliance with the criteria established under the proposed
loan. Subloan applications for projects will be submitted directly by each of
the banks. This change was prompted by the improvements in the banks' project
appraisals and their ability to submit satisfactorily appraised projects to
the Bank.
55.       The Unit, through the Sub-Units, will advise and assist each bank
in the supervision of sub-projects, but the main responsibility for supervi-
sion, as well as project appraisal, will rest with the banks themselves.
The primary function of the Unit, as opposed to the Sub-Units, will be to co-
ordinate the preparation of progress reports on the loan and on the banks' op-
erations, as well as other information requested by the Bank from time to
time, in a systematic and consistent manner. It will also serve as the medium
for exchanges of views between the Bank and the four borrowers. The banks
have agreed to establish and maintain the Unit and Sub-Units and ensure that
they operate in accordance with the "Statement of Operations and Policies for
the l'roject" (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHIORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Privredna Banka
Sarajevo, Stopanska Banka Skopje, Investiciona Banka Titograd and Kosovska
Banka Pristina; the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank; the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement; and, the
text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan and Guarantee
Agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for development finance
company projects hut the Loan Agreement has been modified to reflect the
applicable joint and several obligations of the four borrowers.
57.       Special features of the Loan are discussed in paragraphs 49
through 53.



- 18 -
58.       An additional condition of loan effectiveness is that the four
Sub-Units and the Unit shall have been established by the borrowers and their
members shall have been appointed by the borrowers under arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sec. 6.01).
59.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President



AlIIR I
TABLE 3A                                               Page 1 of 4 Pages
YUGOSLAVIA             - SOCIAL  INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                      -------------
---------------                                         YUGOSLAVIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES 119702
TOTAL        255.8                                             MOST RECENT
AGl{tC.       1414. 3                         1960        1970    ESTIMATE             RIOMANIA, REP  SPAIN            GERMANY, FED. REP. *
GNP PFR CAPITA  (USE)                           360.0        74J.0        1010.0                  n.a. /a   12bO.0         421J.3
POPULATILFN AND VITAL STATISTICS
FllPUIATlION (MII'-YR, MIll IUN)               18.4         20.4         21.0                   20.3         33.6          60.7
POPULATIOTN DENSITY
PFR S1I1ARE KM.                             72.0         8d.0          '2.0                  85.0          66.0        240.0
PER SCJAARE KM. AGLIC.  LANL                   ..           ..        145.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRJJIE  ilRTH I-ATE' p r' THOUSAND          24.0          17.8         18.0                  21.1          19.6          13.4
CRUDF OFArH WAIF Pri THiI.I;SAIq)           10.0           8.9          8.7                   9.5           8.5          12.1
INFANT MURTALITY FATF (/THI-ij              r8.0         55.5          43.3                  49.4          27.0         23.6
LIFi FXPECTANCY  AT tsIkTH  IYIlS)          e2.3         67.0,a        68.0                  68.6          71.0         70.3
G5 SS RFPR.OIUCT If)(, F ATt                 1.3           1.3           1.3                   0.9          1.4           1.2
PLIPJLS! IOC  IP01T.  ,ATI I ()
TOTTAL                                       1.2           1.1          1.0                    1.0          1.1           1.0
''A- .N                                      6.o          11.6            ..                  3.4           1.9          14.1
UkBAN POPULATIPN h. I I- r 1ALL                27.2         35.7          39.0                  41.0         59. 1         82.1
AGF STkRCTIURF  PEe CrTA)
0 10 14 YEAiS                              '1.0         26.9          26.9                  25.9          27.8         23.2
15 TI 64 YEA'S                              63.0         65.1          65.1                  65.5          62.5         63..,
ts YEA'tS AIX  OVE0                          6.0           8.0          8.1)                   8.6          9.7         13.2
AGE DEPENDENCLY RATIO                           J.6          0.5           0.5                   0.5          0.6           0.6
FTLIN[iMIC TEPfNDENCY RATEl,                    1.0           ..           0.9                   0.7          1.1           0.9
FAMILY PLANNINt,-
ACCEPTOIPS  ICIIMIJLATIVF. THOIU)
USERS (CX OF RAFRLEI' WOIMEN)                  ..           ..            ..                    ..
EM PLOY.MEN T
TOTAL 1 ALk FtlRCE tTHI USANO)              83i.0              .. o8900.0                    9900.0       11900.0      26500.0
LABlp rUkcE it AuR ICIILTIJ'E ("I             57.J            ..         45. 0                 49.0          24.8           8.9
UNEMPLOYED IS i F Lm14  FO"CEI                  7.0 /a        *            3.3 /a                 . .         2.0 /a        0.7
INCLME oIST.IIULTION
g OF PRIVATh INCOME SEFC'U 8Y-
iIIHGFET  S5 '4F HoUSEHoLDS                 16. 4 /b      15.1          6.. 3 /b
HIGHFST zO  Of HOUSEHOLDS                  41.5 7W       41.4            ..
LIRWSFT 709 lti  liOUSEHOLDS                 6.9 7W       6.6             **                 24.3 /c
LOwFST 403 (IF  HOUSEHOLDS                  19.0 /b       18.4           ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LANE  LeNERSHIP
______________________________
I OWNED 8Y TOP 10'] ci OWNERS                    ..         15.1  b         .. 
T wEDi EY SMALLEST  Ir  OWNFERS                  ..         84.9 Ic         ..
HEALTH li.) MiTT !T IN
PG00U0ATION PRE' PHIYSICIPN                 1400.3 /a   1010.0          900.0                  6o.oD        750.0  /b   583.0
? 1'UL T 1iN PI , Nw';' I5D'; (  ',          500.0 JaL   413.0          380.0                 20. 0        1430.0        350 .0
OTIII \T ICN Pr- If-SPI TAL  -EOf)           10 3. 0       180.0        170.0/b               120.0         220.0         90.0
  CA, ITS SUI, LY  IF -
* 4,4 fES 14,  .l  IRLIEFNTS)            115.0         124.0        125.0                 118.0         107.0         12 .0
P-11I,7- IN (tI il   TER DAY)              51.0          92.0         94.0                   92.3         81.0          S8.0
-nF cHIL a*?IIMAL AT LI PULSE             27.J         29.0            *-                  23.0         40.0          5o.0
F ArH R5 3TF (/1  ' 4 ' 6S 1-4                ..7 /a       2.5          2.5                    3.0          0.9           0.9
LENjL T 1.IN
'flJOST'r-1 rI1ME>l L     cOI sl 
P,I,[iA"Y SC' 'i                            96.0         94.0          96.0                 112.0         131.0        117.0 /a
SFCT7NOASY   'TIm IL                        j4.0U        4j.0          418.0                 16.o          57.0         45.0 7a
YE At S OP fS1-IL I N,, P.IVI)iE
1F)43T ANL   C       lEVEL )                12.0         L2.0          12.0                  14.0         13.0          1S.3
VC0STT 1NLt L .  LL I-F:T
`I?IS UfrTf;4.Y(                           712.0         72.0         74 *J                  58.0 /d       20.0         48.0/a
A4IULT LIYT-F' .4iT'- I                        1 77.0       b5.L,           ..                  99.0         94.0          99 .0
PSF5/SciS PE-  0050M (LVcR"A01                  1. 7           1.1-                              1.3 /e         ..          0.7/b
JCCLIPlISIOt)WE- LL[INNS A ITiHUIT
PLPE ) hAT' r II                              .6.           . .        As.0 /c               39.(1 /e.f      ..           1.3/c
ACCrSS  III  1_ '.TSlCITY
TX JI- ALL  MIL5INGS)                      535.0            ..         83.0                  49.0 /e         ..        IJ).J
Rllf( `I,L     I"b  t.    1  1,6S   ((. 461'L T--
TlI -I FfCIT    I IY  I )                   '6.0            ..         30.0                  27.0 U/e
TO`NSIl orII  
X6511      ClI VE 'S Ir'TE  FHIIJ PCSO         14.0        1 3.0        176.0                 152.0         214.0         31d.0
5355F'SSFiL' LAkS (PEI   T i(ll  P)?)          3.0          35.0         54.0                     ..         70.0        223.0)
A-!CT7TCITY  (KaHl/YI, P-  CAP)              529.0       12bo.1)       1570.0                1615.0        1627.0       4128.0
NIfAE"-. aliT  I G/Y K ERk LAf   I              2.3          4. 3          3.5                   2.6          5.8          17.5
I iT'. A.D Ui-F INI TIS (1I,.,  N i(SEVF1tS



ANNDX I
Page 2 of 1 pages
NOTES
Unless  theraise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Rocent Estimate between
1971 and 1973.
- Selection of Fedoral Republic of Germany as an objective country is based on the close economic ties oaintained by the two countries, as weLl as on
the fact that the greater part of Yugoslavia's around one million workers temporarily abroad have found eoployment in the Federal Republic of
Germany.
YUGOS3AVIA            1960    /   1962;    b 1963;   a  Inoluding midwiven and midwifery, and nursing auxilaries.
1970    /.  1966-67;   a  Agricuiture land held by Social Sector Esabinate;   /. Agrioulture land held by private somall-
holders.
MOST PECENT ESTIMATE: /a  Ratio of registered job seekers to active population;   /b  Government hospitals only;  /c  Water
piped inside.
EOMANIA               1970     /   Tie   culation of these figures is under discussion; based on information nupplid by the Eomanian Government, and
using a currency conversion rate of 20 Iei to the U5$, the per capita GNP would aoount to $990 for 1973, and the
preliminary estimate for 1974. would be $910. These figures are, hooever, not sLrictly comparable with those for
other reference countries, as presented here;    b  Percent of oa.aried workers earoing more then 2, 500 tli;
/c  Percent of calaried ,*orkers earning less than 1,100 tei;  /d  Nill-tim  educetico only;   /e  1966;  /f  Piped
4_.. -r iide Only;  /9 Ratio of population under 15 s,d i5 -d ovor to total inebr force.
SPAIN                 1970   /a  hegistered unemployed;    b  Regiscered,  -oo a1 pr-cticic.t in Xe to l'jry
GEERAiY. FEI). PEP.   1970   /a  Includes the relevant data relating to Berlin for which separate dote have not been supplied;   /- b-tel, cries n.d
roral;  /c  Inside nly.
R12, May 3, 197f
DEFINITITONS OF SOCIAL IlDICATOES
and Area (thou 1n2)                                                                  Populaticn Per nursing person - Population divided by number of pr,cticing
Total _ Total surfacs area comprising land ares and inland waters,.                    male and female graduate nurses, "trained" Or "certified" nurses, and
Agic. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or per-             auxiliery personnel with training or experience.
aesantly for crops, pastures, Market & kitehen gardens or to lie fallow.           Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public end private general end epecialised hospital and
GNP per capita (0S$) - GNP per capita estimates at market prices,  calcu-              rehabilitation centerso oecludes nursing ires end establiohmeots for
leted by same cno,ersiom  method as World Bank Atlss (1972-74 basis).                custodial and preventive care.
;Per capita Supply of eIois(  frsheot)-Cmue  cneeg
Population end vital statistics                                                        equivalent of net food supplies availabLe in country per capita per day;
Population  mid-yr. million) - As of July first; if not available, average             available supplies comprise demestie production, imports leon experts,
of two end-yesr estimates.                                                           and changes in stoek; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities
used in feed processing end losses in dietribetion; roquiremento were
Population density - per sotqare km - Mid-year population per square kilo-             estimated by FAO based on physinlogieel reeds for norm cetivity
meter (100 hectare   of intol are.                                                   and health considering environMental temperetore, body weights, age and
Population density -per square he of agric. land - Computed a  absoe for               sex distributiona of population, and allowing 10% for waste et household
agricultural land only.                                                              level.
Vital statisticsPer eap-tLa nsupply of  fote                                                                        (g   par day) - Protein content of per
Cttal bteirticrs                                                                       capita net SUPPLY of food pr dtay; net Supply of feod is defined as
Crd   it   at  Per thousand - Snoosl live births per thousand of old-           above; requdraeetst for all countries established by USDA G-oonsic
year popoi,tions; ost ly five-year a-verg   ending in 1960, 1970 and                 Reea. rch Sevies provide for e  inimus al owano  of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries.                                                       protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse prptein, of which 10
Crude death rate per thousand - Adoual deaths per t.housand Of mid-year                Cnram  should be animal protein; these stapdards are lower than those of
pOpolation; ouly fivea-Year avereges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   75 grOans of totIal protein and 23 gros  of aniel protein as en average
for developing countries.                                                            for the world, proposed by FAO ie the Third World Pond Survey.
rnfant mortality rtai (thou) - Annual deaths of infants ender ens year               Par capita protein supply from animal and Pulee - Protein supply ef food
ct' age perthbu   ive births.                                                         _vdered from animal' and pulses in grams per day.
Life ee.ta.vtatbirthf(yrs) - Average nmber Of years of life remain-                  Death rate (/thou) ages 1-s - Annual deatha per thousand in age group 1-4
ing at birth; usuaL       S five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and              years, to children  in this ego group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developi.g countries.                                                       nutrition.
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will
hear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-             Education
.specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,              AdJute.d enrollment ratio -                  - Enrollment of all ages as
*.971 and 1975 for developing countries.                                             poreesage of privary schoIol-ag  population; inoludeo chlld-e: aged
Populotien growth rate (9) - total - Compound annual growth rates of oid-              6-11 years but adjosted for different lengths of primary edention;
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, end 1960 to most recent year.                  for ccuntries with universal education, enrollment may exceed OO%
Population growth rate (9) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                since some popils- are below or above the official school age.
populatiom; different definitites of urban areas sup affect compare-               Adjusted enroLment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-
hbbliy of dats amog countries.                                                       a-y edscotion requires at leant four years of appreved primary instrue-
Urban population (9 of total) - Ratio of urban te total population; dif-               tion; provides general, vocetioral or teacher training inoirnotions fo
forent definitions of urban areas say affect comparebility of data                   pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence  courses are generally
among oountries.                                                                     ecluded.
Age,pstucturefrpggent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 Years),          Teem  of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
aN    tir        ea  and over) as percentages of mid-year populatio.                 9cheoling; at secondary level, vocatiomel instruction may be partiolly
Age dependency ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                or completely exmluded.
those  f agerS 15 th,rogh 6b4.                                                     Vocational enrollment (, of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
Ecosomic dependency  ontio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over              technical, industrial or sther programs which operate independently or
to tie labor force to age  group of 15-64 years.                                     as departrents of secondary institution.s
Pamiiy plennieg - aoeept,orn (cduouative. thoud ) -ns es tnative  umber o            Adult liteacy rt    )- terpate adults (abie to read end write) as per-
accePtors of binth-coctr-  deviceo  -ider aceptee  of noti-us1 fenity                cetage of Ltot al dot population aged 15 ycOo- andoe
planning program since inception.
Family planning - users (9 of married anmen) - Percentages of married                Hooing
women of child-bearing  Yge (19-ti years) wvi  use birth-control dn-               Persons per room (average) - Average number of persons per room in oecupied
voon to all married wemen in same age group.                                        cosventional duellings in aben areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Hhplgyme-t                                                                             ntructures end unoccupied ports.
Obmslovnent                                                     Occu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. p'ied Z.olin _ wihut )piped wtr()-Ocpe ovninldel
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persocs, including                  irgo in urban end rural arnas without inside or outside piped water
armed forces acid unemployed btt occluding ;xuslvee, students, etc.-                 facilitis aso percent-ge of sit -oupied dwelirg.
definitions in various countries are not compar-ble.                               Acens tno electricity (9 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Iabor force in agriculture (t) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                 eleetricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
forestry, hunting and fishing) so percentage of total labor forne.                   and rural areas.
Unemployed (6 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons            R,,ral dwelings onnectd to electricity (9) - Computed as above for creal
who are able and willing to take a job, out of a Jib on a given day,                 dwellings  _l
remined out of o Job, end seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding eone  eek; may not be comparable between Ocun-                Consumption
triee  due to different definition-  of unemployed end snurce of data,             Sadie receivers (per thou Pop) - All types of reOivers for radio bread-
e.g., employment office statistic-, sample surveys, compulsory nam-                  casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unliose,ed
piopesnt insurance.                                                                  receivers in couptries end in yearn when registration of radio sets was
Incoma distrib                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in effect; date for recant years may not be comparabl.e since mo,st ceun-
Gooses distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash end                   tr es abol hted licensing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, pnorest 20%, and poorest                Passenger core (per thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motor cors seating
40% of households.                                                                   less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
veiles. 
Distribution of land ownership - Percenia of of lend owned by wealthiest             Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Asnual consumption of industrial, coommer-
109 and poorest 109 of lend owners.                                                  cisl, poblic and priests eleotricity in kilrwatt hburs per capita; gen-
Health -d N,It,iti..                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~erally booed no production data, without allowance for lenses  in grids
Health and Noerition                                                                   but allowing for importo end eop'rt o f alectricity.
Population per physician - Population  divided by number of practicing               Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per cOpita annual consumption in kilograms
physicians qualified frox a medical school at university level.                      estimated from domentic production plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECOXN1IC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Avounts in Nillion US Dollars)
3/                          Actual             1/      Proiected
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS-                        1972      1973     1974     19752/   1976                  1965-72       1972-75      1973-76       1972      1974     1976
Constapt 1974 Prices asd Exbhare Rate7of $1417.0 Din.                Awerage Anaual Growth Rates             As Peroeot of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                   21,638   22,720   24,765   25,887   27,033                    5.6          6.2            6.0        97.8    100.0    100.6
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)              +468     +681       -        -175     -150                                                          2.2       -        0.6
Groso Dooeotic Icoose                    22,106   23,401   24,765   25,712   26,884                    5.5          5.2            4.7       100.0    100.0    100.0
Importr  (tool. NFS)                      6,588    7,600    8,312    8,036    8,216                   12.6          6.9           2.6         29.7      33.6     30.6
Exports (intl. NFS)                       5.437    5.788    5.694    5.678    6.187                    8.8          1.5            2.3        24.5      23.0     23.0
Resource Gap                              1,151    1,812    2,618    2,358    2,029
Consumption Expenditures                 16,139   17,716   19,953   20,151   20,639                    6.7          7.7            5.2        73.0      80.6     76.8
Inve-tmeot Eopeoditureo (ifol. stocks)  6,650    6,816    7,429    8,095    8,424                      6.0          6.8           7.3         30.0     30.0      31.3
Notios.l Savings                          6,904    6,806    6,241    7,169    7,756                    6.6          1.3           4.5         31.2     25.2      28.8
Domestic Savings                          5,499    5,004    4,812    5,736    6,394                    3.1         1.4            8.5         24.9     19.4      23.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                               Annual Data At Current Prices                                                                As a Percentage of Total
ImportS
Capital Goods                           688.6   1003.8   1306.0   1909.5   2132.3
Petroleum                                82.5    219.8    681.2    730.9    818.4                                                           21.3      17.4     23.6
Iotermediate Goods                     1953.9   2589.1   4560.8   4659.8   5268.8                                                           63.1      69.7     67.5
Cunsumption Foods                       502.3    698.0    970.0    792.3    798.3                                                           15.6      12.9      8.9
Total Merch. Tports (c.i.f.)           3227.3   4510.7   7518.0   8092.5   9017.8                                                          100.0    100.0    1O0.0
Exports
Capitol Goods                           316.1    389.3    514.0    655.0    776.9                                                           14.1      13.5     16.0
Textile and Loather Products            382.4    409.2    477.0    548.0    630.0                                                           16.2      12.5     13.4
No-Ferous Metalurgy                     272.0    324.6    556.0    458.0    585.1                                                           12.2      14.6     12.1
Agricultural produce (incl. food)       476.0    621.6    604.0    503.0    591.2                                                           21.3      15.9     12.2
Other                                   810.7   1107.9   1654.0   1824.0   2248.3                                                           36.2      43.5     46.3
Total Meroh. Soports (f.o.b.)          2237.2   2852.6   3805.0   3988.0   4851.5                                                          100.0    100.0    100.0
MERCA'dDISE TRAsDE INDICES                                  1974-100
Efport Prior lode.                       63.0     76.0    100.0    107.0    108.0
Ioport Price Index                       58.0     68.0    100.0    111.0    121.0
Termr  of Trade Inden                   109.0    112.0    100.0      96.0      98.0
Eoport Volume Indeo                      93.3     98.4    100.0    100.0    110.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                     annual D.ata i  Coostent 1974 Prices end
Exchange Rate of $1=17.0 Din.                                                                 As Percertage of Total
Agriculture                             3213     3496      3765     3727      3876                   2.7          5.1            3.5        15.6      16.0     15.1
Manufacturing & Mining                  6374     6712      7471     7930      8379                   6.6          7.6            7.7        31.0      31.8     32.6
Other                                  10956    11362    12276    12927    13418                     5.4          5.7           5.7         53.3      52.2     52.3
lotu1                                  20543    21570    23512    24584    25873                     5.3          6.2            6.0       100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE4                                          Current Prices                                                                      As Perceot of GDP/liarkit Prioes
Current Receipts                       2772.0  3489.0       ..        ..       ..                    ..           ..             ..         17.5
Corrnet Expenditures                   2520.8   3154.8      ..        ..       ..                    ..           ..             ..          1.6
Budgetry Saviogs                        251.2    334.2      ..        ..       .,                    ..           ..             ..          1.6
Public Sector Investment                224.9    281.3      ..        ..       ..                    ..           ..            ..           1.4
VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (CONSTANT 1974 PRICES AND EXChANGE
LABOR FORCE AND OUOTPUT PER WORKER 1974        I    l               TOTAL LABOR PORCR                                                   RATE OF $1-17.0 Din.)
Io Milliosa    2 of Total                1972-74                      Io UN Dollars   Percent of Average                1977-74
6/                               1972   1974    1972  1974       Average Anoual Growth RatO             1972      1974   1972           1974    Average Arnual GrowtE Rato
Agriculturec                                  3.9    3.8    47.8  45.0                 -1.9                          823      1003   32.7           35.6               10.4
Manufaoturing and Mining                      1.6    1.7    19.1  20.4                   4.3                        4075     4395  162.1           155.8                3.9
Other                                         2.7    2.9    33.1  34.6                   3.2                        4050     4258  161.1          150.9                 2.5
Tutr1 6/                                      8.2    8.3   100.0 100.0                   1.0                        2514     2821  100.0           100.0                5.9
1/ Preliminary.
2/ Estimate.
3/ Figures may not add exactly due to rounding.
4/ Fedorarton, Republics sod Aotonomous Pro-in.esa rd Co-osme,;  figures cannot be projected
Feocuau of the far reaching effeoto of the new Constituti-o on the role of he Stale and
the sile of its budget.
5/ Totel resident sotivo lsber foroe.
6! Labor force Ln agriculture and non-agrioultural private employment, and, accordingly,
total employment economy are estimates.
Europe, Middle East 6 North Africa Region
Februery 12, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYM1ETS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTA1NCE AND DEBT
Average Annual
Actual               Estimated       Projected        Growth Rates
1972     1973      1974         1975             1976             1972-75
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (ifcl. NFS)                      3425      4407      5694         6088             7319              21.1
Imports (incl. NFS)                      3821      5168      8312        8891              9961              32.5
Resource Balance (X-M)                   -395      -761    -2618        -2803             -2642
Interest                                 -165      -222      -285        -305              -407              22.7
Workers Recittasces                        889     1310      1511         1700             1926              24.1
Other factor services net                   17       50        93           70               -               60.3
Current Transfers (net)                     74       87       110          120              132              17.5
Balance on Current Account                419       454    -1189        -1218              -991
MOLT Loans-
Disbursements                           943      1170      1426        2101              2449              30.6
-Repavmnt6                              -570      -686      -814       -1106            -1279               24.7
Net Disbursements                          373      484       612          995             1170              38.7
Capital Transactims n.e.i.-/             -117      -285       139          320               -
Use of Reserves                          -675      -663       438          -97             -179                                            Actual
Estimated
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITTMENTS                                                                   DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                   1972    1973    1974    1975
Official Grants & Grant-like                -        -         -            -               Public Debt Out. & Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans                                                                           Interest on Public Debt                 63.1    96.4   102.6   114.5
IBRD                                   75.0    104.9    256.5             -              Repayments on Public Debt              154.1   208.0   288.1   313.3
IDA                                      -         -         -           -               Total Public Debt Service              217.3   304.4   390.7   427.8
Other Multilateral                       -         -         -            -               Other Debt Service (net)              634.5   722.6   821.4   975.1
Governments                           182.9    175.0    612.7             -               Total Debt Service (net)              851.8  1027.0  1212.1  1502.9
Suppliers                              82.3       3.1        .6           -                                         4/
Financial Institutions                142.0      19.4    367.5            -               Burden on Export Earnings7(%)
Bonds                                    -         -         -           -
Public Loans n.e.i.                      -         -         -            -               Public Debt Services Ratib              5.0      5.3      5.4     5.5
Total Public M&LT Loans                 482.2    302.4   1237.3                             Total Debt Service Ratio               19.7    18.0    16.8    19.3
TDS - Direct Investment Inc.              -       -        -       -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1974
EXTERNAL DEBT                              Disbursements Only        Percent                  Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                      424.6                19.9
IDA                                               -                    -                      Int. as % Prior Year D06D              4.7     5.9      5.4     5.4
Other Multilateral                                6.9                   .3                    Amort as % Prior Year DO&D           11.4    12.8    15.1    14.7
Governments                                    1149.7                53.8
Suppliers                                       143.6                 6.7                   IbRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Fipancial Institutions                          392.5                18.4                        as % Public Debt O&D               19.5    18.4    19.9        -
Bonds                                            19.0                   .9                    "  as % Public Debt Services          14.7    12.6    11.3    11.6
Public Debt n.e.i.                                 .3
2136.6               100.0
Other M&LT Debts                               2833.2
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account.
National Bank and Comesercial Bask Credits.
3I Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
4/ Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle Rast 6 North Africa Region
February 12, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at March 31, 1976)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower                Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Fifteen Loans fully disbursed                                       434.7
657      1970   Yugoslav Investment Bank    Telecommunications   40.0          0.2
751      1971   SFRY                           Roads                 35.0      0.4
752      1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran    Tourism                  10.0      3.6
777      1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water   45.0    34.7
782      1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism                 20.0      9.9
836      1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia   Power                   75.0    23.1
894      1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0    12.3
916      1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    24.8
947      1973   Kikinda                        Iron Foundry           14.5     4.3
965      1974   IMT                            Tractor Factory        18.5     1.5
966      1974   FOB                            Iron Foundry           15.0     8.5
990      1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                 Roads                  30.0      4.4
1012     1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit    28.0    22.2
1013     1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit    22.0    18.6
1026     1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways               93.0    76.3
1060     1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion      44.0    43.8
1066     1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      6.0
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural Credit  50.0    50.0
1143     1975   Republic Road Organization
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                 Roads                  40.0    40.0
1173/a   1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline              49.0    49.0
lotal (less cancellation)                                 1160.1   433.6
of which has been repaid                                   136.3
Tnotnl aIow outstanding                                   1023.8
Aiouint sold                            7.8
ol whiich:  Amount repaid             6.2                  1.6
TotaL now held by Bank                                    1022.2
TotlL undisbursed                                                  433.6
/a   Not yet. effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1976)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation  Investment
for Yugoslavia                        Corporation      -       2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.        Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Mororjev          Automotive
Maribor (TA1)/Klockner-Humboldt       Industry          7.5    2.1       9.6
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler               Automotive
Benz  A.G.                            Industry         12.7    2.7      15.4
1972   Sava/Semperit                            Tires            4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bell                             Pulp and Paper 13.3       -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO                 Special Steel  10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                           Cement Plant   10.0      -       10.0
1975   Rudarsko Melaturski                      Steel           50.0     -       50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                   112.5   16.3    128.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                      57.8    2.2      60.0
Total commitments held by IFC                              54.7   14.1      68.8
Total Undisbursed                                          33.6    5.8      39.4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20, 1970;
Effective Date: August 30, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1976.
After initial delays the Bank-financed part of the project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and is now nearing completion. The installation of
trunk exchanges which are not financed by the Bank, has been delayed and.
will be fully completed shortly. We are in communication with the borrower
with respect to the undisbursed balance of $200,000.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective Date:
June 2, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well.  All road sections but one are open for traffic.  Completion
of the remaining section has been delayed due to lack of funds. While costs
have increased, future earmarked revenues from fuel taxes, particularly on
purchases of fuel by Italian motorists crossing the border to buy cheaper
fuel in Yugoslavia, have decreased. The final section is now expected to be
completed by September, 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
There have been delays in implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective, appointing consultants, providing the
necessary infrastructure and approvals by local authorities. As a result
disbursements are behind schedule. Bids received in July 1974 indicated that
the project, if it were to be implemented as originally envisaged (2,500 beds)
would cost approximately 100 percent above the originally estimated cost of
llS$25.6 million. This increase was mainly due to rapid inflation in construc-
tion costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a re-
duced complex containing some 1,616 beds (Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December
16, 1974, R74-258). The total cost would be US$39.9 million requiring addi-
tional financing of about US$14 million. Financing for the revised project
l.as been agreed upon. The port hotel is scheduled for pre-opening occupancy
ia ApriL, 1976 and the village hotel complex is scheduled to open in May 1976;
however, serious construction problems with regard to the foundations were
eacountered in the case of the cliff hotel, the completion of which has been
Ielayed until October, 1976.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date: Mlay 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction is
iow underway with the main dam scheduled for completion by late 1976.  A small
part of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder expected
to be completed in 1978. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates
but the overrtn financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo.  Delays
have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjustment and agricul-
tural extension services. Consultants have been recently engaged to help find
solutions.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There have been delays in the implementat.ion of the project due
to delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Ac-
cordingly disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems have
now been largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule.
Bids for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the
project would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9
million). This increase is largely due to rapid inflation in construction
costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a reduced
complex containing some 2,034 beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16,
1974, R74-259). The total cost would be US$51.5 million requiring additional
financing of about US$1.6 million. This additional financing for the revised
project has been arranged but in light of the increased financial commitments
necessary from the local banks and a re-evaluation of the financial capabilities
of the sponsor necessary to implement a project of this size, the local banks
and the Borrower have proposed and are discussing with the Bank a change in
sponsorship. This proposed change in sponsorship will be submitted to the
Executive Directors for their consideration after being fully reviewed by
the Bank. Meanwhile, construction is proceeding well and all civil works are
near completion. The hotels are scheduled to open in June, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project execution began about one year behind schedule mainly be-
cause of coordination difficulties and inherent delays in reaching agreement
among 12 borrowers. This is the first attempt at countrywide coordination
in the sector. All main contracts have been awarded and construction is
proceeding satisfactorily; however, the cost of the project has increased
84 percent from $225 million to $415 million chiefly due to escalation in
overall costs, including both civil works and equipment. The cost overrun
is expected to be financed from funds from the Federal Republic of Germany
and the borrowers' own resources. Action on appointment of management con-
sultants to help improve planning operation and management of the inter-
connected power system is still pending. Early difficulties with reporting,
changes in the organization of the sector, and determination of the financial
performance of individual borrowers have largely been resolved.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December
31,1978.
Sub-projects accounting for all but Din 7.75 million ($430,500
equivalent) of the amount allocated have been approved by the lending insti-
tution. Private sector demands for sub-loans have by far been in excess of
financing available under the project. Twenty-one sub-projects have been



ANNEX II
Page 5
completed and eighteen are under construction in the social sector. Of the
three studies encompassed by the project the one on irrigation has been
completed while the other two on marketing and private farm production
are in the final draft stage.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
*                     Date:  March 22, 1974; Closing Date:  June 20, 1977.
Bids received on pipes and equipment exceeded appraisal estimates
and civil works costs have increased so that project costs are now about 71
percent above the appraisal estimate. Accordingly the project has been re-
defined. Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II would
provide for a pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be con-
structed under the proposed Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for
which additional Bank financing will be proposed. Naftagas has obtained
additional local currency financing required for Phases I and II. The pro-
posed change will be submitted to the Executive Directors for their con-
sideration.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
Effectiveness was delayed about five months due primarily to the
extra time required for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement by the
Federal Assembly. Project implementation is about four months ahead of
schedule. Total project costs now are about 13 percent (Din. 79.0 million,
about US$4.6 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to large in-
creases in local costs. Financing of this cost overrun has been arranged
with a local bank.
Loan 965 ItIT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Effective Date: June 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions of the project, however, is continuing.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry:  US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: Mlay 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
There presently is a 3 month delay in project implementation but
completion is expected to be on schedule.  Local costs are about 27 percent
(Din. 173 million, about US$10.0 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates
due to design changes and domestic inflation. Financing of this local cost
overrun has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Two out of six road sections are complete and the remainder should
be completed by the end of 1976. Two requests for changes in road align-
ments have been agreed; both changes were requested to accommodate communi-
ties which would be better served by the realignments.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
It is expected that the loan would be fully committed by September
1976 and disbursed by end-1977, ahead of appraisal estimates. The reason.
being: use of Bank funds to finance a greater than anticipated proportion
of the foreign exchange requirements of projects financed by the banks; t>.
suitability of Bank funds for investors' projects and the overall scarcily
of investment resources in Yugoslavia; and the banks' ability to adapt qu>k]-:
to the methodology proposed by IBRD for appraisal of projects submitted
for Bank financing.
Loan 1013 Bosnia Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the railways' invest-
ment plan. After serious delays in 1974, project execution improved sub-
stantially in 1975 but remains somewhat below appraisal forecasts. Delays
have been due principally to financial difficulties. Government and the
Community of Railways are having difficulties in raising tariffs sufficient
to cover inflationary costs and the Bank is currently reviewing this matter
with the Government. There has been good progress on investment planning
and project management.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but settlement of com-
pensation to occupiers of expropriated land and construction of alternative
housing must be accelerated to enable the construction of the railway mar'-
shalling yards serving the new port facilities in due time. The Bank con-
tacted the Government of the Republic of Montenegro which has intervened
in this matter.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Preliminary works are underway, and services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk hotel complex (Loan 782-YU) will be finished in time for the
initial operation of the hotel complex.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effective
Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Two sub-projects from the autonomous Province of Vojvodina have al-
ready been approved and more sub-project applications from the other Republics
are presently being reviewed for approval.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan was declared effective on March 30, 1976.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is June 30, 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:         Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS)
Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS)
Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT)
Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
Fiscal Agent:      Stopanska Banka Skopje
Guarantor:         Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:            US$50 million, equivalent, in various currencies
Beneficiaries:    The loan amount would be divided between the four borrowers
according to the Federal Fund allocation formula as follows:
PBS - US$16.0 million
SBS - US$11.4 million
IBT - US$6.0 million
KBP - US$16.6 million
Terms:             The loan would bear interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum;
a commitment charge of 3/4 of 1 percent would apply on
the principal amount of the loan not withdrawn. Repayment
would be according to a schedule reflecting the composite
amortization schedules of the subloans financed.
Onlending Terms:  Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a period not ex-
ceeding 15 years including grace periods of normally up to
three years and in cases of co-financing of foreign exchange
costs up to six years. The banks would onlend the proceeds
at 11 percent per annum with the sub-borrowers carrying the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      Lending to help finance the foreign exchange cost of im-
ported equipment for investments in medium- and small-
size industrial projects in the Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia and the Autonomous
Province of Kosovo.
Final Date for
Project Sub-
missions:         December 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Free Limit:        US$500,000 for individual projects up to an aggregate of
about 40 percent of each recipient bank's share of the
loan.
Estimated
Disbursements:   Calendar Year          1977   1978   1979   1980
a                                                         US$ million
Annual               11.0   24.0   14.0    1.0
Cumulative           11.0   35.0   49.0   50.0
Appraisal
Report:           Report Number 1058-YU,  dated May 11, 1976.
EMENA Project Department



