RESTRICTED
Report No.   DB-83a
This report is for of ficial use only by thie Bank Group and specifically authorized oganizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited withiout Bank Group authorization. The
Banlc Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
April 18, 1972
Development Finance Companies Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  =   Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$)
US$1               TT$ 1.84
1 Mllion TT$   =   US$ 534,470



APPRAISAL OF
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA ..............................i
SUMMARY      .............................................  ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......      ............................  1
II.  ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT ...........................        1
Recent  Growth   .............................     1
Policies, Performance and Prospects
in Sectors of Interest to TTDFC .........       2
III. FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT ......     ....................  4
Commercial Banking .................              4
Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) ..       5
Insurance Companies .................             5
Capital Market ...................                5
Specialized Institutions ..............           6
Conclusion .....................                  6
IV.  ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION OF TTDFC ........        7
Formation .....................                   7
Objectives and Policies ................           7
Resources .....................                   8
Organization, Management and Staff ........       8
Appraisal Work and Procedures .............       9
Security Required by TTDFC ................       10
Procurement and Disbursement ..............      10
V.   OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITION ....    ..........   10
Operations .........    .......................  10
Earnings, Expenses and Financial Condition        11
VI.  PROSPECTS ........     ..............................  11
Investment Forecasts .....     .................  12
Projected Financial Performance .... .......     12
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....     ............  14
Disbursement of Bank Loan ....     .............  14
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Trinidad and Tobago in
May-June 1971 by Messrs. Daniel B. Boscoe, Andre Nespoulous-Neuville, and
Neal Riden, and a brief visit by Mr. Neal Riden in November 1971. Since
completion of this report, the 1971 audited financial statements have been
received. These do not differ significantly from the results given in this
report, which has not been revised.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1. List of Shareholders
2A. Statement on Investment and Operational Policies
2B. Approved Loan Policy of the Company
3. Board of Directors
4. Income Statement 1970 and Projected Income Statements, 1971-75
5. Balance Sheet 1970 and Projected Balance Sheets, 1971-75
6. Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
7. Resources as of September 30, 1971
8. Projected Sources and Application of Funds, 1971-75
9.  Major Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
BASIC DATA
Year of Organization:    1970
Ownership (9/30/71)
Shares
(Each share has a
par value TT$ 50.00)
Subscribed            Paid-in
No.        TT$
Government of Trinid.ad. and Tobago     80o,oo   4,000,000      2,000,000
Private Sector                           5,430      271,500       135,750
Total                           85,430   4,271,500      2,135,75o
Operations                            (TT$)
Investment Approvals          1970_          1971 (9 months)
Loans                     437,000        335v,00
Equity Investments        200,000        125,000
Total              637,000         460,000
Financial Data (12/31/70)
Total Assets           4,124,000
Long-Term Debts         2,000,000
Total Equity            2,105,000
Long-Term debt/equity        O.95
1/ TTDFC was operational only 6 months in 1970.
DFCD
September 30, 1971



- ii -
APPRAISAL OF
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
SUNMARY
i.        The Trinidad and Tobago Development Finance Company (TTDFC) was
organized May 22, 1970. The company is predominantly Government-owned.
ii.       The economy of Trinidad and Tobago in 1969 and 1970 was sluggish
with real growth amounting to 2-2 1/2% annually, due in large part to a
slackening in the pace of activity in the petroleum industry. The economy
was disrupted by serious social and political disturbances in the Spring
of 1970. However, the Government has apparently dealt with the situation
and is moving in several directions to remove basic causes of the unrest.
The discovery of substantial new natural gas and petroleum reserves in 1970
markedly improved the intermediate and long-term economic prospects. More-
over, against the background of major labor disputes in 1971 the Government
has drafted new labor-management legislation that is expected to provide
sound ground rules for stable industrial relations. The economy is thus ex-
pected to resume a higher growth trend.
iii.      TTDFC can play an important role in financing medium-sized enter-
prises that currently experience difficulty in getting long-term financing
from commercial banks, the maj-or source of term credit for businesses. It
is capable of providing much needed equity financing, and help significantly,
through sound appraisals, in the investment selection process.
iv.       The General Manager of the company is Mr. J.E.C. Scoon, formerly
in the Ministry of Finance for a number of years. He has had little prac-
tical experience in banking, private business management or investment
appraisal. TTDFC's appraisal techniques and procedures are just develop-
ing and need substantial strengthening. TTDFC is just beginning to build
a staff. To help overcome these problems the Government has, with financial
assistance from the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation, secured a
person experienced in development banking and seconded him to TTDFC. The
Bank assisted in the search.
v.        Present estimates show that TTDFC will experience small net gains
in the 1972-74 period, largely dependent on the company getting a TT$ 2 mil-
lion subordinated loan from the Government in early 1972, thereby increasing
its assets and earnings. During loan negotiations the Government agreed to
make such a loan available to TTDFC in early 1972 and the fulfillment of this
commitment will be a condition of effectiveness of a Bank loan. Even so,
profitability over the 1971-75 period will be quite low. Earnings will, how-
ever, be adequate to cover the cost of operations and to build a modest re-
serve. Debt service coverage will be satisfactory.



- iii -
vi.       On the assumption of investment commitments of TT$ 5.6 million
over the two years 1972 and 1973, TTDFC commitments will have an import
component of TT$ 3.7 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$2.0 million
would finance these imports, as well as give the company some flexibility
in the use of its resources. The company, given the assistance to manage-
ment already arranged, should be creditworthy. Considering that TTDFC is a
new institution and has not had time to build up its business to an adequate
level, TTDFC s4ould be given concessional treatment in respect of the commit-
ment charge applicable to the Bank loan. TTDFC's initial free limit would
be US$100,000 equivalent, with an aggregate free limit of US$500,000. Other
conditions of the loan would be those normal for Bank loans to development
finance companies.






APPRAISAL OF
TRINIDAD AND TOB4AGO PEVELQP7NT FINANCE COMPANY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Trinidad and Tobago Developmeent Finance Company, Limited (TTDFC)
was established as a multi-purp9sg Government-controlled institution on May
22, 1970. The establishmen)t Qf TTDFC culminated wore than a year of study
and planning by a Steering Co, mittee that consisted of representatives from
Government and the busine$p se?tor.  Following the findings of a Bank mis-
pion in 1969 that the establishipent of a development finance company would
be useful for the further development of the Trinidad and Tobago economy,
Bank staff worked for several m,onthp with the steering co,mmittee that was
charged with the task of ftn4ilizing a proposal for the establishment of the
company. A possible loan tp the company, not yet established, was in ad-
vanced stages of preparatio,i in early 1970 when, as a consequence of the dis-
turbances in Port-of-Spain, further action h4d to be postponed.  The Bank
then suggested that the Government start the company without a Bank loan and
that the Bank would appraise the new institution and its prospects after it
was in operation.  The Government agreed and established TTDFC in May 1970.
In accordance with the above understanding, a mission consisting of Messrs.
Andre Nespoulous-Neuville, Daniel Boscoe, and Neal Riden visited Trinidad
and Tobago in May-June, 1971 to appraise it. This report is based on their
findings and recommendations, as well as additional information obtained by
Mr. Riden during a short visit to TTDFC in mid-November 1971.
II.  ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Recent Growth
2.01      In both 1969 and 1970 the rate of expansion in real GNP is esti-
mated to have been about 2-2.5%, markedly below the average annual rate of
4.5% for the 1965-68 period.  The weakening in the growth rate was primarily
due to a slackening in the pace of activity in the petroleum industry.
2.02      The year 1970 was marked by two events which will bear importantly
on the future course of economic development of the country, one of these
favorable and the other adverse. During the spring of 1970 the economy was
affected by social and political disturbances. These created a cautiousness
on the part of potential investors outside of the petroleum sector who took
a wait-and-see position as to how the situation would develop. The combined
effect of the depressed state of tourism in a majority of Caribbean countries
and of the political disturbances contributed to a drop of 25% in net for-
eign exchange earnings from tourism in 1970; investment in tourist accommoda-
tions fell markedly. On the other hand, a major new discovery of additional



- 2 -
oil and natural gas reserves, announced in 1970, is expected to lead to sub-
stantial new investment by the petroleum companies in refinery and possibly
liquified natural gas facilities, and to provide additional stimulus to
investment in industry in general.  The Government has developed and is im-
plementing programs designed to deal with the basic problems that led to the
disturbances. 1/ Because of major labor disputes in 1971, the Government
has drafted new labor-management legislation that is directed toward provid-
ing the basis for more stable industrial relations, against a background of
relatively stable prices. These developments taken together have given rise
to renewed private investor interest; and private investment, which was
sluggish in 1970, is expected to resume its growth.
Policies, Performance and Prospects in Sectors of Interest to TTDFC
2.03      Manufacturing.  Government policy with regard to industrial devel-
opment since independence has largely been to promote private sector invest-
ment, limiting the Government's direct role to cases where private investment
has not been forthcoming. More recently, however, this policy has become
more pointedly interpreted by the Government to mean private investment with
at least 25% of local ownership. Private investment in manufacturing has
been based to a large extent on import substitution, although the business
community is not unaware of export opportunities afforded by CARIFTA, the
Caribbean Free Trade Area, from which some businesses have already benefited.
Manufactured exports (excluding sugar) represent about 6% of total output
of the manufacturing industry and about 5% of net exports.
2.04      Specific Government encouragement to industrialization is embodied
in the Aid to Pioneer Industries Ordinance of 1950, administered by the
Trinidad and Tobago Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) for the Ministry
of Industry and Commerce. The fiscal concessions provided under the Ordinance
are: (a) 5-year exemption from custom duty in respect to materials and equip-
ment necessary and used in the construction, alteration and extension of a
pioneer factory; (b) a 5-year income tax holiday with effect from the date
commercial production begins; (c) special depreciation allowances; (d) special
concessions in various extensions and combinations of the above to petro-
chemical industries; and (e) special export credits. In addition the Gov-
ernment through IDC provides factory sites and building shells for certain
industries, and IDC grants direct loans of up to TT$50,000 to firms with
total assets of TT$100,000 or less. Apart from these direct measures, local
industries are protected by import licensing covering over 200 items. While
the Government does give some consideration to external competitiveness in
the granting of fiscal concessions and import restrictions, it was agreed
during negotiations that TTDFC would pay specific attention in its project
appraisal process to the international competitiveness of projects that it
finances. Investment in the manufacturing sector over the last three years
1f   See "Memorandum on Recent Economic Developments and Prospects of
Trinidad and Tobago", CA-10, May 10, 1971.



- 3 -
averaged TT$ 36 million per year. Of this about one-half was made by firms
operating under the incentive law. This combination of incentives has been
moderately effective in promoting industrialization. Over the first 9 years,
1951-1959, of the Pioneer Industries Ordinance, 56 pioneer factories were
established. These factories required total investment of TT$40.2 million
and provided direct employment for 2,700 persons. In the next 11 years,
1960-1970, under IDC promotional efforts, 123 additional pioneer factories
were established accounting for total investment of TT$203.2 million, and
providing direct employment for 7,300 persons. The 288 non-pioneer factories
assisted over the period invested TT$42.1 million and provided direct employ-
ment for 6,100 persons. At the end of 1969, persons employed by pioneer and
non-pioneer assisted establishments accounted for about 30% industrial em-
ployment. 1/
2.05      The prospects for further growth in manufacturing production and
investment are quite good. There is still room for additional investment to
produce products for the domestic market, especially processed and preserved
foodstuffs. Some local businessmen stated that Trinidad and Tobago has a
flexible work force that is efficient and quick to learn new skills. These
features of the work force may give Trinidad and Tobago an edge in competing
in CARIFTA, as well as in other markets. Although manufactured exports rep-
resent only a small proportion of total exports, since 1968 the growth
of such exports has been substantial, with most of the gain accounted for
by exports to CARIFTA. Trinidad and Tobago can further exploit the potential
of this market.
2.06      Tourism. Although the Government enacted tax incentives for hotels
in 1963 and established more than 10 years ago a small Hotel Loan Fund, ad-
ministered until recently by IDC, tourism was not considered as a priority
sector for development until the Third 5-year Plan, 1969-1973. Even now
the Government's attitude toward tourism is very cautious, in part reflect-
ing its fears of undesirable social effects of lavish spending by tourists,
and its recognition of the political necessity to maintain free access for
the population to all beaches without exception. Under the Hotel Develop-
ment Act, complete exemption from income taxation for a period of not more
than 10 years can be granted to a hotel owner or operator of an approved
hotel. The definition of an approved hotel has been largely left to IDC
and its criteria for such determination has usually shifted in accordance
with the Government's attitude from time to time toward the development of
the tourism industry. In addition to income tax exemption, approved hotels
and some hotels that do not win approved status can be granted exemption
from custom duties on building materials and items of hotel equipment that
1/   Firms that enter a given branch of industry when there is a basic
supply/demand imbalance are defined as pioneer establishments and
are eligible for all fiscal concessions. Firms that enter after
basic supply/demand is in general balance may under certain circum-
stances be eligible for fiscal consessions with regard to custom
duties.



- 4 -
are required for the construction and equipment of the hotel. Fiscal incen-
tives appear to have played an important role in bringing about the expan-
sion of hotel facilities that took place between 1965-1971. In that period
782 new rooms were built, of which 513 were in private hotels that had re-
ceived fiscal incentives. Of total investment outlays of TT$27.1 million
over this period, private sector investment accounted for TT$18.4 million,
including TT$2.5 million in loans or equity investment provided by IDC.
2.07      The short-term prospects for tourism and investment in tourist
facilities in the Caribbean Area, and Trinidad and Tobago in particular,
cannot be forecast with reasonable accuracy. The Caribbean is currently
suffering from over-capacity, due mainly to severe competition for tourists
from other areas of the world and slower economic growth in the United
States, its principal market. These factors, coupled with the spring 1970
disturbances, have especially depressed tourism in Trinidad and Tobago, where
tourist-type hotel occupancy has fallen to below 35%, leaving a substantial
part of its 1,520 rooms vacant. The Caribbean, nevertheless, located close
to the heavily populated East Coast of the United States and within reason-
able distance from Canada, has advantages over competing areas. As tourism
in the Caribbean area recovers, Trinidad and Tobago should participate in
the improvement. In addition, for Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela, which
is close by, offers a fruitful area for enlarging its tourist trade. How-
ever, for the short-term new investment in tourist accommodations is likely
to be modest, and limited largely to Tobago.
III. FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
Commercial Banking
3.01      The most important financial institutions in Trinidad and Tobago
in terms of assets are the seven commercial banks with their 78 branch-
banking offices. All seven banks originated as overseas operations of
their British, Canadian, and American banking parents. In 1970, however,
the Government acquired one of the seven in a first step towards localiza-
tion of the banking system. The Government's objective is that over the
next 5 or so years local citizens come to control a majority interest in
the banks. Most existing banks now intend to incorporate in the country
and to comply with the policy objective.
3.02      The commercial banks have been quite competitive for deposits and
have mobilized substantial resources in recent years. Total deposits in the
period from the end of 1966 to the end of 1970 expanded from TT$257.9 million
to TT$448.1 million. Although over the same period loans advanced by 100%
to reach TT$338.3 million, credit at present is not tight (banks are required
to keep reserves of 10%). As a result, commercial banks have leaned more
heavily on investments in Government Treasury Bills and special deposit ac-
counts at the Central Bank to increase their earning assets. Deposits of



- 5 -
at least a month yield 5-1/2%, but longer term deposits earn 6-7%, or even
more.  On the lending side, the prime rate is 8%; an effective rate of
9-1/2 to 10% is more the rule than the exception.
3.03      Commercial banks also make term loans for periods not in excess
of 5 years with a floating interest rate. However, the 5 years is nominal.
Loans of this type are only available to the best customers of the bank,
or those with strong security to pledge, and are repayable on demand.
The most prevalent form of loan is an overdraft line that specifies a
ceiling by amount, within which individual loans are continuously rolled
over. Loans of this type are itsed to finance both fixed assets and working
capital. As a general rule, banks express a strong preference for doing
business with companies in which equity capital is not less than 50% of
total resources. This preference tends to eliminate many small and medium-
sized firms from commercial bank credit facilities.
3.04      There are four trust companies in Trinidad and Tobago.  These trusts
have been established by the commercial banks and largely raise their funds
from term deposits. Their loan operations are in general limited to mortgage
lending for residential and commercial properties.
Industrial Development Corporation (IDC)
3.05      IDC was established by the Government in 1959 to stimulate, facil-
tate and undertake the development of industry in Trinidad and Tobago. Since
its establishment it has largely functioned as a promotional and technical
assistance agency, although it has provided small amounts of financial assist-
ance to some firms. Such financial assistance has usually taken the form of
IDC providing factory buildings and/or plant sites at rentals below going
market rates. IDC has also been used from time-to-time by the Government
to pass on financial assistance to firms that it wanted to aid.  However,
with the start of operations of TTDFC the Government has directed IDC to
limit its financial assistance to small businesses in the form of loans not
to exceed TT$50,000 for any one firm.
Insurance Companies
3.06      The life insurance business in Trinidad and Tobago has experienced
rapid growth over the past several years. Most of the business is written by
branches of foreign companies. All life insurance companies are required by
law to invest 70% of their domestic liabilities in the country. Over the
1965-1969 period investments by life insurance companies in the country rose
by an annual average amount of TT$12 million. These companies largely invest
in residential and commercial mortgages.
Capital Market
3.07      The securities market in Trinidad and Tobago is at a very embryonic
stage of development. Government Bonds and Treasury Bills are mostly held by



banking institutions and insurance companies, and marketability is quite lim-
ited. In recent years the Government has annually sold about TT$18 million
of long-term bonds which yield about 8%.
3.08      The Call Stock Exchange of Trinidad and Tobago is an informal orga-
nization and has no legal basib. The Governor of the Central Bank acts as
chairman of the Exchange and the expenses for the operation of the Call Ex-
change are paid by the Central Bank.  There are no formal rules to regulate
the Exchange; the Central Bank has established some guidelines, but it has
no enforcement authority. The only sanction that the Central Bank can apply
to a member of the Exchange is to remove that dealer's right to make market
in Government securities. The Call Exchange has not as yet proved to be a
significant method of raising large sums of capital. Although 25 stocks are
listed, only 8 are actively traded. Total turnover on the exchange in 1970
was about TT$1.6 million. Trading in shares of private companies is mostly
on a private basis as many companies in Trinidad and Tobago prefer not to
publish their financial results, a requirement for listing shares on the
stock exchange. Price/earnings ratios in June 1971 on listed shares varied
from 9:1 to 19:1.
Specialized Institutions
3.09      Aside from TTDFC, there are several other types of specialized
financial intermediaries in Trinidad and Tobago. There are the 314 credit
unions that raise their resources through the sale of shares and from mem-
bers' deposits. They deal exclusively In consumer loans and have assets of
about TT$18 million. There is a Building Society that has assets of about
TT$10 million, raised from deposits and the sale of shares, and used fully
for home mortgages. There are 370 agricultural co-operative societies.
These societies raise their resources from member deposits and through bor-
rowing from the Agriculture Development Bank, but their total assets are
quite small. There are several finance companies that specialize in in-
stallment lending, both for business machinery and consumer goods, relying
in the main on time deposits and bank loans for their resources.
Conclusion
3.10      Within this financial environment TTDFC competes most directly
with commercial banks for medium-term and long-term loan business. Several
of the commercial banks are shareholders in TTDFC and have indicated a de-
sire to restrict their long-term lending activities to only their large
clients, leaving the medium-size and smaller-size business borrowers large-
ly for TTDFC to serve. TTDFC's business prospects are further enhanced by
Government regulations that, since TTDFC's establishment, limit IDC loans to
individual businesses to TT$50,000 and to firms with total assets of not more
than TT$100,000 (see para 2.04, 3.05). It will also be able to provide equity
capital to businesses, a facility not offered by other existing financial
institutions. In these circumstances, TTDFC should be able to compete suc-
cessfully for sufficient medium-term and long-term loan business to enable
it to become a viable institution in the next few years.



IV. ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION OF TTDFC
Formation
4.01      TTDFC was established and incorporated under the Companies Ordi-
nance May 22, 1970. TTDFC did not become operational, however, until October
1970. The authorized share capital of the company is TT$50 million, of which
TT$4,271,500 has been subscribed (TT$4 million by the Government) and
TT$2,135,750 paid-in (TT$2 million by the Government). 1/ 'The 15 non-government
shareholders (see Annex 1) are all well-established businesses and include 4
of the 7 commercial banks, 2 insurance companies, 2 petroleum companies, and
several other manufacturing and construction firms. Of the 15 private share-
holders and institutions, 6 are branches or affiliates of foreign companies.
Although incorporated as a private company, the Government has stated that
it will hold not less than 51% of the share capital of the company.
Objectives and Policies
4.02      The major objective of TTDFC is to promote economic development by
assisting in establishing and expanding business enterprises. It will do
this by participating in share capital, granting loans, and providing other
forms of financing and technical assistance. TTDFC also has as objectives
the development of the capital market and the enhancement of ownership and
control of enterprises by nationals.
4.03      Under its Articles of Association, TTDFC is authorized to lend to
a wide range of businesses, such as manufacturing, tourism, fishing, for-
estry, processing of agricultural produce and services related thereto. How-
ever, TTDFC plans to limit its fields of activity to the financing of indus-
trial, tourism and commercial agricultural enterprises, and mainly to medium
size enterprises.
4.04      TTDFC has adopted a Statement on Investment and Operational Poli-
cies that sets forth its approach to financing (See Annex 2A). Its gen-
eral investment criteria are (a) technical feasibility, (b) commercial via-
bility, and (c) contribution to the economy. Specific factors taken into
account in applying these criteria are (a) import substitution, (b) use of
local raw materials, (c) employment opportunities, (d) foreign exchange
earnings, and (e) the development of ancillary industries. In addition
to its Statement on Investment and Operational Policies, TTDFC has adopted
a Statement of Loan Policy (Annex 2B) that covers in more detail some of
the same ground covered in its Statement on Investment and Operational
Policies. For example, it spells out specific areas of industry and in
1/   No schedule has been established for the payment of subscribed but un-
paid share capital. According to TTDFC's Articles, subscribed but un-
paid share capital can be called upon two weeks notice.



- 8 -
tourism TTDFC will finance. Much the same is done with regard to loan
purposes and credit criteria.
4.05      According to the Statement on Investment and Operational Policies
participation in the equity of a single enterprise ordinarily will be limited
to 25% of the issued share capital of the enterprise and in no case can it
exceed 10% of TTDFC's net worth. The maximum aggregate equity holdings of
TTDFC will not exceed the total of its paid-in share capital and unimpaired
reserves. TTDFC's maximum participation in any single enterprise (including
guarantees) is not to exceed 15% of the total of TTDFC's paid-in share capital,
unimpaired reserves, and the outstanding amount of the subordinated Govern-
ment loan. TTDFC will not ordinarily finance, with all forms of assistance,
more than 50% of the total assets of an enterprise, but may exceed this limit
if there is special justification. The Statement on Investment and Operation-
al Policies limits TTDFC's debt-equity ratio to 3:1. This Policy Statement
is in general satisfactory and conforms to the broad outline of similar State-
ments by other development finance companies that borrow from the World Bank.
During negotiations it was agreed that, for the purposes of the proposed Bank
loan, the section of the Statement on Investment and Operational Policies
that sets the maximum financial exposure of TTDFC in a single enterprise
would be computed from a base composed of paid-in share capital, unimpaired
reserves, and the amount of the subordinated Government loans as shall be
repayable after the latest of the dates of all outstanding maturities of the
sub-loans to be made from the proposed Bank loan and the schedules of repay-
ment to the Bank in respect to equity investments. During negotiations the
Bank obtained agreement that TTDFC will make no changes in its Statement on
Investment and Operational Policies and its Articles which in the judgement
of the Bank materially and adversely affect the objectives, the financial
condition or operations of the company.
Resources
4.06      TTDFC is authorized to raise resources by borrowing from Government,
banks, and other financial institutions. The company may also issue deben-
tures or bonds. It cannot, however, accept deposits. As of the end of May
1971, TTDFC had secured one loan in the amount of TT$2 million. This was a
loan from the Government for 40 years, including 10 years grace, at 4% annual
interest, with interest payments waived for the first 5 years of the loan.
The loan is subordinate to all other debts; it ranks ahead of share capital
in the event of liquidation of TTDFC.
Organization, Management and Staff
4.07      The Articles provide that TTDFC's Board of Directors shall consist
of 8 members including the chairman. Government appoints 4 directors, the
Central Bank 1 and provision is made for 3 directors to be elected from the
private sector when the private sector holding reaches 45% or more of the
share capital, one director for each 15% held. However, the present Board
is composed of 1 director appointed by the Central Bank and 7 directors,



including 4 representatives of the private sector, appointed by Government,
all for 1-year terms. (See Amnex 3.)
4.08      The Chairman, Mr. M. J. de Souza, is a capable and energetic
Trinidadian insurance executive, who takes an active interest in TTDFC's
affairs. He is highly regarded by the business community and has been an
important factor in the business community's general acceptance of TTDFC
as an autonomous company, despite the Government's control. Two of the
other directors from the private sector are experienced executives from
manufacturing firms; the fourth is the head of a leading legal firm. The
Government representatives are the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Plan-
ning and Development; the Senior Economist, Ministry of Agriculture; the
Manager, Bank Operations, Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago; and the Pres-
ident, National Union of Government Workers.
4.09      TTDFC's General Manager, Mr. J. E. N. Scoon, was previously deputy
Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and has spent his entire career
in Government. Although he has served on the Boards of several private enter-
prises, he has had no experience of managing either a business enterprise or
a financial institution. Given the opportunity to obtain investment experience,
he should soon develop into a sound manager. In the interim period he needs to
be supported by an advisor whose major strength is in project appraisal and who
is experienced in all aspects of the operation of a development finance company.
To this end the Government has entered into a two-year contract with a person,
acceptable to the Bank, who has extensive experience in development banking,
and has made this person available to TTDFC to work as an advisor. This ad-
visor will be paid by the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Assistance.
4.10      TTDFC has a very small professional staff.  Soon after establishment
it employed a company secretary who also acts as solicitor, an accountant,
and a project analyst. All three are academically qualified and the company
secretary and the accountant have sufficient experience to do their jobs sat-
isfactorily. The project analyst, who has completed the Bank's EDI course,
lacks experience, and he will be unable without experienced guidance to do a
satisfactory job. In the past few months, TTDFC has employed three junior
professionals. All are graduates of the University of the West Indies, but
without experience relevant to their present positions. One of the functions
of the advisor will be to train these persons. In addition, the Government
is currently negotiating a contract with the Arthur D. Little and Company for
consulting services to TTDFC in the case of large and complex projects.
Appraisal Work and Procedures
4.11      Given the newness and the inexperience of its staff, it is not
surprising that TTDFC is just beginning to develop the techniques of project
appraisal. In particular, appraisals done so far contain the basic data
required to do a satisfactory job, but lack adequate analysis and applied



- 10 -
experience. Bank staff while in Trinidad and during negotiations in Washington
discussed this matter in detail. The situation should improve, once the ad-
visor is on the job.
4.12      There is presently a substantial delay between loan negotiation
and signing of loan contracts. This delay is in part due to the fact that
all legal documents are drawn by outside solicitors at the borrower's ex-
pense. Because TTDPC's solicitor is brought into the process at a late stage
in the negotiations, legal problems are often not spotted until very late.
TTDFC is now working on a standard mortgage debenture so that it can handle,
for a fee, more of the legal work and plans to bring its own legal officer
into lending operations at an earlier stage.
Security Required by TTDFC
4.13      TTDFC normally requires first mortgages on all plant and equipment,
and in some cases in addition a floating charge on all other assets. TTDFC's
security requirements appear adequate and not excessive.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.14      TTDFC's procurement procedures are not satisfactory, but following
discussions in Trinidad and again during negotiations in Washington it is
expected that there will be satisfactory improvement. This improvement will
be further enhanced when the advisor is in place. TTDFC's written procedures
for disbursements appear reasonable.
V. OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITION
Operations
5.01      TTDFC was in operation for only 6 months in 1970.  In 1970, invest-
ment approvals by the Board amounted to TT$637,000, all to the industrial
sector. These approvals consisted of three loans that totalled TT$437,000
and one equity investment for TT$200,000. One loan for TT$300,000 and the
equity approval were for the same company, the National Brewing Company, a
new firm. The other two loan approvals were for extensions. All three loan
approvals were for a term of 10 years, including in two cases a 2-year grace
period, at interest rates of 9-1/2 or 10%. A commitment fee of 1/2% was also
assessed.
5.02      In the first 9 months of 1971 TTDFC's approvals amounted to TT$460,000.
They consisted of 4 loans and 3 equity investments that respectively totalled
TT$335,000 and TT$125,000. The loans and equity were roughly split evenly
between new firms and extensions for existing firms. Loan approvals provided
a term of 7-8 years, including 1-2 year grace periods, with a commitment fee
of 1/2% and interest at 9-1/2%.



- 11 -
5.03      In summary, since TTDFC started operations in October 1970 and
through the end of September 1971, it had approved seven loans that totalled
TT$772,000 and four equity investments that totalled TT$325,000. All of
its loan approvals were for business referred to it by IDC, the source of
its initial pipeline of projects, and conform in full, as did its equity in-
vestments, with its Articles and Statement on Policies. Its largest loan
and its largest equity investment were mmade for the same firm. Its other
six investments were distributed between firms producing or repairing fur-
niture (3 investments), and firms producing electrical equipment or compo-
nents (3 investments).
Earnin&s, Expenses and Financial Condition
5.04      The audited financial statements for 1970 1/ (Annex 4 and Annex 5)
cover financial operations for the 6 months ended December 31, 1970.  The
statements, as would be expected, reflect the operations of a financial or-
ganization just getting under way and are not helpful in assessing of the
financial viability of the company. For the 7 months of 1970, the company
had gross income of TT$86,377, all from interest earned from fixed deposits
of three-month terms in commercial banks (TT$1,950,000) and from Government
bonds (TT$2,000,000). The yield on fixed deposits amounted to 5-1/2% and
could be improved. On the other hand, TTDFC's investment in Government bonds
that yield 7-1/2%, was quite prudent, given the alternative investments avail-
able, its longer term liquidity requirements, and its agreement with the Cen-
tral Bank that calls for the latter to repurchase the bonds anytime after one
year on 30 days notice. Total expenses in 1970 amounted to TT$81,699 and thus
net income was TT$4,678. 2/ The Company closed the year with total assets
of TT$4,124,002.
VI. PROSPECTS
6.01      Investment in industry aside from the petroleum sector should grow
steadily over the next five years (see Para 2.05) and should reach a level
of TT$45-47 million by the end of 1975, compared with an estimated level of
TT39-40 million for 1970. This represents a very modest rate of growth, only
a little more on average than 3% per year. Nevertheless, TTDFC should be
able to build a sound investment portfolio. The outlook for investment in
tourist facilities over the 1971-1975 period is uncertain (see Para 2.07),
but there should, nevertheless, be a few projects that will offer attractive
1/   The audit, which is of acceptable standard, was conducted by John Hunt
and Company, Chartered Accountants, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. The Bank
has reviewed the qualifications of this firm to conduct regular audits
of TTDFC and found them adequate.
2/   No provision was made for the corporate tax; the Minister of Finance has
stated that the Government intends to enact legislation that will exempt
TTDFC from the tax for 10 years. The corporate tax rate is 45% of net
income.



- 12 -
investment opportunities for TTDFC. However, given the very modest growth
envisioned in investment in tourism and manufacturing in the medium term TTDFC
is likely to remain, at least over the next 5 years, a small institution with
low profitability.
Investment Forecasts
6.02      On the basis of past trends of investment in manufacturing and
tourism, the outlook for investment in manufacturing (excluding the petro-
leum sector) and tourism, and TTDFC's pipeline of projects, TTDFC's loan
approvals for the 1971-1975 period are estimated at TT$14.1 million. TTDFC's
total investment program (loans plus equity investments) for the period is
projected to be TT$17.2 million. Estimated disbursements by TTDFC would
amount to 7% of estimated gross manufacturing and tourism investment.
6.03      For the years 1972 and 1973 forecast loan approvals total TT$5.6
million, with about 85% of this' amount reflecting import requirements.
This high import component reflects the fact that TTDFC limits its
exposure to a firm to 50% of the enterprise's total assets and the fact
that off-shore procurement accounts for 60% of manufacturing investment in
Trinidad and Tobago. Equity investments for the two-year period are fore-
cast at TT$1.2 million to brithg the total 1972-1973 investment program to
TT$6.8 million. The breakdown of these projections by year, and by use for
local and foreign procurement is given in Annex 6. In summary, TTDFC needs
TT$2.1 million in local currency and TT$4.7 million for imports to cover
investment approvals projected for 1972 and 1973.  On a commitment basis,
however, covering the period March 1972-March 1974, TTDFC will require TT$1.9
million in local currency and TT$3.7 million in foreign exchange, a total of
TT$5.6 million.
6.04      To cover commitments of TT$5.6 million, TTDFC at the end of Septem-
ber 1971 had uncommitted local funds of TT$3.1 million none of which was
foreign exchange (see Annex 7). Thus, to cover March 1972-March 1974 commit-
ments TTDFC will need additional resources of TT$2.5 million. During negotia-
tions the Government agreed to make an additional subordinated loan of TT$2
million available to TTDFC in early 1972 and to provide additional financial
resources in the form of share capital or another loan in the latter part of
1972. TTDFC will then have enough local currency resources to cover domestic
procurement, not only for March 1972-March 1974, but for around 2 years there-
after. However, TTDFC will need TT$3.7 million in foreign exchange to cover
off-shore procurement under commitments made in March 1972-March 1974. A Bank
loan of US$2 million would be within TTDFC's import financing requirements.
The Government during negotiations agreed to assume the foreign exchange risk
of the proposed loan.
Projected Financial Performance
6.05      Projected income, balance sheet and cash flow statements are given
in Annexes 4, 5 and 8. The assumptions on which they are based are listed
in Annex 9. Over the 1971-1973 period TTDFC's assets would more than double,



- 13 -
moving from TT$4.1 million in 1970 to TT$9.5 million at the end of 1973.
The company's debt/equity ratio would increase from 0.9:1 in 1971 to 2.8:1
in 1975 forecast period. The cumulative build-up of provisions calculated at
the rate of 2% of annual disbursements, to be charged against income, would
be 2.0% of portfolio at the end of 1973 and 2.1% at the end of 1975. How-
ever, accumulated provisions plus reserves at the end of 1975 would amount
to 7.1% of portfolio. Gross income as a percent of average total assets
would rise markedly in 1971 and in 1972. This is explained by a shift of
some of the company's investments in time deposits into loans with substan-
tially higher rates than those paid on time deposits. In 1973 gross income
as a percent of average total assets is projected to decline modestly, re-
flecting the higher level of equity investments that TTDFC would make in 1972
but on which it would earn no income. Beyond 1973 gross income as a percent
of average total assets would steadily increase through 1975, reflecting in-
creasing income from equity in'0estments. Net income as a percent of average
total assets, quite small in 1971, would remain very modest over the re-
mainder of the 5 year period. Net income as a percent of year-end share
capital and average net worth in 1971 would amount to 2.2% and 2.1% respec-
tively. In 1975 the respective figures are projected at 6.2% and 6.1%. Net
income would, however, be negative in 1972 and 1973 if account had not been
taken in the projections of a second subordinated loan from the Government
in early 1972 to which the Government agreed to during loan negotiations.
This loan, a condition of effectiveness of the Proposed Bank loan, would en-
able TTDFC to increase its earning assets and income. The following table
expresses various income/cost elements as a percentage of average total assets
and gives some insight to the earnings situation.
Items as % of Average Total Assets
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
(Actual)
Gross income                       4.1    6.4    7.6    7.1    7.5    7.8
Financial expenses                 0.0    0.0    0.3    1.3    2.7    3.3
Administrative expenses            3.9    5.0    4.9    3.6    2.9    2.3
Provisions for possible losses   0.0    0.3    0.6    0.7    0.9    0.6
Net Income                         0.2    1.1    1.8    1.5    1.2    1.6
6.06      There is a marked increase in administrative expenses in 1971 and
in 1972 this proportion remains virtually unchanged despite substantial
growth in average total assets. The 1971 increase is a reflection of a full
years' operation, as compared to 6 months in 1970, and the employment of
three additional professional staff members in the latter months of the year.
The 1972 rise in these costs largely represent a 30% increase in staff sala-
ries and a 100% rise in office rent, resulting from the need for additional
space to accommodate the recently increased staff. After 1972 administrative



- 14 -
expenses as a percent of average total assets would decline sharply, but at
2.3% at the end of 1975 would still be high. The company does not experience
any financial costs in 1970 and 1971. This is because the borrowed funds
used over this period are from a Government loan for 40 years, including a
10-year grace period and a five year waiver of interest. At the end of 1975
financial costs stand at 3.3% of average total assets, reflecting the end of
the waiver of interest on the Government loan and financial costs of other
borrowed funds. On the basis of its projected profitability TTDFC would
have sufficient earnings over the period as a whole to develop its organiza-
tion and give its creditors reasonable coverage. In each year over the five-
year period, earnings after administrative expenses would cover interest pay-
ments a minimum of 1.7 times, and principal repayments to creditors would be
covered by collections from borrowers a minimum of 1.7 times in each year of
the forecast in which payments are due. It is not expected that any dividends
will be paid; TTDFC will be unable to pay any substantial dividend in any case.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      TTDFC is a new institution operating in an economic environment
that should generate adequate investment opportunity to permit it to use
its resources to good advantage. The company, as the only long-term lend-
ing institution in the country and with its flexibility as between medium-
term and long-term lending, should be able to compete effectively for an
adequate amount of this business and at Lhe same time contribute to the
economic development of the country, esrpecially in the manufacturing and
tourism sectors. It could complement the scarce equity resources of sponsors
to build soundly capitalized companies. Over the next few years TTDFC's
disbursements could come to amount to 7% of gross fixed investment in manu-
facturing and tourism.
7.02      Over the March 1972-March 1974 two-year period, TTDFC's commitments
should be on the order of TT$5.6 million. Of this amount, TT$1.2 million
will be in equity investments and TT$4.4 million in loans that would have a
foreign exchange component of TT$3.7 million. Since TTDFC has no foreign
currency resources it needs to borrow TT$3.7 million to cover the March
1972-March 1974-foreign exchange requirements. Given the expected assis-
tance to management and the additional financial resources to be made avail-
able by the Government, the company should be creditworthy. On this basis
and taking into account the company's need for some flexibility in the util-
ization of its local currency resources, a Bank loan of US$2.0 million is re-
commended.
7.03      In estimating the foreign exchange content of individual projects
the Bank has agreed to finance (i) direct imports, (ii) the CIF Trinidad and
Tobago port of entry value of such goods produced outside of Trinidad and
Tobago as shall be purchased from suppliers in Trinidad and invoiced and
paid for in the currency of the Guarantor, and/or (iii) the equivalent of
35%, or such other percentage as the Bank and the Borrower may establish,



- 15 -
of said expenditures representing the estimated foreign exchange component
of such amounts as shall have been paid in respect of construction works.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 10.
7.04      The terms of the loan would be those normally applied to lending
to development finance companies. However, since TTDFC is a new company
and has not had time to build up its business to an adequate level, it is
recommended that TTDFC be given concessional treatment in respect of the
commitment charge applicable to the Bank loan. TTDFC's free limit would
be USS100,000 equivalent, with an aggregate free limit of US$500,000.
7.05      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i) that the Government will have provided a subordinated loan
to TTDFC in the amount of TT$2,000,000 (see para 6.04);
(ii) that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will have been
made which protect TTDFC against the foreign exchange risk
on the proposed Bank loan (see para 6.04).






ANNEX 1
TAINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CCMPANY
List of Shareholders
(As at 9/3Q/71)
No. of Shares   Value of Shares
Subscribed       Subscribed       Amount Paid
- T$X            T
1. Government of Trinidad
and Tobago                          80,000           4,00o,00        2,000,000
2.  Canning and Company, Ltd.                100               5,000            2,500
3.  Texaco Trinidad, Ltd.                    500              25,000           12,500
4.  Catelli-Primo, Ltd.                       30               1,500              750
5.  Royal Bank of Canada                     200              10,000            5,000
6. Alstons, std.                             400              20,000           10,000
7.  N.E.M. (W.I) Insurance, Ltd.             100               5,000            2,500
8.  Angostura Bitters, Ltd.                  100               5,000            2,500
9. Horsford and Mitchell Con-
struction                              100               5,000            2,500
10.  Bank of Nova Scotia                      500              25,000           12,500
11.  Barclays Bank D.C.O.                    2,000            100,000           50,000
12.  Esso Standard Oil S.A., Ltd.              200             10,000            5,000
13.  Guyana and Trinidad Mutual
Fire Insurance Co., Ltd.               100               5,000            2,500
U14. Trinidad and Tobago Insurance,
Ltd.                                   100               5,000            2,500
15.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce        500             25,000           12,500
16.  Neal and Massy Holding, Ltd.              500             25,000           12,500
4,271,500       2,135,750
DFCD
September 30, 1971






ANNEX 2A
Pa-ge 1F
TiJNIDAD & TOBAGO DEVE-JOPMENT FINANCE CO., LTD.
Statement on Investment and Operational Policies
(approved by Board of Directors September 15, 170)
The ourpose of this statement is to outline the policies that shall apply
to the activities of the Development Finance Company of Trinidad and Tobago,
hereinafter referred to as the Company.
1 - OBJECTIVES AND OPERATIONAL CI(TTE.TIA
1.     The Company shall assist in the economic development of Trinidad and
Tobago by helping to finance and develop soundly-managed, expansion-
minded and profited-oriented enterprises which will make direct
contribution to national economic growth of the country. The Development
Finance Company shall give due regard in its activities to the general
economic plans and priorities of the Government in promoting the economic
growth of the country. While its primary field of activity will be in
financing manufacturing and Drocessing industries and projects to
expand tourism, it shall also be allowed to make commitments to
fishing, large scale commercially oriented agriculture or forestry
and trade (including export credits) and service enternrises e.g.
transport. However, general trade and consumer financing, house
mortgages and providing finance for the buying and selling of lands
will be excluded.
2.     The Company will assist in establishing and developing non-foreign
controlled private enterprises. This does not preclude making loans
to foreign controlled firms. The Company will not provide financial
assistance to enterprises which are Government owned and operated, but
a Government holding of not more than 25% of the voting stock of a
private enterprise shall not make such enterprise ineligible for
financial assistance from the Company. The Company will finance new
enterprises and the improvement or expansion of existing ones.
3.     The Company will operate mainly in the following ways:-
(a) by making short, medium and long-term loans to finance and
refinance capital goods and provide working capital the
latter only in special circumstances;
(b) by participating in share or loan capital and convertible
loan stock, as well as debenture loan;
(c)  by guaranteeing and underwriting corporate securities,
(d) by providing technical and managerial corporate services to
the clients and to projects under consideration;
(e) by guaranteeing payment for machinery and equipment;
(f) by providing export credits.



ANNEX 2A
Page 2
4.    The Company's financial assistance will be essentially for expenditures
for fixed assets. The Company will, however, consider requests for
providing working capital requirements in conjunction with its financial
assistance for such capital expenditures.
5.     The Company will pay particular attention to the trend of overall
industrial development and investment opportunities in the private
sector and to this end will liaise with specialized organizations such
as Industrial Development Corporation and industrial research institutes
as well as other financial institutions for the promotion of new
enterprises or expansion of the existing ones.
11 - BASIS FOR INVESTMENT DECISIONS
6.     The Company will make investment decisions only on the basis of sound
investment criteria and standards, and will provide financial assistance
only to those projects which are financially and economically sound and
technically feasible.
111 - DIVERSIFICATION OF PORTFOLIO
7.     The Company will diversify its investment portfolio in order to
maintain a reasonable spread of risk.
8.     The Company will not encourage applications for small loans because
of the administrative costs involved. However, each application will
be considered on its merit. The financial commitment in whatever
form, including loans, share capital, guarantee, or any combination
thereof, that the Company may make to any single enterprise will not
normally exceed 15% of its paid-up share capital, the unimDaired
reserves and the outstanding amount of the subordinated Govrernment
loan. (The subordinated Government loan will rank pari passu with
share canital in liquidation).
9.     The Company shall join with and encourage other financing
institutions, whether local, foreign or international, in financing
large size projects whose financial requirements exceed its capacity.
10.    The Company will not commit to any single enterprise in the form of
share capital more than 10% of the Company's paid-in capital and
unimpaired reserves.
11.    The Company's total investments in the form of equity participations
at any time will not exceed the total of its paid-in share capital
and the unimpaired reserves.
IV  -  TU1N-OVER OF PORTFOLIO
12.    In order to recover its resources for new commitments and to encourage
widespread ownership of shares the Company will revolve its portfolio
whenever it can do so on satisfactory terms. In selling an
investment it will pay due regard not only to its own interests but
also to the interest of other participants in such investment, and
the interest of the concern whose shares are involved.



ANNEX 2A
Page 3
V  -   ELATIONSHIP WITH ENTERPRISES FINANCED
13.    Generally, the Company shall not assume managerial responsibilities in
the enterprises it assists and shall limit its share participations to
25% of the share capital of any given enterprise. It may, however,
by decision of the Board, exceed this percentage and/or assume managerial
responsibility for an initial period to enterprises promoted by it, or if
this is justified to protect its investments.
1h.    When deciding upon the amount and form of financial assistance it
shall provide, the Company shall take into account all the financial
requirements of the project and the financial situation of the
enterprise in question. In principle, the financial assistance the
Company grants shall not exceed 50% of the total cost of the
project subject to the principle laid down in para. 9. It may,
however, exceed this limit if there is special justification.
15.    In accordance with accepted practice, the Company will require its
borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate security, to keep
records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices,
and to furnish whatever information on their operations and accounts
the Company deems desirable. The Company will have the right to
inspect the enterprises it finances as well as their operations
and accounts.
16.    Business information furnished by applicants or clirants will be
treated on a confidential basis.
VI  - FINANCIAL GUIDE-LINES
17.    The Company will lend and invest its resources in such a way as to
maintain the value of its own capital. The Company will pass to its
client any foreign exchange risk it assumes or will find other
suitable means to cover it.
18.     As a general rule, the Company will not borrow funds (other than the
subordinated Loan referred to hereafter) with an original maturity
exceeding one (1) year, that exceeds three times its paid-in share
capital, unimpaired reserves and the balance of the Government
Subordinated Loan provided to the Company. Debt shall be considered
to include guarantee and borrowed funds to the extent they are
drawn-down and outstanding .
19.    The Company will maintain accounting records adequate to reflect its
business operations in accordance with sound and generally accepted
accounting practices and standards. The Company will employ qualified
and independent public accountants to audit its books and certify
the accounts annually.



ANNEX 2A
Page h
20.    The Company may undertake the management of special funds only on
condition that such management does not, in the view of the Board of
Directors, interfere with the Company's capacity to fulfill its main
objective of promoting and financing productive investments. Such funds
shall only be managed by the Company on condition that it receives
adequate 2'emuneration.
VII  -  PROFITS AND THEIR DISTdIBUTION
21.    The Company will aim to earn sufficient to cover its expenses, provide
reserves adequate to the size and risks of its portfolio, protect its
equity against erosion, and pay a satisfactory dividend; it will seek
dividends on its equity investments and will fix interest rates, fees
and other charges for its loans and services which will permit it to
achieve that level of profitability. It will build and maintain
reserves consistent with sound financial management.
VIII  -  STAFF
22.    The Company shall strive to develop and maintain a solid well-
balanced organization and a management team capable of appraising the
financing proposals put before it; assisting enterprises in the
formulation of their orojects and supervising their execution. Special
and continuing efforts will be made to train national personnel at all
levels required by the Company.
IX  -  REVISION OF POLICIES
23.    Any proposal to revise this Statement on Investment and Operational
Policies shall be considered by the Board of Directors only after each
member has been given an adequate opportunity to study and comment
on the proposal. It shall be approved by at least five (5) Directors
at a meeting of the Board of Directors.
X - ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
2h.    The Board of Directors will consist of eight (8) persons.  Government
will appoint four (4) Directors and the Central Bank one (1). The otber
three (3) Directors will be drawn from the private sector and will be
appointed for one (1) year in the first instance. Thereafter, when
the orivate sector holds up to 15% of the share capital, they will
elect one (1) Director. Every other 15% of shareholding will qualify
the private sector to elect another Director up to three (3).
DFCD
September30, 1971



ANNEX 2 B
Page 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Approved Loan Policy of the Company
(approved by Board of Directors December 17, 1970)
1.     GENERAL POLICY
In the Statement on Investment and Operational Policies,
it is stated that the primary objective of the Davelopment
Finance Company (DFC) would be to help to finance and
develop soundly-managed expansion-minded and profit-oriented
enterprises which would in turn make some direct contribution
to the national economic growth of Trinidad and Tobago.
The D.F.C. intends to make its services known and available
to the private sector and consequently encourage proposals
to be made to the Company where it can appropriately provide
the necessary financing. The Company's policy would be to
make its services available to businesses anywhere in
Trinidad and Tobago.
The D.F.C.'s financing activities would involve:-
(i)   making short, medium and long-term loans to
finance and refinance capital goods and provide
working capital the latter only in special
circumstances;
(ii)  participating in share or loan capital and
convertible loan stock, as well as debenture
loan;
(iii) guaranteeing payment for machinery and equipment;
(iv) guaranteeing and underwriting corporate
securities;
(v)   providing export credits.
2.     TYPES OF BUSINESS
Projects to be Financed
While the Memorandum of Association permits the D.F.C. a
fairly wide area of operation insofar as the object for
which it was established, it is proposed to concentrate
on certain projects which would be eligible for loans and
guarantees. These are as follows:-



ANNEX 2B
Page 2
la. Industrial
(i)   Manufacturing
(ii)  Processing
(iii) Assembling
(iv)  Quarrying
(v)   Construction and Engineering
(vi)  Commercial Transportation
lb.Tourism
(i)   Construction of Hotel and Guest Houses
(ii) Service Facilities
LOAN PURPOSES
The purposes for which the Company will provide financing
can be classified as follows:-
(i)   Fixed Assets
(ii) Working Capital
(iii) Refinancing
Fixed Assets
The Company will provide medium or long-term financing
to help finance the acquisition of fixed assets including
the purchase of land and buildings, construction and
alteration of buildings and purchase of machinery and
equipment.
Working Capital
The D.F.C. may consider the provision of a loan to be
used either in whole or part for Working Capital where:-
(i)   after evaluation of the proposal it is
determined that an increase in Working
Capital is necessary to permit expansion
of the business;



ANNEX 2B
Page 3
(ii)  it is necessary to correct a weakness in
the financial position of a business;
(iii) the business has a loan from the D.F.C.
and has as large an operating credit as
its Commercial Bank is willing to permit;
(iv)  there is a need for the acquisition of
managerial and/or financial skill.
definancing
One of the main reasons for the establishment of a D.F.C.
is that by granting medium and long-term loans to companies,
it would result in increasing the productive capacity of
the economy.
Refinancing cannot be considered in this context as it runs
contrary to the true lending function of a D.F.C. However,
there are times when the D.F.C. will be faced with loan
proposals that require refinancing.
The D.F.C. would provide financing to be used wholly or in
part to refinance existing obligations not merely to increase
the profitability to the owners of the business but to take
account of the following circumstances:-
(i)   where the rafinancing would result in the
expansion of the existing business;
(ii)  where the remaining balance of an existing
mortgage debt has to be removed to provide
the D.F.C. with satisfactory security for
a new loan;
(iii) where the project is of special importance
to the economy and is viable.
CREDIT CRITERIA
If any application conforms to the requirements set out
before, i.e. if the company is engaged in a business of
a type to which the D.F.C. may lend and if the funds are
required for an appropriate purpose, then it becomes a
matter of credit judgment to decide what amount, if any,
the D.F.C. should lend. The major criteria in determining
these are:-
(i)   Management
(ii) Earning Prospects
(iii) Security



ANNEX 2i
Page 4
Further, it is implicit in the Statement on Investment
and Operational Policies that the D.F.C. has to consider
financing in a wide variety of situations which involve
higher degrees of risk which other lenders may not be
willing to take. This would require the exercise of
seasoned well-balanced judgement based upon full and
accurate information and a careful weighing of relevant
factors.
LOAN TERKS AND CONDITIONS
The terms and conditions of loans would depend on whether
it is a new project to be financed, an existing project
which has to be exDanded or any existing viable project.
The relevant variables to be considered are as follows:-
(i)   Percentage of project to be financed
(ii) The Rate of Interest
(iii) The repayment period
(iv) Commitment Fee
Percentage of the Project to be Financed
Where the application is in connection with an existing
viable project or a new one, the D.F.C. should finance up
to 60% of the total cost of the project. Assuming that
30% of the total cost is represented by equity and 10%
for short-term financing, this would give a debt equity
ratio of roughly 2 to 1. Consequently, it is recommended
that the operating ratio of 2 to 1 for projects which
are considered viable should be the general rule.
Given certain conditions, allowances should be made for
providing loan finance of up to 70% of the project
provided that:-
(i)   the company is owned by nationals;
(ii) proper security is given to cover the loan;
(iii) it creates new employment opportunities;
(iv) maximum use of local materials is made.



ANNEX 2B
Page 5
Where it is proposed to finance the expansion of an existing
business, the Company should finance up to 100% of the total
cost involved on condition that this amount does not exceed
60% of the total cost of the entire project and the debt
equity ratio does not exceed 2 to 1.
The size of the loan will be subject to the limits stated
in nara. 8 of the Statement on Investment and Operational
Policies.
Interest
Interest rates will be fixed from time to time at levels
which will vary with the cost of money to the Company
from its sources. The current rate will vary between
8% - 11%.
Repayment Period
As a result of the variety of circumstances, it is extremely
difficult to recommend any fixed formula on which the
length of loan repayment periods should be based. However,
it should be clearly understood that companies require
ample time for repayment of a lcan and the period would
be based on prospective earnings, depreciation of assets
and security of the D.F.C.'s loans.
Commitment Fee
The D.F.C. may charge a commitment fee, not exceeding 1%
for all loans. This type of fee is more or less standard
with all lending financial institutions which have to
oarmark funds for borrowers.
The commitnent should become effective thirty (30) days
after the signing of the Letter of Commitment by the
borrowing nompany, which should be done before sixty (60)
days.
Project Evaluation
When consideration is being given to an application which
contains cost estimates, it is sometimes necessary to have
these estimates checked by qualified personnel. The D.F.C.
should reserve the right to appoint at clients expense,
qualified personnel to evaluate projects where thought
necessary.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
6.     SECURITY FOR LOAN
The more satisfactory situation from a security point of
view would be whether the debt is adequately covered by
assets that can be realized to cover the loan. However,
this is not always the case as there should be some
distinction between the value of equipment for the purpose
of the loan, and the value for the purpose of security.
In the case of equipment value for the purpose of the loan,
this raises no problem but when it is proposed to use the
value of equipment for the purpose of security, no more than
60% should be used in normal circumstances, bearing in mind,
the expected life of the equipment and its marketable
resale value. In any event where there is no doubt as to
the borrowing company being in a position to provide
adequate security from either a traditional view point
or from a more liberal interpretation, it is recommended
that the credit standing of all companies should be
investigated. Where personal guarantees are involved, it
should be the general policy that guarantors complete
a standard form showing their net worth.
7.     EQUITY PARTICIPATION
As a Development Financial Institution, the D.F.C. should
seek to encourage venture capital in the non-traditional
areas.  It could demonstrate confidence to potential
investors by participating in the equity of existing or
new companies. W4here necessary, the D.F.C. should use
the technique of convertible loan stock. These investments
would have to conform with the criteria set out in the
Statement on Investment and Operational Policies.
8.     EXPORT CREDITS
According to the Statement on Investment and Operational
Policies, the Company will engage in the provision of
export credits. Before a meaningful policy is formulated
in this regard, it is proposed to carefully examine the
mechanics of this type of operation in collaboration
with enterorises both in the private sector and in the
Export Promotion Division of the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce. When this task is completed a supplementary
note on this aspect will be submitted for the anproval
of the Board.
DFCD
September 30, 1971



ANNEX3
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
Board of Directors
(as of September 30, 1971)
M. J. de Souza, Chairman            Private Businessman (Insurance)
F. Bissessar                        Senior Economist,
Ministry of Agriculture
L. Blache-Fraser                    Private Businessman (Manufacturing)
G. E. Godrington                    Manager, Bank Operations, Central
Bank of Trinidad and Tobago
N. E. Crichlow                      President, National Union of
Government Workers
E. L. Moore                         Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Planning and Development
K. Narinesingh                      Private Businessman (Law)
M. F. Prevatt                       Private Businessman (Manufacturing)
DFCD
September 30, 1971



TINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMET FINANCE COMPANY
Income Statement 1970 and Projected Income Statements,1971-75
(in TT$ thousand)
1970         1971         1972         1973         1974         1975
(Audited)       ---------------------Projected----------------------
INCOME
Interest and Commitment Charges on Loans           -            31          115          279          525           814
Other Income                                       86          237          310          307           295          299
TOTAL INCOME                         -7           75           42            w             20         1113
EXPENSES
Interest and Commitment Fees                       -                         14         106           291           4682/
Salary and Other Personal Expenses                 32          112/         14T4       159&v         1714          1929/
Other Administrative Expenses                      47           89          122         129           129           129
Provisions for doubtful loans                                   14           33          59             78           90
Depreciation                                        3            7            8           8              8            8
TOTAL EVrENSES                        62          222          321         46 6_ _67
NET PROFIT                              4           46          104         125           140          226
APPROPRIATIONS
Reserves                                            4           46          104         125            140          226
Profits before Provisions as A of average
total assets                                         n.a.          1.4          2.4         2.2           2.0          2.2
Financial expenses as % of average total assets    n.a.                         0.3         1.3           2.7          3.3
Administrative ex'Denses as, % of average total 
assets         e                                     n.a.          5.0          4.9        3.6            2.9          2.3
/ Sharp increase reflects full year basis as against for 6 monthds in 1970 and the employment of three junior
professionals during 1971.
/ Increase in 1572 represents a 30% increase in staff salaries.  A yearly increase of 10% is included for the
1973-1975 period.
2  Includes for the first time 4% interest to Government of Trinidad and Tobago and anterest on their foreign
loans.
DFCD
September 30, 1971



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
Balance Sheet 1970 and. Projected. Balance Sheets, 1971-75
(in TT$ thousahd)
1970        1971        1972        1973         1974        1975
ASSETS                                     (Audited)            -    -------------Projected.----------------------
Cash                                         45          45          84           84          42           49
Temporary Investments                     3,950       3,253       4,353        4,318       3,118        3,118
Accrued Income                               87          67          108         145         195          258
Operational funds                    47,02       3,365       47,547       4,247       3,355        3727
Loans                                        -          570       1,730        3,910       6,819        9,947
Equity Investment                            -          150         650        1,350       2 150        3,050
Portfolio                               -                    2,350        5,260         8         12,997
Less provisions for possible losses          -           14          47          106         184          274
Loans and equity investments (net)      -          77        2,333        5,154       8,785      12,723
Fixed.Assets (net)                           42         135         127          119         111          103
Total assets                         4,124       4,206        7,005       9,520      12,251       16,251
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities                          19          20           30          55         103          146
Long-term debt
Government of Trinidad. and Tobago    2,000       2,000       4,000       4,000        4,000       4,000
Other domestic                          -            -           -           -           -            _
IBRD                                    -           -          685        2,550        3,943       3,674
Other foreign                           -           -            -           -         1,150       4,a50
Total                            2,019        2,020       4,715      96196                    1-177
Share capital                              2,101       2,136       2,136       2636         2,636       3,636
Reserves                                      4          50          154         279         419          645
Total Liabilities and Capital        4,124        4206        7,005       9,520       12251       16,251
Total long-term debt/equity ratio         0.95:1       0.92:1       2.05:1     2.25:1      2.98:1      2.76:1
Debt/Equity ratio under Bank definition   0.95:1       0.92:1      0.34:1      0.63:1      1.04:1      1.25:1
Reserves and Provisions as % of portfolio   nil           8.9         8.4        7.3          6.7        7.1
DFCD
September 30, 1971



ANNEX 6
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
(in TT$ thousands)
1971     1972     1973     1974     1975     Total
APPROVALS
Domestic currency equity
investments                   150      500      700      800      900      3,050
Domestic currency loans          150      400      500      600       700     2,350
Foreign currency loans           750    2,000    2,700    3 000    3 300   11,750
Total approvals                         2,900    3,900 400                  17,150
COMMITMENTS
Domestic currency
50% of current year's
loan approvals                 75      200      250      300      350      1,175
50% of previous year's
loan approvals                 30       75      200      250      300       855
100% of current year's
equity investment approval    150      500      700      800      g00    3,050
Total commitments of
domestic currency              255      755    1,150    1,350    1,550     5,o8o
Foreign currency
50% of current year's
loan approvals                375   1,000    1,350    1,500    1,650      5,875
50% of previous year's
loan approvals                195      375    1 000    1 350    1 500     4,420
Total foreign                    57 0    13750                              10,295
Total commitments                825    2,150    3,500    4,200    4,700    15,375
DISBURSEMENTS
Domestic currency
50% of current year's
loan commitments               55      140      225      275      325     1,020
50% of previoys year's
loan commitments               30       50      135      225      275       715
100% of current year's
equity commitments            150       00      700      800      900     3,050
Total domestic                   235      690   1,060    1,300    1,500    4,785
Foreign Currency
50% of current year's
commitmrents                  285      685   1,175   1,125    1,575      5,145
50% of previous year's
loan coanLTitments            2G0      285      6 o    1175      ,2       3,775
Total foreign                    1        970    1.865    2        3,000     8,920
Total disbursements              720    1,660    2,925    3,900    4,500    13,705
DFCD
September 30, 1971



ANNEX 7
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
Resdurces as of September 30, 1971
(in TT$ thousands)
Domestic Currency
Equity
Share Capital                         2,136
Reserves and retained earnings             4
Total equity                           2,140
Borrowing
Government subordinated loan          2,000
Total Domestic currency               4,140
Fixed assets (net)                       135
4,005
Outstanding commitments                  900
Uncommitted domestic currency          3,105
DFCD
September 30, 1971



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
Projected Sources and. Application of Fund, 1971-75
(In TT$ thousand)
1971          1972           1973           1974           1975
SOURCES
Profits before taxation                  46            104            125           140            226
Depreciation                              7              8              8              8              8
Provisions                               14             33             59             78             90
Cash generation from operation           67            145            192           226            324
Increase in share capital                                             500                         1,000
Increase in subordinated debt                        2sO0O
IBRD loan                                              685          1,865         1,450
Other foreign loans                                                               1,150           3,000
Loan collections:                                                      45           191            472
Against foreign currency loans                                                   ( 57)          (269)
Against local currency loans                                       (45)          (134)          (203)
Increase in c rrent liabilities           1             10             25             8             43
Total Sources                   103         2,84o          2,f627         3,065          4839
USES
Fixed assets                            100
Loan disbursements:                     570          1,160         2,225          3,100          3,600
Foreign currency
Domestic currency
Equity investments                      150            5            700900
Loan repayments:                                                                      57            269
Foreign currency                                                                 ( 57)         (269)
Domestic currency
Increase in receivables                - 20             41             37             5             63
Increase in cash                                        39                          -42               7
Increase in short-term investments    -697             100                          -900
Total Uses                      103         2, 840         2,627          3,065          4,839
DFCD
September 30, 1971



ANNEX 9
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CONPANY
Major Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
1. Income from loans is assumed to be 9.5% per year for the period.
2. Income from equity investments is assumed to be 6% per year with
a two year lag.
3. Interest expenses are based on the following actual and estimated
interest rates on borrowed capital.
Government of Trinidad and Tobago      4%
IBRD                                    7.25%
Other Foreign Sources                  7.25%
4.  Administrative costs represent TTDFC's estimates.
l. A foreign advisor will be provided with salary paid by other
sources.
6.  The company will operate under fiscal concessions with regard to
the income tax over the forecast period.
DFCD
September 30, 1971



ANNEX 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
for a Bank Loan of $2.0 million
($'000)
1972
1st quarter
2nd quarter                                       $ 65
3rd quarter                                        100
4th quarter                                        175
1973
1st quarter                                        210
2nd quarter                                        225
3rd quarter                                        250
4th quarter                                        250
1974
1st quarter                                        250
2nd quarter                                        250
3rd quarter                                        225
$2,000
DFCD
October 13, 1971



