Report No. 1587-BD
Bangladesh                                                                        FILE COPY
Jute Project
December 29, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This doc-ument has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently
the taka, US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been
used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1           =      Tk 15.0
Tk 1           =     US$0.067
Tk 1 miLlion   =      US$67,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)          =   0.405 hectare (ha)
I mile (ml)          =   1.509 kilometers (km)
1 seer               -   2.06 lb (0.78 kg)
i maund (md)         =   40 seer or 82.27 lb (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (MT)         26.8 md
I katcha bale jute   =   4 md
1 pucca bale jute    =   5 md



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADA    - Assistant Director of Agriculture
ADB    - Asian Develolpent Bank
BADC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BJRI   -  Bangladesh Jute Bsearch Institute
BKB    -  Bangladesh Agriciulture Development Bank (Bangladesh Krishi Bank)
DAJ    - Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
GOB    - Government of Bangladesh
HYV    - High Yielding Varieties
IJCS   -  Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
IRDP   -  Integrated Rural Development Program
ISO    -  Input Supply Officer
JEA    -  Jute Extension Assistant
JEO    -  Jute Extension Officer
JFA    -  Jute Farmers' Association
KSS    -  Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity)
SB     -  Sonali Bank
SMS    -  Subject Matter Specialist
TCCA   - Thana Central Cooperative Association
GLOSSARY
Aman         -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December (B. aman is broadcast, T. aman
is transplanted)
Aus          -  Rice planted during March and April and harvested during
July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is transplanted)
Block        -  Smallest unit in the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme -
200 or 400 acres jute
Boro         -  Rice planted in winter and harvested during April to June
Char         -  Low-lying sandy land
District     -  Administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are 19 Districts
in the country
Katcha bale  -  Jute bale compressed by manually powered press, weighs 4 maunds
Paddy        -  Unhulled rice
Pucca bale   -  Jute bale compressed by hydraulic press, weighs 5 maunds
Thana        -  Administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are 413 thanas in
the country
Unit         -  Intermediate unit in the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme - formed by 5 to 10 blocks - about 2,000 acres jute
Zone         -  Largest unit in the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme - formed
by 25 units - about 50,000 acres jute
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE JUTE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS      ......................    i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .................................... .      1
II.   BACKGROUND  ............ ................... . .1
III.   THE PROJECT .............. . .... .................       7
A.   Brief Description .*       .....................     7
B.   Detailed Features ..... .............               8
C.   Implementation Schedule ................ .         11
D.   Cost Estimates and Financing      ............     12
E.   Procurement and Disbursements      ...........     14
F.   Accounts and Audits ........... ..........         15
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..................          16
A.  Coordination ..........                             16
B.   Project Agencies ............ ............         16
C.   Training ................................          18
D.   Credit Arrangements ........... ..........         19
E.   Monitoring and Evaluation ...............          21
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMERS' BENEFITS ..          21
VI.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .................... ...         24
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .................................        26
Schedule A -   Lending Terms and Conditions
Annex 1    -   Jute Production
Table 1   -  Area Sown to Jute
Annex 2    -   Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
Table 1   -   IJCS Activities 1973/74-1975/76
Table 2    -   IJCS Survey Classification of Farmers
Table 3    -   Summary Results of IJCS Survey
Table 4    -   IJCS Location of Existing Scheme and of New Scheme
Annex 3    -   Jute Research
Table 1   -   Organization Chart Jute Research Institute



-2-
Appendix I -   Provisions for Stren.ythening Jute Research
Appendix 2 -   Terms of Reference oE Consultants to be Provided
Under a UNDP Project
Appendix 3 -   Topics for Consideration for a Research Program
Annex 4    -   Credit for Production and Marketing
Table I    -   Sonali Bank Growth from 1972
Table 2    -   Sonali Bank Condensed Balance Sheet
Table 3    -   Sonali Bank Condensed Statement of Net Income
Table 4    -   Sonali Bank Staffing Pattern
Table 5    -   Sonali Bank Existing Branch Network in Intensive
Jute Cultivation Scheme Area
Table 6    -   Sonali Bank Production Loans through TCCA
Annex 5    -   Internal Jute Market:Lng
Table 1    -   Jute Marketing Costs Loose Jute Storage at Village Level
Table 2    -   Jute Marketing Costs Storing with Katcha Baling
Table 3    -   Income and Cash flow for Farmers' Group Jute Marketing Activity
Annex 6    -   Organization
Appendix I -   Project Agencies and their Project Related Activities
Appendix 2 -   Draft Terms of Reference for Advisors
Appendix 3 -   Guidelines for Duties. and Qualifications of DAJ Staff
Annex 7    -   Monitoring and Evaluation
appendix   -   Draft Terms of Reference for Project Evaluation
Annex 8    -   Implementation Schedule
Table 1    -   Implementation Schedule
Schedule 1 -   Recruitment Schedule for Headquarters
Schedule 2 -   Recruitment Schedule for ADA, DADA, SMS
Schedule 3 -   Recruitment Schedule for JEO and ISO
Schedule 4 -   Recruitment and Service Schedule for Advisors
Schedule 5 -   Transport Procurement Schedule
Schedule 6 -   Implements Procurement Schedule
Schedule 7 -   Construction Schedule
Annex 9    -   Cost Estimates
Table  I   -   Summary
Table  2   -   Short Term Credit
Table  3   -  Marketing Infrastructure
Table  4   -   Implements
Table  5   -   Extension Service Staffing
Table  6   -   Extension Service Allowances
Table  7   -   Buildings and Office Equipment



-3-
Table  8   -   Transport
Table  9   -   Extension Service Materials and Equipment
Table 10   -   Technical Assistance
Table 11   -   Percentage Used for Price Contingencies
Annex 10   -   Crop Production Costs and Returns
Table  1   -   Jute Production Costs
Table  2   -   Financial Returns from Jute
Table  3   -   Costs and Returns Local Aus
Table  4   -   Costs and Returns Improved Aus
Annex 11   -   Reporting Requirements
Appendix 1 -   Guidelines for Headings and Contents of the Quarterly Report
Table  1  -   Credit Withdrawals
Table  2   -   Project Implementation Summary
Table  3   -   Jute Production Information
Table  4   -   Jute Marketing
Table  4a  -   Consolidated Jute Marketing Income and Expenditure (IJCS)
Table  4b  -   Consolidated Jute Marketing Income and Expenditure (IRDP)
Table  5   -   Short Term Credit Physical Information
Table  6a  -   Short Term Credit Financial Information Credit Through
Directorate of Agriculture
Table  6b  -   Short Term Credit - Financial Information Credit Through IRDP
Table  6c  -   Short Term Credit - Financial Information Total Credit
Table  7   -   IJCS Staff Information
Table  8   -   Progress of Construction
Table  9   -   Progress of Construction Tenders and Contracts
Table 10   -   Progress of Tenders and Orders for Building Materials
Table 11   -   Progress of Tenders and Orders for Implements, Equipment,
Furniture and Materials other than Building Materials
Annex 12   -   Economic Analysis
Table 1    -   Economic Price for Paddy
Table 2    -   Economic Price for Jute
Table 3    -   Alternative I - Sown Area, Yields and Production
Table 4    -   Alternative I - Prices and Benefits
Table 5    -   Alternative I - Production Cost and Incremental Working
Capital
Table 6    -   Alternative II - Sown Area, Yields & Production
Table 7    -  Alternative II - Prices and Benefits
Table 8    -  Alternative II - Production Cost and Incremental Working
Capital
Table 9    -   Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return
Table 10   -   Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return
Jute Marketing Component



Annex 13   -   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Annex 14   -   List of Documents and Titles Included in the Project File
Chart I    -   W.B. 17424:  Implementation Schedule
Chart 2    -   W.B. 17096:  Credit from DAJ to Farmers
Chart 3    -   W.B. 17337:  Credit from IRDP to Farmers
Chart 4    -   W.B. 17095:  DAJ Headquarters Organization
Map IBRD   12761



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a jute project covering 16 districts of
Bangladesh. The project would support a five year program costing US$33.3
million to increase the productivity of jute cultivation, thus making the
product more competitive in world markets, and introduce a trial jute mar-
keting scheme aimed at improving marketing efficiency and increasing farm
gate prices.
ii.       Jute is Bangladesh's most important cash crop.  It is grown by al-
most half its farmers, provides 80% of the country's export revenue and is
the raw material for the country's most important industry. In recent years
Bangladesh jute has faced many problems. World demand has dropped with change
in packaging technology, competition from synthetics and, until 1975, high
price of jute products. Fiber production has declined owing to high paddy
price and diversion of jute land to paddy production. With the 1975 Taka
devaluation, Bangladesh jute products became competitive with synthetics and
with two good rice crops and decline in food grain prices, jute production
has partially recovered.
iii.      To remain competitive, jute yields must be increased, production
costs lowered, manufacturing efficiency improved and marketing streamlined.
To ensure stable production, an effective jute pricing mechanism should be
introduced. Past and ongoing program credits are supporting the manufactur-
ing industry; a recent IDA Foodgrain Price Policy Review Mission is develop-
ing recommendations for a foodgrain and jute pricing mechanism; and this
project would focus on fiber production and marketing aspects.
iv.       Jute yields have been static for decades, but a package of improved
practices identified by the Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI) over
ten years ago showed that more than double current average yields are possible.
In 1973 the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) introduced the Intensive Jute Cul-
tivation Scheme (TJCS) which combines intensive extension work with assured
credit and inputs supplies. The scheme covered 0.3 million acres in 1976
and reportedly expanded to 0.5 million acres in 1977. An IDA supervised
survey has shown a 50% average yield increase under the scheme and resultant
reduced production costs per bale of jute. The project would strengthen this
scheme with specialist staff, vehicles, housing and incremental credit and
expand its coverage to one million acres.
v.        Jute marketing at the village level is monopolized by middlemen who
frequently exploit farmers by short weighing and undergrading of produce.
Jute may change hands several times before reaching mills or exporters. Lack
of storage in production areas causes fiber spoilage and lack of baling presses
increases transport costs and strains the limited transport facilities. The



- ii -
present system is expensive and farmers do not receive full reward for efforts
to improve production. The project would introduce a trial under which storage
and baling facilities would be provided to farmers to enable them to obtain a
better price for their product.
vi.       The project would include:
(a) Incremental short term production and marketing credit
(US$14.3 million);
(b) Jute storage sheds and baling presses (US$1.0 million);
(c) Implements for farmers (US$1.5 million);
(d) Incremental extension staff (US$4.7 million);
(e) Staff housing and office equipment (US$9.3 million);
(f) Motor vehicles, motoccycles, and bicycles (US$1.7 million);
(g) Extension equipment and materials (US$0.2 million); and
(h) Consultants, overseas training and monitoring (US$0.6 million).
vii.      Of the estimated total US$33.3 million project cost, which includes
US$3.8 million duties and taxes, US$8.6 million or 26% would be foreign ex-
change costs. The proposed US$21 million IDA credit would finance about 71%
of total project cost net of ditties and taxes.
viii.     Vehicles and other e9nuinment would be purchased over a four year
period and dispersed in rural areas. To ensure adequate maintenance and
spares, they would be procured after local competitive bidding among local
firms and representatives of foreign suppliers having adequate local mainte-
nance facilities. Office furn:-ture and jute farming implements would be of
local design and manufactured ;.ocally and wouid be procured by local competi-
tive bidding. Civil works would each be small, widely scattered geographically
with some in locations with difficult access and would be constructed over a
five year period. The works would not be suitable for international competi-
tion and contracts would be subject to local competitive bidding. Existing
procedures for local competitive bidding are satisfactory.
ix.       GOB would onlend US$X.8 million of the credit to Sonali Bank, the
leading commercial bank in Bangladesh, now fully nationalized, for lending to
jute farmers for production and marketing either through the Directorate of
Agriculture (Jute) (DAJ) the present channel, or in the 11 "thanas" covered
by the Rural Development Project (Credit 631-BD) and a similar Asian Develop-
ment Bank Project, through cooFeratives under the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP). If successful, IRDP could in time become the main credit
channel for the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme, as more of its cooperatives
are strengthened by measures similar to those being implemented by the Rural
Development Project. At present, different lending institutions charge farmers



- iii -
different interest rates for crop production loans. GOB has now indicated
its intention to introduce a uniform rate of about 12% per annum, to be
applied to all agricultural development loans - short and medium term. On-
lending terms and conditions under this project have been tliscussed and
agreed with the Government.
x.        US$12.6 million of the credit would be channeled to DAJ, the main
implementing agency. DAJ, which would have no responsibilities outside
the operation of IJCS, would be responsible for most project activities --
providing extension and inputs in the entire project area and implementing
the production credit program and the pilot marketing scheme outside the
specified 11 thanas. Under this marketing scheme farmers would have their
fiber graded, baled and stored in stores constructed and equipped with baling
facilities provided by the Project. These stores would be operated by IRDP
cooperatives or DAJ in the 11 thanas, and by DAJ in the other project areas.
Farmers would receive the government minimum farmgate prica for their fiber,
which would be sold, in due time, as appropriate, to mills and exporters,
taking advantage of seasonal price fluctuations. Farmers would be charged
marketing fees and rental charges, to cover costs. This activity is to be
undertaken on an experimental basis and would cover, at maturity, about 3%
of forecast production from the project area. If successful, this pilot
marketing scheme could be refined as appropriate and supported by IDA under
some future GOB project.
xi.       Coordination between the two main project agencies (DAJ and Sonali
Bank) and a number of supporting agencies dealing with inputs, research and
marketing would be attained through a national coordination committee,
supported by district level committees.
xii.      About one million farm families would benefit from improved jute
production which would increase jute yields, reduce production cost per unit
of jute and consequently improve farmers' income. Nearly all are small far-
mers, over 90% owning 2 acres of land or less. Up to 100,000 families would
benefit from higher prices and secure sales outlet for part of this produc-
tion, which would result from the trial marketing scheme; other jute farmers
would benefit indirectly from improved prices due to increased competition
in marketing.
xiii.     The project would increase jute yields and reduce production costs.
This would enable Bangladesh to either maintain jute production at present
levels and release approximately 400,000 acres for paddy growing or, alterna-
tively, use its improved competitive position to capture a larger share of
the world market for jute and its substitutes, although possibly at somewhat
lower prices. In practice, the actual situation resulting from the project
would presumably be somewhere between these two alternatives, with some increase
in the total jute production and some decrease in the jute acreage in non-IJCS
areas. The rates of return of the two extreme alternatives are both above 50%,
indicating that the rate of return of the project in either case would also be
above 50%. The rate of return of the marketing component alone is about 50%.
xiv       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$21 million on
standard terms.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE JUTE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The ongoing 13 projects supported by IDA in the agricultural sector
(with total IDA credits of US$236.2 million) include five irrigation projects
and one each for cyclone area reconstruction, foodgrain storage, cereal seed
production, fertilizer production, agricultural training, rural development,
shallow tubewells, and extension and research. Past and ongoing program
credits have supported the jute manufacturing industry and continue to do
so. This project would be the first to focus on jute production and market-
ing. It would meet the special needs of the Bangladesh economy for quick
yielding projects in key sectors of the economy to increase rural income,
and employment. The project would safeguard future prospects of the
country's most important cash crop and source of export revenue.
1.02      Progress in implementing IDA supported agricultural projects since
Bangladesh attained independence in 1971, has been slow. However, over the
twelve months preceding appraisal of this project there has been a marked
acceleration owing to improvements in GOB's project administration, partly
due to effective follow-up by the IDA Resident Mission. While many project
implementation problems persist, these as well as recent improvements in per-
formance were taken into account in project design and the objectives and
targets of this project which is based on strengthening a successful ongoing
GOB program, should be attainable.
1.03      The project was prepared by GOB staff with help from the Resident
Mission. This report is based on GOB's Preparation Report and on findings of
an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. G. Stern, S. Bhatia, S. Suntharalingam
(IDA) and T. Warda1e (consultant) that visited Bangladesh in November/December
1976. The mission was assisted by Messrs. D. Beal (FAO/IBRD/CP), F. Haworth
and S. Shaikh (consultants) members of the Extension and Research Project
appraisal mission that visited Bangladesh during the same period and by
Mr. L. Plesch (Loan Officer). A project file supplementary to this report
has been prepared for project supervision and management use.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Bangladesh with an area of 55,000 square miles and a population of
about 81 million, growing at 3% per annum, is among the most densely populated
countries in the world. Due to this as well as meager natural resources,
poor physical infrastructure and frequent natural calamities much of the _
population lives at or below absolute poverty levels. The current annual
per capita income of US$110 is among the lowest in the world.



-2-
2.02      Since Independence the country's development efforts have met with
mixed fortunes. Rehabilitation from cyclone and war damage was a notable
achievement, but overall economic performance has been below expectation,
partly for reasons beyond GOB's control. In the last 18 months the new
administration has initiated determined measures to speed up development by
improving the efficiency of the public sector and by encouraging the private
sector to play a greater role. Results have been encouraging and have been
assisted by favorable climatic conditions which have led to two successive
record harvests. GOB's efforts to improve economic performance attach great
importance to exports which will continue to be dominated by the jute industry
for the forseeable future.
Agriculture
2.03      Agriculture dominates the economy.  About 90% of the population
lives in rural areas mostly dependent on agriculture. The sector accounts for
55% of GNP, 75% of all employment and over 80% of all exports. In recent years
the sector has been unable to feed the rapidly increasing population, expand
export revenue sufficiently, or provide adequate employment to the largely
unskilled and illiterate labor force.
2.04      Practically all the cultivable area of 22.5 million acres is already
under cultivation and future production gains will require more intensive
land use and higher yields. Total cropped area was 30.1 million acres in
1974/75, and cropping intensity 134%. Rice (24.2 million acres) is the most
important food crop and jute (1.4 million acres) the most important cash crop.
2.05      While soils are fertile and temperatures allow year round cropping,
agricultural development is constrained by serious natural difficulties. The
country is dominated by the delta of one of the greatest river systems in the
world which, together with monsoo'a rains (75% of total precipitation falls
in three to four months), causes widespread flooding during part of the year.
Some 5.5 million acres are flooded annually.  On the other hand, only about 2.5
million acres are irrigated. The rivers present transportation difficulties,
and facilities for moving farm produce and inputs are inadequate and expensive.
In addition, cyclone disasters are frequent.
2.06      Perhaps even more restri-ctive are sociological constraints.  Some
30% of village dwellers are landless and among the farmers who own land about
50% cultivate 2.5 acres or less, wqhich is usually fragmented into four or five
plots.
2.07      Generally, Bangladesh farmers are hardworking and receptive to
proven improved farming practices, However, their efforts are often frus-
trated by inadequate agricultural research and advice, and inadequate supplies
of inputs and credit. The Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) developed
by the Bangladesh Ministry of Agriculture (see para 2.14) has shown encourag-
ing success in delivering correct advice, credit and inputs to jute farmers
and therefore forms the basis for this project.



-3-
Jute Production Trends
2.08      Jute plays a crucial part in the Bangladesh economy.  It provides
about 80% of export revenue and is the raw material for the country's most
important industry.
2.09      Since independence in 1971 the Bangladesh jute industry has faced
serious problems. The world market for fiber and manufactured jute goods
has stagnated, and manufactured jute goods have come under increasing pressure
from competing countries and from synthetics. The area under jute declined
from about 2 million acres to 1.2 million acres in 1974, while fiber produc-
tion dropped from 7.2 million bales in 1969/70 to 3.9 million bales in 1974/75
-- the lowest production in 20 years. The acreage drop was due to a shift by
farmers to paddy owing to high paddy prices in recent years, while the drop in
exports resulted from the high price of Bangladesh jute fiber and jute goods.
With good rice harvests in the last two years and a consequent decline in the
rice price, the jute acreage has again increased. The May 1975 Taka devalua-
tion has improved the competitiveness of Bangladesh jute products and led to
a recovery of exports.
2.10      To ensure the competitiveness of Bangladesh jute fiber and goods,
particularly vis-a-vis synthetics, there must be assurance of regular supplies
of fiber and goods at competitive prices. Measures are needed to improve the
efficiency of jute production, marketing and manufacture and the effectiveness
of the jute fiber pricing mechanisms. The farm gate jute price is determined
by the Jute Ministry without adequate information on costs and returns of jute
and competing paddy crops and this factor has contributed to jute production
fluctuations (para 2.09). Steps for improving jute manufacture have been
taken under the Fourth and Fifth Imports Program Credits (Credits 591-BD and
676-BD); a sixth Imports Program Credit, which would also support jute manu-
facture, is at an advanced stage of processing. This project would focus on
increasing yields and improving crop quality. The findings of an IDA supported
Food Policy Mission which visited Bangladesh earlier this year should help in
establishing a satisfactory jute price mechanism.
Jute Production (Annex 1)
2.11      The Bangladesh climate and most of its soils are particularly suit-
able for jute production.  Ample water supplies for growth anad fOL x,.iug give
the country an advantage over others in quality jute production. Varieties of
both Capsularis and Olitorius species are grown.  The former resists flooding
and constitutes about 60%-70% of the crop. About 0.5 million acres of lowland
are sown to jute every year because other crops are not competitive in these
flood prone situations. About the same acreage is planted to jute as part of
the traditional crop rotation. Acreage in excess of this basic one million
fluctuates according to the jute/rice price relationship.
2.12      Jute areas are grouped into three regions:  the Jat, Northern and
District Regions (see map IBRD 12761). The heaviest jute producing districts
are Mymensingh (Jat), Rangpur (Northern) and Faridpur (District). Because
of better soil and plentiful retting facilities, jute in the Jat area gives
higher yields and has higher quality than jute grown in other areas. The



-4-
project would concentrate on expanding improved jute cultivation in the Jat
areas, and in Rangpur and Faridputr districts which together contain about three
fourths of the total jute acreage. Because of a higher proportion of season-
ally flooded and water logged land, about 80% of the jute in the Jat and
Northern areas is Capsularis, whEreas it comprises only 40% of the total in
the District with a higher proportion of well drained soils. In parts of
the Northern and District areas retting water is scarce and this factor de-
presses fiber quality. In addition, the Northern area lacks storage and
baling facilities and is remote from the jute manufacturing and fiber ex-
porting centers, so that jute farmers there have greater difficulties with
jute marketing than in other areas. The pilot marketing component of the
project (para 3.10) would pay particular attention to this area.
2.13      Since most farmers continue to use traditional methods for jute
production, yields have stagnated for decades at about three bales per acre.
Yields of up to six bales per acre have however been obtained in recent years
by farmers who have adopted extension service recommendations.
Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) (Annex 2)
2.14      This scheme started to function in 1973 and by 1976 had covered
about 290,000 acres. It is executed by the Directorate of Agriculture
(Jute)(DAJ) which arranges credit and inputs for participants and teaches
them a proven package of improved practices including:
a.   use of good seed of recommended varieties;
b.   seed dressing to prevent plant disease;
c.   line sowing and improved weeding methods;
d.   correct sowing and harvesting times;
e.   correct fertilizer use; and
f.   plant protection, mainly against insect pests.
The scheme is orgnized irtn ripe 70nes pphb hsA8 by Pn Asa±stant D4rector
of Agriculture (ADA), which in turn are subdivided into 150 units of about
2000 acres, each supervised by a Jute Extension Officer (JEO), and 1500 jute
blocks of 200 acres each with a Jute Extension Assistant (JEA).
2.15      Participating farmers are required to be members of Jute Farmers'
Associations (JFA's) each coinciding with a block, to provide a focus for
extension and to facilitate inputs and credit distribution by DAJ. JFA have
formed committees at unit, zonal and national level to exchange experiences
and to discuss problems.
2.16      The combination of concentrated extension and effective inputs
and credit distribution through JFiA's has been successful. GOB evaluation



- 5 -
confirmed by a Bank assisted sample survey showed that jute yields of parti-
cipants in 1975 averaged 4.5 bales per acre compared to 2.9 bales outside
the scheme and that net returns per acre were an estimated Tk 765 and Tk 330
respectively.
2.17      While results at the farm level have been very good other implementa-
tion targets have not been achieved by IJCS. Of the 1976 goal of 0.7 million
acres only 0.3 million acres were covered. Inadequate finance and lack of
personnel have been the main constraints. The situation has improved recently
and IJCS had adequate staff to cover 0.5 million acres during 1977. Some
major handicaps remain, including lack of accommodation for JEA, inadequate
transport, and insufficient farm implements. Extension officers' effective-
ness is constrained by administrative tasks and by lack of technical back up.
Finally, for larger scale expansion, the credit program needs strengthening.
The project would address these deficiencies. IJCS supporting services, not
controlled by DAJ are described in paras 2.18-2.24 below.
Research (Annex 3)
2.18      The Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI) under the Ministry of
Jute is organized into three Directorates -- Agricultural Research, Technology
Research and Seed Multiplication. The Agricultural Research Directorate with
a staff of 40 scientists carries out plant breeding, and research into
cultivation practices, plant protection and retting. There have been few
advances since a package of improved practices was identified over ten years
ago. Work has been handicapped by lack of land at BJRI and a new main research
farm is now under development. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) Jute Seed
Project and a supporting UNDP Jute Seed Research and Production Project are
helping to finance develop-nent of research farms, equipment, transport, ex-
perts ar,u overseas training. Tnis should help to step up research activities
and no additional investment is needed for the time being.
2.19      BJRI provides training for IJCS staff, but linkage between research,
extension and farmers is inadequ-ate.  Improvement of such liaison would be
attempted under the project appraised in this report (para 3.09).
Inputs
2.20      The Seed Directorate of the BJiG is responsible for production and
distribution of certified jute seeds. Its present annual capacity is about
750 tons of seed, enough for about 200,000 acres jute and the entire supply is
reserved for IJCS. Seed quality is satisfactory, but because seed processing
facilities are inadequate, supplies are reduced by adverse weather at harvest-
ing time and therefore fluctuate from year to year. In the current season,
for instance, supplies have been unsatisfactory. The ongoing ADB Jute Seed
Project aims to provide processing facilities and expand production to 2,000
tons seed per annum which would be enough to renew all jute seed once in three
years.
2.21      The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) has
developed an efficient fertilizer supply system for IJCS. Jute staff inform
BADC of the requirements, which are delivered by a BADC subagent appointed



-6-
for each jute block.  BADC is expanding its fertilizer storage facilities and
in addition, IDA is financing a fertilizer marketing and distribution study to
help BADC to reorganize and strengthen its distribution network to cater for
anticipated increase in fertilizer demand for all crops. The study will also
examine the possible need for new investments to improve fertilizer distribu-
tion. With these measures, the fertilizer supply system should be satisfactory.
2.22      Pesticides are stocked at thana level by the Directorate of Agri-
culture (Extension and Management) -DEM- of the Ministry of Agriculture and
sold to farmers at half price. An ongoing project supported by UNDP aims at
strengthening the plant protection activities of DEM. DEM is also in charge of
the general extension service and its effectiveness is being improved by the
adoption of the Training and Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension. An
IDA-financed project (Extension and Research Project-Credit 729-BD) supports
the T&V extension system in the North-West Region of the country. In addition,
GOB is investigating the possibility of handing the pesticides trade over to
the private sector. These modifications would improve the quality of the plant
protection service and enable extension staff, under the guidance of plant
protection specialists, to teach the farmers correct and safe pesticide use.
However, deliberations are at an early stage and the outcome is yet uncertain.
In the meantime, the existing system has served IJCS farmers adequately.
Credit (Annex 4)
2.23      An IDA Agricultural Credit Review mission to Bangladesh in 1975
pointed out that operations of the two main agricultural credit agencies --
the Bangladesh Cooperative Bank (BJSB) 1/ and the Bangladesh Agricultural
Bank (BKB) -- 2/ were seriously corLstrained by their delinquent debt burden.
Both IDA, with financing under Credit 622-BD and ADB are providing technical
assistance to review the overall agricultural credit system and make recom-
mendations for its improvement. BK<B has provided IJCS farmers with credit,
but, because of collateral requirements, the Bank's relatively small branch
network and complex procedures, larger farmers have benefitted mainly.
Recovery reportedly averages 85% on BKB loans to jute growers.
2.24      To improve the situation GOB has asked commercial banks to increase
their agricultural credit. Sonali Bank (SB), the largest commercial bank (now
nationalized) has taken a lead in this field. Against Government guarantee,
it is already providing inputs credit to IJCS amounting to Tk 4.7 million in
1976, by lending to DAJ, which onlends to farmers. Loans are for six months
and recovery levels in 1975 and 1975 were 92% and 90% respectively. With its
strong reserve base, large and expalding branch network and experience in
agricultural lending and jute markeAing, Sonali Bank would be well qualified
to provide IJCS credit arrangements in the future, as planned for the project
(para 3.03). Its management is keenly interested in expanding assistance of
this type to smallholders and has agreed to provide up to Tk 90 million of
its own funds for IJCS credit requirements.
1/   Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank.
2/   Bangladesh Krishi Bank.



- 7-
Domestic Jute MSarketing (Annex 5)
2.25      Domestic marketing involves farmers, a variety of jute traders,
jute mills and government corporations. Most farmers sell small ungraded
lots of jute at village markets to village middlemen. The product may
change hands a number of times, as it is assembled into larger lots before
it reaches large traders or government corporations in secondary markets.
There, jute may be stored for varying periods and is consigned either as
loose jute or, after katcha baling, 1/ to terminal markets or jute mills.
There are many variations of this procedure and jute may bypass secondary
markets.
2.26      GOB declares a minimum farmgate price, but in some years, par-
ticularly when there is a heavy crop, most farmers have to sell at the lower
prices that are set by traders. The farmer is in the weakest position in
the marketing chain, often subject to traders' harassment and collusion.
Short weighing and downgrading by middlemen is widespread, but at present,
most farmers have no alternative sales outlet.
2.27      Two Government jute corporations, under the Ministry of Jute, have
been established to buy jute from farmers and by competing to ensure that
farmers receive the minimum price. However, the corporations have too few
buying centers (only 280) to be effective. The corporations have also been
handicapped by severe management and financial problems and it is expected that
consultants, financed under UK bilateral assistance, will shortly commence a
study of the operations of these corporations and make recommendations for
improvements.
2.28      In addition, jute marketing is constrained by inadequate storage and
baling facilities in the production areas, and the pricing system makes such
A small allowance for grade differences that there is little incentive for
farmers to improve jute quality.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The principal objectives of the project would be to improve the
productivity of jute farming, and thus farmers' incomes by helping them to
increase yields, improve quality of fibre and reduce production costs. About
one million acres of jute would be the subject of project actions which would
be carried out over a five year period and which would provide:
a.   Jute Production
i. Short term credit
1/   katcha baling is a manually operated mechanical baling process.  An
average katcha bale weighs 4 maunds.



ii. Equipment - seed drills and hand hoes;
iii. Extension Services - salaries for incremental staff, housing,
transport, extension materials and equipment;
b.   Jute Marketing
i.   Short term credit
ii.   Marketing Infrastructure - jute stores and baling presses; and
c.   Technical Assistance - consultants, overseas training and
monitoring services.
B. Detailed Features
Jute Production
3.02      The ongoing Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) covered 0.5
million acres in 16 districts in 1977. The project would strengthen IJCS with
production credit, additional staff, transport and housing and would expand
its coverage to one million acres by 1981. Expansion would be mainly concen-
trated in seven districts (Mymensingh, Tangail, Dacca, Comilla, Jessore,
Rangpur and Faridpur - see Map) which have the heaviest jute concentration
and most favorable growing conditions. The following components would support
jute production:
3.03      Short Term Credit (Annex 4).  The project would provide Tk 125
million for production credit unc-er the arrangements described in paras 4.12
through 4.16 and Schedule A. Sor,ali Bank would channel credit to farmers
and the exerution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
GOB and Sonali Bank and ratification of a project agreement between IDA and
Sonali Bank (SB) would be conditions of effectiveness.  Project credit would
be for credit requirements incregental to the Tk 20 million level disbursed
to farmers under IJCS in 1977. Credit requirements are based on field surveys
that indicate about 60% of jute growers would seek seasonal credit.
3.04      Equpment.  25,000 seed drills and 20,000 hand-pushed hoes would be
supplied to the IJCS expansion areas. As in the ongoing scheme, DAJ would own
the equipment and would distribute it to farmers' associations. Both types
of equipment are locally made; seeders cost Tk 500 each and hoes Tk 300.
Although their use is beneficial the cost of these implements is very high
compared with the income of most farmers. Given this cost, and that on the
average farm they are used for a very short period of time purchase of these
implements is beyond the means of the majority of farmers. Purchase by jute
farmers' associations and rental to individual members is an option, but
would involve a degree of cash collection and record keeping inconsistent with
the investment concerned, an average of about Tk 14,000 per association.
Another factor is that the design of the seed drills requires improvement to
ensure a more even sowing rate. For the present, therefore, provision of these



- 9 -
implements would continue to be financed 100% by GOB. The ADB financed Seeds
Project is providing an agricultural engineer to work on improved designs for
the seed drills and when these implements are improved, GOB will consider
charging a fee for use of both the drills and the hand hoes.
3.05      GOB's Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) carries
a large stock of hand sprayers and assurances have been obtained that it would
make available from its stock the 20,000 units estimated to be required for
pest control for the project. Sprayers have a small cost (about 300 Tk each)
and are usually bought jointly by a group of farmers; it has therefore been
possible for the banks and cooperatives to finance their purchase under short-
term loans in the past. Under the project, SB would provide short-term credit
for their purchase.
3.06      Extension Staff.  Over the five year period the project would sup-
port the following new IJCS staff: 9 senior administrative and technical
staff for headquarters, 11 ADA each with a deputy ADA at the zonal level and
250 JEO's and support staff at the unit level. In addition, to relieve exten-
sion staff of administrative burdens, 500 Assistant Input Supply Officers
(ISOs) would be employed to deal with distribution of equipment, credit and
inputs. Forty Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) would be appointed, two to
each zone (a plant protection specialist and an agronomy/extension specialist),
to provide technical backup to other field staff, conduct field research and
demonstrations and participate in training JEO and JEA. Appointment of these
staff is critical to the success of the project and 47% of project costs would
be incurred in providing for their salaries, offices, equipment, transport and
housing. Assurances have been obtained that GOB would make sufficient budget
provision for payment of adequate travel and daily allowances for extension
staff.
3.07      Housing and Office Equipment.  At present, JEA suffer much hardship
due to lack of suitable housing. To overcome this problem, 2500 houses would
be constructed under the project, one for each JEA. Each house would have a
floor area of about 300 square feet which would include a small office/store.
A 200 square foot pole and roof-type shed would be attached to the house where
JEA would meet with groups of jute farmers.  Construction materials would depend
on availability in each locality. Actual housing standards and designs would
duplicate, as far as possible, those employed for housing construction under
the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD). Project buildings would
be maintained by DAJ and assurances have been obtained that GOB would provide
adequate funds for such maintenance. The preparation and supervision of the
building component would be contracted by DAJ to a local consulting firm of
architect/engineers which would be responsible for assisting GOB in the pre-
qualification of bidders, preparation of tender documents and evaluation of
bids, procurement of building material if required and supervision of con-
struction works. Assurances have been obtained that a consulting firm with
qualification, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA would be
appointed before April 1, 1978. The project would also provide 250 sets of
office furniture for new unit offices, including typewriters and calculators.



- 10 -
3.08      Transport.  To ensure adequate mobility for DAJ staff, the project
would include purchase of 34 motor vehicles, (10 speedboats would be provided
for areas deeply flooded, the remainder 24 would be mostly fourwheel drive
vehicles) for headquarters and zonal staff, 1060 motorcycles for Deputy ADAs,
SMSs, JEOs and ISOs and 2500 bicycles for JEAs. Motor vehicles would be
departmentally owned. Assurances have been obtained that the bicycles and
motorcycles would be made available to the staff of DAJ under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA. They will be sold on credit with adequate incentives
to encourage staff to purchase vehiicles, and in accordance with a formula
prepared for the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
3.09      Demonstration and Field Research Materials and Equipment.  The proj-
ect would provide funds for inputs3 for at least one field demonstration or
field trial per jute block each year. The demonstrations and trials would be
designed by SMISs in close collaboration with BJRI staff; coordination of the
jute research program at the national level would be ensured by the Coordina-
tion Committee (para 4.01). The project would also provide extension staff
with teaching materials such as charts, leaflets, posters, projectors and
slides.
Marketing
3.10      The proposed marketing scheme would offer farmers an alternative
sales outlet to village middlemen and would aim to increase the price farmers
receive and give incentives for improving grades. The project would finance
construction of storage sheds, each equipped with a katcha baling press, to be
owned and operated by DAJ. Farmers would deliver jute to the sheds and would
receive the government minimum farmgate price for jute delivered. The jute
would be graded, baled and stored to take advantage of the seasonal price
rise. After sale to private exporters, government corporations or jute mills,
farmers would be paid the balance of the sales proceeds, less interest and
service charges. In selected thanas, cooperatives operating under the Inte-
grated Rural Development Program (IRDP) would be permitted to lease the sheds
from DAJ and carry out themselves the marketing operation. In each of these
marketing units, a committee comprising representatives of DAJ, Sonali Bank
and JFAs would guide and supervise the management by DAJ or TCCA.
3.11      The scheme would fulfill a most important need, but the proposed
operation has not been tried in Bangladesh before. Calculations (Annex 5,
para 17) indicate that it should be financially feasible, but there would be
difficult managerial and organizational problems to overcome. Despite strong
technical backup, to be financed by the project, the risks involved in the
marketing component are considerabLe. Consequently, the component has been
kept small -- 50 sheds to handle 3J,000 tons jute, about 3% of forecast pro-
duction for the project area. If successful, large scale replication could
be considered for a follow-up project.
3.12      Short Term Marketing Credit.  The project would provide Tk 30 mil-
lion short term credit for purchase of farmers' jute under the arrangements
described in para 4.17.



- 11 -
3.13      Marketing Infrastructure.  Jute storage sheds equipped with baling
presses would be constructed under the pilot marketing scheme. Sheds would
have corrugated iron sheet and local pole walls, corrugated iron sheet and
timber truss roof, and rammed earth floor. Fifty sheds, each with 2,000
katcha bale (8000 maunds) storage capacity would be constructed. Each would
serve a unit of five jute blocks. Design is based on the assumption that
farmers would sell only part of their jute through the marketing scheme and,
with at least one turnover, the storage capacity of each shed would be suf-
ficient to handle about one third of the jute produced in the 2000 acre unit
area. As the design is not definitive DAJ would test a number of variations
on this theme.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.14      Two internationally recruited experts would assist the Director of
Agriculture (Jute) -- a project management expert for 24 months and a market-
ing specialist also for 24 months; the cost of such assistance is estimated at
US$5,000 per man-month. Draft terms of reference are given in Annex 6,
Appendix 2. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that the consultants would
be appointed promptly on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and in any
case not later than -- management expert - April 1, 1978; market specialist
- July 1, 1978.
3.15      The project would include a detailed evaluation of IJCS to be car-
ried out, under the supervision of the Planning Cell of the Ministry of
Agriculture, by a suitably qualified socio/economic research institute under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Guidelines for the system to be
employed are given in Annex 7. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that a
contract, acceptable to IDA, for this work would be signed by March 1, 1978.
3.16      The project would also finance a total of 48 weeks overseas train-
ing for project staff and for selected JFA members and Sonali Bank staff.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.17      All project components, except construction of houses, would be
completed in four years (Annex 8 and Chart 1).  Coverage of IJCS would be
expected to expand by 50,000 acres in the first year and by 100,000 acres,
150,000 acres and 200,000 acres respectively in the succeeding three years.
Staff recruitment, construction, purchase of transport equipment and mater-
ials, and build up of credit disbursements would be phased accordingly. GOB
considers, however, that a faster rate of implementation may be feasible and
such an eventuality should not be ruled out. Since the siting of JEA houses
would depend upon the location of the individual jute blocks and some of these
would not be established until the fourth year, house construction would con-
tinue into the final and fifth project year.



- 12 -
D. Cost Estimates and FinancinR
3.15      Total project costs are estimated at US$33.3 million equivalent,
including US$3.8 million in duties and taxes with a foreign exchange component
of US$8.6 million or about 26% of total cost. Estimates are based on June
1977 costs. A 10% physical contingency has been allowed for civil works and
5% for transport, extension materials and technical assistance. Price con-
tingencies have been applied for staff pay and allowances at 6% a year; for
civil works at 9% a year from 1977 to 1979 and at 8% a year from 1980 onwards;
and for all other costs at 7.5% a year from 1977 to 1979 and at 7% from 1980
onwards. Total contingencies amount to US$8.6 million or 26% of total costs.
Project costs are summarized below. Detailed costs are given in Annex 9.



- 13 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
----- Tk million ----  ----- US$ million ---        %
I.   Short Term Credit
Production      75.36   50.24  125.60   5.03    3.35   8.38          40
Marketing       30.00     -      30.00   2.00      -      2.00        -
Subtotal    105.36   50.24  155.60   7.03    3.35  10.38           32
11.  Implements
Seed Drills    12.50      -      12.50   0.83      -     0.83         -
Hand Hoes        6.00     -       6.00   0.40      -     0.40
Subtotal      18.50     -      18.50   1.23      -     1.23
III. Extension
Services
Incremental
Staff Sal-
aries and
Allowances   58.55      -      58.55   3.91      -     3.91         -
Buildings and
Office
Equipment    70.55   24.44   94.99   4.70    1.62   6.32           26
Transport       10.83   10.82   21.65   0.72    0.73   1.45          50
Materials and
Equipment      1.46    0.86    2.32   0.10    0.06   0.16          38
Subtotal    141.39   36.12  177.51   9.43    2.41  11.84           20
IV. Marketing
Infrastructure
Marketing
Facilities      7.94    3.07   11.01   0.53    0.20   0.73          27
Subtotal       7.94    3.07   11.01   0.53    0.20   0.73          27
V.   Technical
Assistance
Consultants       -      3.60    3.60    -        0.24   0.24       100
Overseas
Training      0.40    1.62    2.02   0.02    0.11   0.13           85
Monitoring       2.36     -       2.36   0.16      -      0.16        -
Subtotal       2.76    5.22    7.98   0.18    0.35   0.53          66
Base Cost Estimate 275.95   94.65  370.60  18.40    6.31  24.71            26
Physical Contin-
gencies             8.55    3.55   12.10   0.56    0.24   0.80          30
Price Contingencies 85.31   31.32  116.63   5.69    2.08   7.77            27
Total Cost (with
contingencies)   369.81  129.52  499.33  24.65    8.63  33.28           26



- 14 -
3.19      The financing plan would le as follows:
Sonali
GOB      Bank      IDA    Total
Short term credit             -       6.46      7.84   14.30
Implements                   0.40       -       1.08    1.48
Exterision services          4.86       -      10.95   15.81
Marketing Infrastructure   0.56         -       0.48    1.04
Technical Assistance          -        -        0.65    0.65
5.82     6.46    21.00   33.28
The proposed IDA credit of US$21 milLion would finance about 71% of the total
project cost (excluding duties and taxes) and would cover foreign exchange
and about 50% of local costs. To en;ure prompt payment of local costs in-
curred, GOB would establish a revolv:ing fund, the project fund, to be operated
by the Director of Agriculture (Jute'. Assurances have been obtained that
GOB would establish this fund and that it would replenish it periodically to
maintain balances adequate to cover expenditure for the ensuing three months,
witn a minimum of Tk 1 million. Initial payment of Tk 2 million into this
fuind would be a condition of credit Effectiveness.
3.20      GOB's funding for the project depends on the approval by the
National Economic Council (NEC) of the Project Proforma (PP) for the Project.
The ministries involved have now submitted the4r PPs to the Planning Com-
mission; their approval by NEC would be a conditiorn of effectiveness.
E.  Procurement and Disbursez'nts
Procurement
3.21      DAJ would be authorized by 0;B to carry out all project procurement
directly. Seed drills, hand hoes and office furniture to a total of $1.6
million would be of local design and maanufacture and would be purchased after
local competitive bidding using GOB's procedures. These are satisfactory to
IDA. Extension materials, mostly charts, posters, pamphlets, blackboard, etc.
with total cost between US$10,000 to 25,000 would be purchased locally while
fertilizers and pesticides for field t-rials in the same order of value would
be purchased from GOB agencies which are the sole importers. Motor vehicles,
motorcycles, bicyles, baling presses and office equipment to a total of $2.3
million would be purchased over a four-year period and would be widely dis-
persed in rural areas. It would therefore be difficult to ensure adequate
mairntenance and spares for a small nunmber of a variety of imported vehicles
and equipment. They would thus be prccured after competitive bidding adver-
tised locally, in accordance with IDA guidelines; there are in Bangladesh
enough local firmls and representatives of foreign firums to ensure a sufficient
degree of competition and to provide adequate services for maintenance and
spares. Small off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$10,000 each, could
be purchased by prudent shopping through normal commercial channels. Such
purchases would be limited to US$300,000 in total.



- 15 -
3.22      Civil works, though of total estimated cost of US$9.5 million (in
cluding contingencies) would each be small (none exceeding US$20,000 in value),
scattered over a wide area and would be constructed over a five year period.
These works would not be suitable for international competitive bidding and
contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, following procedures acceptable to IDA. DAJ may have to provide some
materials such as cement, iron sheets and timber to contractors and in this
instance procurement would be on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. For all contracts
for goods or civil works exceeding US$100,000 in value, draft tender documents
and bid evaluations would be submitted for IDA review before issue or award.
Assurances have been obtained that GOB would follow procurement procedures
outlined in this and in the preceding paragraph.
Disbursements
3.23      Disbursements would be made for:  (a) 55% of eligible expenditures
for net incremental loan disbursements; (b) pay and allowances for incremental
staff: 55% of total expenditures; (c) construction materials and civil works:
100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures; (d) vehicles and
equipment: 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported goods or 100% of
local expenditures (ex factory costs) for goods manufactured locally, or 70%
of expenditures for goods procured locally; (e) consultants, overseas training
and monitoring: 100% of total expenditures. Disbursement for the credit
component, item (a) and for incremental staff costs, item (b) would be made
against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be
submitted, but would be available for review during project supervision.
Disbursements against all other items would require full documentation.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.24      Sonali Bank, DAJ and the Jute Ministry would be the agencies con-
cerned with project disbursements. They would maintain separate accounts
for the project, which would be audited annually, together with disbursement
documents, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. DAJ would also maintain
accounts for its jute marketing activities which would also be subject to inde-
pendent audit. Certified copies of audited accounts and auditors reports would
be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year. Assurances
have been obtained that the accounting and auditing procedures described above
would be observed.
3.25      Assurances have been obtained that to undertake the audits of the
project accounts, independent auditors satisfactory to IDA would be appointed.
The appointment of commercial auditors satisfactory to IDA for the Sonali
Bank's project accounts will be a condition of effectiveness.



- 16 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Coordination
4.01      DAJ, Sonali Bank, IRDP and the Jute Ministry would be project imple-
menting agencies, while BADC, BJRI and the Directorate of Agriculture (Exten-
sion and Management) would provide supporting services. Activities of the
agencies are listed in Annex 6, AppE,ndix 1 and project organizational stucture
is shown on Charts 2 and 3; WB 1709C and 17337. A national committee would be
established to coordinate the work cf these agencies and to review progress of
the project. Its membership would include the Secretary, Ministry of Agricul-
ture (Chairman) and a representative from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Planning, Ministry of Jute, IRDP, Jute Research Institute, Sonali Bank, and
Bangladesh Jute Association. The Director of Agriculture (Jute) would be
secretary and representatives of other servicing agencies would be coopted as
necessary. The Coordination Committee would meet at least every two months
to review the progress and problems of the project.
4.02      In addition, coordination committees would be established at the
zonal level. These committees would comprise the Assistant Director of
Agriculture (Jute) Chairman, and a representative each of Sonali Bank, BADC,
Directorate of Agriculture (ExtensioTi and Management), JEA, Bangladesh Jute
Association, the Government Jute Corporations and IRDP if participating in the
project in the zone. Where jute marlceting is being tested a representative of
a government jute purchasing corpora:ion would also be a member.  The committee
would meet monthly and send records of its meetings to the national committee.
Assurances would be sought that coordination committees as described would be
established and their establishment waould be a condition of Board presentation.
B. ProjEct Agencies
Directorate of Agriculture (Jute) (DAJU
4.03      The direction and management of IJCS would be the only task of DAJ.
DAJ would be responsible for extension, purchase of implements, transport and
equipment; housing construction; employment and training of staff, provision
of credit to farmers and the pilot marketing scheme. DAJ is now headed by an
Additional Director but a post of Director would be created. This Director,
to be responsible to the Secretary of Agriculture, would be assisted by a
project unit headed by an Additional )irector and comprising supervision,
administrative, technical, and markeing units. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that the Director and the Additional Director have been appointed.
Staff of the project unit would include a building engineer, a project advisor
and a marketing advisor (Chart 4, WB  70'95 and Annex 6, Appendix 3).  Existing
headquarters staff would be able to iritiate procurement and staff recruitment,
but to sustain and accelerate project execution, prompt appointment of a senior
administrative officer, a senior finarce officer and the building engineer



- 17 -
would be necessary.  Assurances have been obtained that these three o. fcers
would be appointed by March 1, 1978 and that all additional headquarter staff
would be appointed by May 1, 1978.
4.04      At full development DAJ would be organized into 20 zones each of about
50,000 acres jute. Each zone would comprise about 25 units of 2,000 acres. In
turn, each unit would be subdivided into about 5 blocks of 400 acres. Farmers
of each block would, as now, be organized into a JFA of about 500 jute farmers.
In 11 thanas covered by IDA and ADB financed rural development projects somewhat
different arrangements would be made, see para 4.12, but the role of DAJ would
be basically similar. Each zone would be administered by an ADA, assisted by a
deputy and two SMSs, each unit by a JEO with an ISO to handle administrative
tasks and, a JEA at each block, would undertake extension and assist farmers
obtain inputs and credit. Existing blocks cover 200 acres jute; expansion to
400 acres would in most cases take place by merging neighboring blocks.
4.05      Extension activities have for some time been successfully organized
on the "Training and Visit" basis with JEA receiving regular biweekly training
and visiting JFA subgroups on a fixed day once every two weeks. The JEAs are
supervised by JEOs who also tour on a fixed schedule. This system would be
continued. However, with the strengthening of general extension services in
the northwest of the project area by the IDA-supported Extension and Research
Project, the eventual merger of the jute extension services with general agri-
cultural extension should be considered. Both projects would have evaluation
components. In addition, the Agricultural and Rural Training Project (Credit
621-BD) includes a study of extension services. This study would be conducted
in the second year of the Extension and Research and Jute Projects and would
examine the means and timing of merging jute extension with general extension,
should this be desirable. Study findings together with evaluation results from
the two projects would provide information for a joint GOB/IDA review of the
future organization of jute extension. Assurances have been obtained that GOB
would carry out the extension program for the project in a manner acceptable
to IDA.
4.06      The Headquarters marketing unit would be responsible for design
and implementation of the trial marketing scheme. With help of field staff,
and in the 11 rural development thanas in consultation with the Integrated
Rural Development Program (IRDP) it would select JFAs to participate in the
scheme. In non-IRDP areas DAJ would employ management and labor to purchase,
store, bale and sell JFA members' jute. DAJ would charge a fee per maund
calculated to recover full operating costs (including amortization of capital
investments), based on a double turnover of the storage capacity.
4.07      In those areas selected for marketing trials which are located in
the 11 IRDP thanas, the thana multipurpose cooperatives, the Thana Central
Cooperative Associations (TCCAs), would have the choice of either letting DAJ
construct and operate the jute stores as in non-IRDP areas or of leasing
stores and presses from DAJ and operating them themselves. It is expected
that this second alternative should eventually establish a pattern for coopera-
tives' involvement in jute marketing.  Rent payable to DAJ under this alterna-
tive would be on a per maund throughput basis and adequate to recover full costs



- 18 -
(amortization, maintenance and insurance) in the event of throughput reaching
double the level of storage capacity. GOB would establish marketing fees and
rental charges, such fees and charges to be reviewed annually and revised as
necessary. Agreement between GOB an<! IDA on these fees and rental charges
would be a condition of disbursing against the marketing credit component.
Input Supply Services
4.08      DAJ with assistance from JEA committees would, before each jute
season, prepare total IJCS requiremerLts for fertilizer, jute seed, pesticides,
and spray pumps. Assurances have been obtained that GOB would cause:
(a) BADC to continue to supply IJCS fertilizer requirements
on a priority basis and in good time for jute sowing;
(b) the Seed Directorate of BJRI to meet IJCS requirements; and
(c) the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
to stock at district and thana level adequate supplies of
pesticides to meet IJCS forecast requirements.
C.  Training
4.09      Regular and special intensive staff training is a key feature of the
training and visit extension system practiced by DAJ. Such training includes
fortnightly one day training for JEAs and ISOs, monthly two day training for
JEOs and longer preseason courses for all field staff. The training program
would be drawn up and coordinated by the training specialist at DAJ Headquarters.
'BJRI would help conduct courses for senior staff, Sonali Bank would assist in
teaching administrat.ve, credit and jute marketing procedures to ISO, and the
Jute Ministry would provide training in jute grading. Assurances have been
obtained that GOB would cause such a program to be carried out.
4.10      Unlike the Village Extension Agents (VEAs) who are diplomates of one
of the Agricultural Training Institutes, most JEAs have no preservice qualifi-
cations. This lack of formal training has not proved to be an impediment to
JEAs performing their duties, due to the adequacy of in-service training.
It has, however, meant that promotional opportunities open to JEAs have been
limited and this would be corrected by sending batches for diploma training
to Agricultural Training Institutes, or at similar institutions. GOB is con-
sidering the most appropriate syllabus for such training and the length of
course needed to qualify JEAs at the same level as VEAs. Such qualification
would facilitate the amalgamation of tae two services, should this be recom-
mended. An assurance has been obtained from GOB that proposals for this
training would be submitted to IDA by M4arch 31, 1978.
4.11      There is lack of experience in Bangladesh with commodity marketing
operations supported by credit and managed by farmers' groups. To provide
such experience, the project would fin<nce short overseas visits for selected
farmers, DAJ staff and bankers. Assurances have been obtained that such
training visits would be subject to IDA approval.



- 19 -
D. Credit Arrangements
4.12      Production and marketing credit would be provided by the Sonali
Bank. In the 11 thanas 1/ now subject to either IDA (Credit 631-BD) or ADB-
supported rural development projects under the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives, the loans would be made to the TCCA/KSS 2/ cooperatives, which
would onlend to their jute growing members. TCCAs are the thana apex soci-
eties and KSS their constituent village primary societies. The KSSs would be
serviced technically by the Directorate of Agriculture (Jute) in the same way
as JFAs in other parts of the country (para 4.04).
4.13      In other thanas Sonali Bank credit would be channeled to DAJ and
then through the JFAs to their individual members. These are the existing
arrangements and they work satisfactorily (para 2.24). JFAs have no legal
standing and given GOB's current intentions of increasingly employing TCCA/
KSS as the medium for farmer credit, it is not considered desirable to pro-
vide them with such standing at this time. These arrangements, however, are
only temporary. Agricultural credit in Bangladesh is now being reviewed by
a team of consultants financed under an IDA Technical Assistance Credit
(622-BD); the review, expected to last about two years, will make recommenda-
tions for improving the existing situation. By September 1980, GOB would
review the effectiveness of the project credit mechanisms under this project -
the TCCA/KSS and JFA systems - with the objective of determining the best
arrangements for supplying jute farmers with credit. Assurances to this
effect have been obtained and any changes made in the credit system within
the project development period would be agreed with IDA.
4.14      TCCA/KSS in the IRDP thanas have membership procedures and
requirements that might exclude some jute farmers. Consequently, IRDP
has agreed to modify for jute farmers two membership requirements for a
two year transitional period in which:
(a) as part of their first production loan, jute farmers
would be permitted to borrow the Tk 10 required to
purchase a share in KSS 3/; and
1/   These so-called 'rural development thanas' are:  Kotwali, Sherpur,
Gabtali, Sariakandi, Muktagacha, Trisal, Gaffargaon, Raiganj, Kazipur,
Serajganj and Ullapara. However, no IJCS program is presently
scheduled in Sherpur thana. In the future, additional thanas may be
covered by similar projects.
2/   Thana Central Cooperative Association/Village Cooperative Society
(Krishi Samabaya Samity).
3/   This requirement amounts to an entrance fee that new members have
to pay.



- 20 -
(b) the amount of jute production loans would not be
restricted to a multiple of ten times the sum of
their shareholdings and amounts in their KSS
savings accounts.
Assurances have been obtained that these membership modifications would be
adopted not later than March 1, 1978. Jute farmers wishing to join KSS
would be required to be clear of nny debts owing to precursor cooperatives
in the IRDP Thanas or, if still in debt to such cooperatives, to have these
debts rescheduled in line with procedures agreed with IDA under the IDA-
supported Rural Development Project (Credit 631-BD).
4.15      Credit requirements of JFA members would be assessed by DAJ staff
and a loan in the amount recommended for all JFAs in a zone would be made by
Sonali Bank to a DAJ account controlled by the ADA for the zone.  For inputs
loans, Sonali Bank would disburse directly to JFA suppliers, such as BADC,
against certified receipts of inputs delivered to JFA; cash loans would be
paid to the farmers by Sonali Bank. The ADA and his staff would maintain the
records of each JFA including the individual accounts of its members. Sonali
Bank would be responsible for collecting repayments from farmers but DAJ as
the primary borrower would be info~-med of any delinquencies or problems, and
its staff would be involved in the follow-up of such cases. In the 'rural
development thanas', credit requirements of KSS would be assessed by the
TCCA/KSS assisted by DAJ staff and credits in cash and kind would be dis-
tributed by the KSS to its members. KSS would maintain on-lending records
and be responsible for the collection of loan repayments. During the two
year transition period, TCCA would verify and endorse loans recommended by
DAJ and Sonali Bank for KSS and following such endorsement Sonali Bank would
deal directly with the KSS.
4.16      Farmers, either as JFA or KSS members, would be eligible for the
following production credit: credit in kind Tk 100 per acre; credit in cash
Tk 150 per acre. Production credit would be repayable within nine months and
at a minimum interest rate of 12 percent per annum. This would involve an
increase over the 10.5 percent now charged to JFA members but would not act
as a disincentive for farmers to ob-ain credit (see farm budgets in Annex 10)
and would be consistent with the GOB objective of standardizing the rate for
agricultural lending at 12 percent. Assurances have been obtained that any
farmer would be excluded from receiving future loans if:
(i) he has defaulted on his previous loans and interest, or;
(ii) he belongs to a JFA or KSE with a recovery rate on
previous loans below 75%.
4.17      The project would include Tk 30 million short term credit for market-
ing. This amount is based on the forecast government minimum farmgate price
and a total storage capacity of 400,000 mds. Marketing credit would be pro-
vided by Sonali Bank to TCCA/KSSs anl to DAJ for purchase of farmers' jute at
the 50 centers involved in the pilot marketing scheme. Credit for this pur-
pose would also bear interest at 12 percent per annum. Rates and lending
terms are listed in Schedule A; assur7ances have been sought that they would
be adopted for the implementation of the project.



- 21 -
E. Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 7)
4.18      The basis of the project monitoring system would be the quarterly
progress reports of JEAs and JEOs; formats for these reports would be prepared
by DAJ. These reports would be reviewed by the zonal or districts coordination
committees and then forwarded to DAJ headquarters which would compile them and
transmit them to GOB and IDA the aggregated version. A draft outline of the
quarterly reporting procedures to IDA is shown in Annex 11. Assurances would
be sought that formats for all these reports would be prepared and sent to IDA
before March 1, 1978.
4.19      Overall project evaluation would be the responsibility of the Plan-
ning Cell of the Ministry of Agriculture. Since it would require varied
expertise, the project evaluation would be contracted to a local research
institute under the supervision of the Planning Cell. Evaluation would entail
data collection by means of three surveys each year, one just before jute
sowing, another during jute harvesting and the third at the end of the market-
ing season. These surveys would evaluate effectiveness of the services to
jute farmers (including quality of the jute seeds and timeliness of their
distribution, and adequacy of plant protection and of pesticides distribution),
progress of project implementation, training program of the extension staff,
and project costs and benefits. Reports resulting from the surveys would be
considered by the project Coordination Committee (para. 4.01) and IDA and, if
necessary would include recommendations for modifications to the project.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Yield and Production
5.01      Surveys carried out on all types of jute land, from lowlands subject
to flooding to well drained uplands soils, indicate present average yields of
14.5 mds of fiber per acre for jute grown under traditional methods and of
fiber 22 mds per acre under the ongoing IJCS, although yields of up to 30 mds
per acre have been achieved. The project is expected to raise average yields
to 25 mds per acre on one million acres. Yield increase would result from use
by participating farmers of improved seed and by their adoption of correct
sowing and harvesting dates; line sowing (resulting in optimum plant popula-
tion and better weed control); correct fertilizer use; and effective plant
protection. As a result annual production on the one million acres subject to
project action should increase from 3.7 million bales at present to 5 million
bales in the sixth year of the project. Such a project induced increase of
1.3 million bales in Bangladesh jute production would amount to 15% of fore-
cast 1985 world exports and, if placed on the world market, could as discussed
below have a depressive impact on world jute prices. Assurances were obtained
that during the project period, GOB would not expand the coverage of IJCS
beyond a million acres unless it establishes that the proposed expansion will
have no adverse impact on the implementation of the project and on the bene-
fits derived from jute production in the country.



- 22 -
World Market Prospects
5.02      With 85% of Bangladesh jute production exported in roughly equal
quantities of fiber and manufactured goods, production levels eventually depend
on the share Bangladesh obtains cf the world market for jute or similar fibers.
Jute is mainly used for packaging, carpet backing, ropes and wall hangings.
Demand, which expanded steadily until the mid 1960's has declined since then,
due to changes in packaging technology and competition from synthetic substi-
tutes. With continuing technology changes and competition from synthetics,
world Jute consumption is projected to grow at 1.4% during the 1970s and at
0.4% between 1980 and 1985. However jute consumption is expected to grow
subtantially only in the producing countries. Consequently some decline in
the international trade in fiber Ls anticipated.
5.03      Short term export prospects for Bangladesh remain reasonably favor-
able but in the longer term the s:ize of the jute market will depend on reliable
supplies, price and the success of research and development efforts to find
new uses for traditional products as well as new uses for jute. Without the
project and the savings it would bring in production costs Bangladesh's share
of the market for the 1980s has been projected by the Bank Economic Analysis
and Export Projection Department (EAPD) at 0.5 million MT fiber and 0.5 mil-
lion MT goods, equivalent to about 5.5 million bales. With about 0.5 million
bales required for domestic use, a total jute production of about 6 million
bales would be needed to meet market demands. At this level of production in
1985 Bangladesh jute exports would be sold at an estimated price of US$344 per
ton (in 1977 constant dollars).
5.04      The project would lower jute production costs by about 23% in finan-
cial terms and by about 31% in econlomic terms (Annex 10, Table 1). Tentative
analysis conducted by the Bank indLcates that by lowering the export price by
10% which would be possible with the lower farm production costs, Bangladesh
may be able to expand exports by up to 20% to about 6.6 million bales or a
total production of about 7 million bales.
Farmers' Benefits
5.05      Benefits from reduced jute production costs estimated at Tk 14 per
maund and from increase in yield from 15 to 25 mds per acre (Annex 10, Table 1)
would make project participation very attractive to farmers. With farmgate
prices over the last three seasons ranging from Tk 60 to Tk 90 per maund (the
1976/77 government announced minimum price), net returns per acre would vary
between Tk 115 to Tk 550 for non IJCS farmers and between Tk 560 and Tk 1,310
for IJCS farmers (Annex 10, Table 2).
5.06      Jute directly competes fo: land with aus paddy since their sowing
and harvesting dates are similar. W4hile the respective acreages of the two
crops depend largely on relative profitability, other factors such as the
need to grow food, land suitability, availability of retting water, risks
and labor requirements, affect farmers' decisions on which crop to plant.
GOB believes that, based on traditional technology for both crops, the jute
acreage remains stable when the farzigate jute price is 1.3 times that of



- 23 -
paddy, which corresponds roughly to the present ratio of the two prices.
Most aus is grown by traditional technology yielding 12 mds paddy per acre
with an estimated net return of Tk 250 at the present GOB floor price for
paddy of Tk 74 per maund. (Annex 10, Table 3). In upland areas improved
technology is spreading under which farmers achieve yields of 20 mds paddy
per acre with net returns of about Tk 700 (Annex 10, Table 4). At current
price levels, traditional jute seems more profitable than traditional paddy
and the same applies for the two crops under improved technology. However,
improved paddy is already competitive with traditional jute. Consequently,
it is unlikely that there would be much diversion from jute to paddy in the
best jute areas where IJCS expansion would be concentrated (see map). How-
ever, in other parts of the project area, particularly the Southwest, where
conditions are favorable for improved paddy and where no IJCS expansion is
planned, some paddy production may take the place of jute.
Pricing
5.07      Regulation of jute supplies, to ensure that production is in line
with market requirements, would be a key requirement for the success of the
project. For this purpose GOB should design an effective jute and paddy
pricing mechanism based on supply and demand information, production and
marketing costs and the interrelationship of jute and paddy prices. An IDA
Foodgrain Price Policy Review Mission has recently examined the requirements
for a foodgrain pricing mechanism. It has recommended establishment of a
high level interdepartmental Food Policy Commission that would advise GOB on
all policy aspects that affect foodgrain production and supplies. Jute price
and production policies affect foodgrain supplies and would have to be covered
by the Commission. The Commission would only be effective if adequate services
were established to monitor and analyze farmgate prices and for collecting crop
production cost and return data. Alternately, GOB may prefer to establish a
separate but equally high level jute policy commission which could commission
and supervise market and cost studies and would advise GOB on domestic and
export prices and market opportunities. Such commission would need to col-
laborate closlyv with the Food Policy Commission.
5.08      Besides having regard to the alternative use of land for paddy
production, pricing policies for jute should be aimed at maintaining export
prices at stable and competitive levels vis-a-vis synthetics while maximizing
long-run economic benefits through achievement of an optimal mix between raw
jute and jute goods exports. The policies should allow for prices to be
flexibly adjusted in response to short-run changes in demand and supply con-
ditions without disrupting the long-term objectives. Further, while the
policy should be aimed at ensuring adequate and stable supplies of raw jute
to mills and for export, it should also provide growers with an adequate
return and jute mills with reasonable raw material costs after taking farm-
to-mill marketing costs into account. Assurances wete obtained from GOB
that a study of the pricing policies and internal marketing of raw jute and
jute goods and a study of world export markets for the same products, would
be initiated by March 1, 1978 under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
This study is now expected to be undertaken under UK bilateral assistance and
will also satisfy the requirements of the proposed Sixth IDA Imports Program
Credit. Based on the findings of this study, assurances were obtained that



- 24 -
by December 31, 1978, GOB would submit to IDA for review, a plan, including
an implementation timetable, for establishing a jute price mechanism.
Budgetary Impact
5.09      The annual operating ancL maintenance cost after completion of the
five year development period woulcL be small - about US$0.77 M, at US$0.77
per farm family. This additional requirement compares with GOB budgetary
allocations in 1976/77 of US$199., M for agricultural development projects
and US$511 M for total current expenditures in the same year.
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Economic Benefits (Annex 12)
6.01      By increasing per acre yields of jute and reducing production costs
of jute fiber, the project would provide Bangladesh with the following alter-
native opportunities:
i.   maintain jute production at present levels and utilize
resources released, mainly land, for other crop production,
mainly paddy;
ii.   use its improved competi-ive position to capture a larger
share of the world marke- for jute and its substitutes,
at lower prices; and
iii.   a combination of (i) and (ii).
6.02      A combination of increased jute exports and a swi-tch of some land
from jute to paddy is most likely to occur in practice. The exact combination
for maximizing returns from the project is so complex to forecast, depending
as it does upon such factors as world prices for paddy and jute and their
substitutes, that its calculation would be subject to very large margins of
error. Further, it is highly unlikely that in practice GOB would be able
to fine tune jute and paddy price relationships so carefully that each year
the optimal mix of crops and thus optimal economic benefits would be obtained
from project investments.
6.03      Economic analysis indicates that if Bangladesh chose to maintain
jute production at current levels, about 6 million bales, and utilized the
about 400,000 acres so released from jute production for growing paddy
(Alternative I) the economic rate of return (ERR) for the project would be
over 50%. The analysis also shows that an ERR of over 50% would be obtained
if jute production rose to 7.0 million bales, the situation that would occur if
the 400,000 acres surplus to those required to generate 6 million bales re-
mained in jute cultivated in the traditional manner (Alternative II), despite
the fact that exports would have to be made at world prices some 10% lower
than under the first alternative (see para 5.04). These relatively high



- 25 -
rates of return are typical of this type of project where relatively low in-
vestments in extension and other farmer support services are employed to bring
about substantial improvements in the efficiency of utilization of existing
resources.
6.04      The economic rate of return is sensitive to the level of jute
prices. For instance, under Alternative II - where a higher level of jute
export causes a lower export price - the ERR is lower than under Alternative I
(but still over 50%). This indicates that, if jute were to be grown on a large
acreage (above 1.7 million acres of Alternative II), the resulting increase in
production may well be more than offset by the decrease in export prices and
the ERR could fall below acceptable levels. The world market price could
also, for exogenous reasons, be lower than presently forecast. If the world
price for jute declined by 15% in the case of Alternative I the ERR would
remain at over 50% while a similar price decline in the case of Alternative
II, would result in a fall in the ERR to 20%. Provided GOB establishes and
operates efficiently the intelligence and price fixing mechanisms described in
paras 5.07 and 5.08 the risk of over-production would be small and justified
given the project's large potential benefits.
6.05      Another risk is that, because of continuing fluctuations of the
jute/paddy price ratio, farmers would keep switching from one crop to the
other (para 5.06). Here also, this risk will be minimized if the price
fixing mechanism referred to in the paragraph above works efficiently. In
addition, in the IJCS areas, where farmers get a better return on their
jute production than in non-IJCS areas, a higher paddy price would be re-
quired to entice them to switch to paddy. To this extent, the geographical
expansion of IJCS should lessen the propensity of farmers to switch from
jute to paddy. This would cause a dampening of the fluctuations of the
jute (and the paddy) area, which in turn should cause a lessening of fluc-
tuations in production and price.
6.06      The project would benefit about one million farm families, or about
six million people.  Practically all of the beneficiaries would b1 small
farmers, with farms of less than two acres. About 100,000 families would
also benefit from higher prices and secure sales outlets for part oi their
jute which would result from the trial marketing scheme.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOB on the follow-
ing principal points:
(a)  The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
would make available under terms suitable to IDA adequale
numbers of sprayers of design and in condition satisvas M
to the Director of Agriculture (Jute) (para 3.05);
(b)  The Government would make sufficient budget provision :rr
payment of adequate travel and daily allowances for cn:.ion
staff (para 3.06);



- 26 -
(c) The Government would prov:ide adequate funds for maintaining
project buildings (para 3.07);
(d)  A consulting firm, with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA would be appointed
to assist DAJ in the preparation and supervision of the
building component before April 1, 1978 (para 3.07);
(e)  Bicycles and motorcycles would be made available to the
staff of the Ministry of Agriculture under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.08);
(f) The following consultants would be appointed promptly on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
(i) Project Management Advisor by April 1, 1978; and
(ii) Marketing Specialist by July 1, 1978 (para 3.14).
(g) By March 1, 1978 a program (including time schedule) for
project evaluation would be submitted to IDA for approval
and an organization with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA would be recruited
(para 3.15);
(h) The Government would establish the Project revolving fund
with Tk 2 million initial contribution and would replenish
it periodically to maintaia balances adequate to cover
expenditures for ensuing tiree months, with a minimum of
Tk 1 million (para 3.19);
(i) The Government would observe specified procurement
procedures (para 3.22);
(j) The Government would observe specified accounting and
auditing procedures (para 3.24);
(k)  The Government would appoint independent auditors satis-
factory to IDA for the project (para 3.25);
(1) The Government would establish specified coordination
committees (para 4.02);
(m) A senior administrative ofificer, a senior finance officer, and
a building engineer would be appointed in DAJ headquarters by
March 1, 1978 and additionel headquarter staff would be
appointed by May 1, 1978 (para 4.03);
(n) The Government would carry out the extension program in
a manner acceptable to IDA (para 4.05);



- 27 -
(o) The Government would instruct:
(i) BADC to continue to supply IJCS fertilizer
requirements on a priority basis;
(ii) the Seed Directorate of BJRI to meet IJCS seed
requirements; and
(iii) the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and
Management) to stock adequate supplies of pesticides
and sprayers (para 4.08);
(p) The Government would carry out an inservice training
program for JEOs, ISOs and JEAs (para 4.09);
(q) By March 31, 1978, the proposals for the training for
JEAs at Agricultural Institutes, or at similar institu-
tions, would be submitted to IDA (para 4.10);
(r) Overseas training proposals would be subject to IDA
approval (para 4.11);
(s) The Government would conduct a review of project credit
operations by September 1, 1980 and would agree with IDA
any change in the IJCS credit system during the project
development (para 4.13);
(t) TCCA/KSS membership modifications for jute farmers would
be adopted by Maich 1, 1978 (para 4.14);
(u) A farmer would be excluded from future loans:
(i) if he has defaulted on his previous loans and
interest; or
(ii)  if he belongs to a JFA or KSS with a recovery rate
on previous loans below 75% (para 4.16).
(v) It would adopt credit interest rates and lending terms,
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.17);
(w) Formats for monitoring the various components of the project
would be prepared and sent to IDA before March 1, 1978
(para 4.18);
(x) The coverage of IJCS would not be expanded beyond one million
acres unless the Government establishes that the proposed ex-
pansion will have no adverse impact on the implementation of
the project and on the benefits derived from jute production
(para 5.01);



- 28 -
(y)  A study of the pricing policies and internal marketing of,
and world market possibilities for, raw jute and jute goods
would be initiated by March 1, 1978, (para 5.08); and
(z)  By December 31, 1978, GOB would submit to IDA for review, a
plan, including an implementation timetable, for establishing
a jute price mechanism (para 5.08).
7.02      GOB has met the following condition for presenting this project
to IDA's Board of Executive Directors:
The Project Proformas havE been submitted to the Planning
Commission by the ministries concerned (para 3.20).
7.03      The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)  The execution of a Project Agreement between IDA and
Sonali Bank had been ratified by GOB (para 3.03);
(b)  GOB had signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to
IDA, with Sonali Bank (para 3.03);
(c)  A Project revolving fund had been established and had
received on initial payment of Tk 1 million (para 3.19);
(d)  The Project Proformas had been approved by GOB (para 3.20);
(e)  Independent auditors satisfactory to IDA had been appointed
for auditing the accounts of Sonali Bank (para 3.25);
(f)  Coordination committees have been established at the national
and zonal level (para 4.02'; and
(g)  The Director and the Additional Director of Agriculture
of DAJ have been appointed to the Project Unit (para 4.03).
7.04      It would be a condition of disbursement of the marketing credit
component, that marketing and rental fees acceptable to GOB and IDA had been
agreed to (para 4.07).
7.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$21 million on standard IDA terms.
The borrower would be the Government of Bangladesh.



SCHEDULE A
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Prolect Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used in imple-
menting the project and would not be altered without prior IDA agreement:
Interest   Margin      Use of Margin
(M)       (%)
(1) Onlending of IDA Funds
GOB/Bank of Bangladesh to
Sonali Bank.                          3.00      3.00       0.75 to cover IDA
service charge and
2.25 as contribu-
tion    Guarantee
Fund -
(2) Onlending by Sonali Bank (SB)
of Blend of On-lent IDA and
Own Funds
a.   To lute trowers throuh
Department of Jute (DAJ)                      2'
SB to DAJ                      10.50      5.70--    'To return 9% on SB
funds employed and
3.00% on on-lent
IDA funds
4.80       Cost of special
SB field service
10.50
DAJ to Farmers                 12.00      1.50        Collection commis-
sion
12.00



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
b.   To jute growers through
TCCA/KSS
SB to TCCA                    7.50       5.70        To return 9% on
SB funds employed
and 3.00% on
on-lent IDA funds
1.80       Costs of special
SB field services
7.50
TCCA to KSS                   9.50       2.00 -      TCCA service charge
9.50
KSS to Farmers               12.00       1.00        KSS service charge
1.50       Collection commis-
sion
12.00
(3) Other Lending Terms and Conditicns
(a) Repayment period for production loans not to exceed 12
months and for marketing loans not to exceed 9 months;
(b)  A farmer would only qualify for a production or marketing
loan if:
(i)  He is a member of a JFA or KSS acceptable to GOB;
(ii) He is not in default on previous production or marketing
loans;
(c)  No loans would be made by TCCAs to any KSS in which mem-
bers' defaults in the payment of principal and interest
required under loans, for jute production and marketing
in the preceding three years, represent more than 25%
of the aggregate amounts of the principal and inte-
rest.
(d)  No loans would be made to farmers belonging to JFAs in
which members' defaults in t:he payment of principal and
interest required under loans for jute production and
marketing in the preceding t:hree years, represent more
than 25% of the aggregate amounts of the principal
and interest.



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
(e) Loan ceiling for production loans to be Tk 250 per acre based
on Tk 100 for inputs and Tk 150 for hired labor. A marketing
loan would be equal to the Government's minimum farmgate price
for jute multiplied by the quantity of jute delivered by the
farmer receiving the loan.
1/   Rural credit arrangements in Bangladesh are currently under study by
consultants (financed under IDA Technical Assistance Credit 622-BD) and
many elements of the system are ad hoc in nature and will remain so
until study is complete. Such is the case of the Guarantee Fund which
was established in 1974 to provide a cushion against overdues in the
agricultural credit sector. Operational rules for the fund have not
been established and currently its funds are used by the Bangladesh
Bank for the refinancing of agricultural credit institutions.
2/   Derived as shown below:
Cost of Funds to Sonali Bank
Credit Amount  Interest/Charges    Total Cost
(US$ million)         (%)          (US$ million)
(a) IDA Funds      7.84              3.00              0.235
(b) Own Funds      6.46              9.00              0.581
(c) Total         14.30              5.70              0.816
The cost for Sonali Bank of its own funds (9.00%) is equivalent to the
Bangladesh Bank rate plus 1%e  This cost of 9% would be to cover interest
paid by Sonali Bank on deposits (plus cost of attracting and administering
deposit accounts), or on borrowing from Bangladesh Bank, and to provide
normal margin of profit.
3/   In previous projects involving TCCA and financed by IDA a 2.50%
service charge has been built into the interest rate structure. In
this project, due to the services provided by DAJ to the TCCA/KSS
and the more direct lending route of SB to TCCA/KSS, a reduction in
the provision to 2.00% is considered justified.






ANNEX I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Jute Production
Introduction
1.        Jute has been grown for centuries in Bangladesh and has long been
used as a fiber by villagers. The first introduction into world trade was
from Bengal by the East India Company at the end of the 18th Century. Exten-
sive production and manufacture started in the mid-19th century and, in terms
of volume has become the second most important natural fiber in the world,
after cotton. The fiber is used for packaging materials, carpet backing,
furnishings, upholstery, tarpaulins and rope. Jute stalks the byproduct,
after the bark (which contains the fiber) has been stripped, is an important
source of fuel and fencing material in the rural areas.
2.        Jute is the most important cash crop in Bangladesh and in the grow-
ing season covers about 20% of the total cropped area and about 30% of the
cropped area in the main jute growing districts. Jute fiber and jute goods
exports provide about 80% of Bangladesh's foreign exchange and the fiber is
the raw material for the most important industry in the country.
Varieties
3.        There are two varieties of jute, white or Capsularis jute (Corchorus
clapsularis) and tossa or Olitorius jute (C. olitorius). Of these Capsularis
constitutes about two-thirds of the total crop. It resists waterlogging and
even flooding in the later stages of growth and is consequently sown on low
land. Olitorius on the other hand does not tolerate waterlogging and is
therefore grown on higher ground.
4.        Recommended strains developed by the jute research services are
D-154 and C-6 for Capsularis and 0-4 for Olitorius. These varieties were
developed pre World War II but some improvement by selection has been achieved
subsequently. Increasing jute fiber yields is technically difficult partic-
ularly because of the small amount of genetic material available. A further
constraint in Bangladesh is the lack of access to jute strains developed else-
where. While improved material is being tested the chance of a breakthrough
to much higher yielding strains (as happened for paddy and wheat) is unlikely
in the near future.
Climate and Soil
5.        Both climate and soils are ideal for jute production in the Ganges -
Brahmaputra delta of the Indian subcontinent. About 90% of the world jute



ANNEX 1
Page 2
supply is grown there despite many attempts to grow jute elsewhere. 1/ The
crop will thrive on a range of soils from friable clay to sandy loam. Soil
type is mainly determined by its suitability for forming a fine seedbed needed
for the small seed of the crop.
6.        In most years, climatic conditions in Bangladesh are ideal for jute
production. Temperatures range Erom 70 F to 95 F with high humidities (about
90%) in the latter stages of the crop. Jute needs about 35-40 inches of rain.
As usually happens in Bangladesh, early rains should be light because both
jute varieties are sensitive to waterlogging when small.  Rain showers should
be interspersed with hot dry periods to allow weeding. The bulk of rainfall
should fall when the crop is more mature. Heavy rains and consequent flooding
provide widely distributed water needed for retting. Because of its climate
and fertile alluvial soil, Banglidesh has a comparative advantage over other
jute producing countries with respect to yield and fiber quality.
Cultivation
7.        Sowing Capsularis takes place with early showers from mid March to
early April. Olitorius needs longer daylight hours and if sown too early
branches and flowers prematurely. It is thus sown from mid April to mid May.
Traditionally, seed is broadcast sown and only farm yard manure is applied
before sowing. Research has shown yield increase from use of fertilizers
and from line sowing. The latter practice also reduces the seed rate, weeding
costs and facilitates plant protection. Fertilizer use has been limited
because of shortages except for participants of the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme (IJCS) (Annex 2) and adoption of line sowing is constrained by lack of
satisfactory drills and the need to complete sowing in a very short period
while soil moisture is at the right stage.
8.        Two to three timely weedings are a prerequisite for good yields.
Because aus paddy requires weeding at the same time there is considerable
competition for hired labor during this season. Line sowing allows use of
a wheeled hand push hoe which almost halves weeding costs. Jute is subject to
a number of pests and diseases but only farmers participating under IJCS take
protective measures such as seed dressing and spraying against leaf eating
pests and mites.
9.        Jute is ready for harvesting when seed capsules start forming and
for Capsularis this takes place during July and for Olitorius during August
and September. There is a trade off between yield and fiber quality, early
harvest producing low yields of high quality fiber and vice versa. The
need for sowing a paddy crop after jute may, to some extent, determine the
harvesting date.
1/   In recent years large scale jute production is believed to be taking
place in China.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       Harvesting and subsequent retting are labor intensive operations
which need to be performed over a short period and which coincide with the
main paddy transplanting season of the year. Consequently, as with weeding,
much of the harvest and post harvest operations are done by hired labor.
Retting is critical to fiber quality and availability of clean retting water
determines fiber quality in any locality.
Improved Technology
11.       Recommendations developed by the Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
(BJRI) more than a decade ago can double jute fiber yields, from 3 to 6 bales
per acre. These recommendations form the basis for IJCS (Annex 2) and comprise
the following items:
(a) Improved seed and use of recommended varieties;
(b) Seed dressing to prevent plant diseases;
(c) Line sowing;
(d)  Correct fertilizer use 1/;
(e) Correct sowing times;
(f) Plant protection - (mainly against semi looper, hairy
caterpillars and jute mites); and
(g) Correct harvesting dates.
.12.       Research (Annex 3) has not been able to announce any further notable
advances in the last few years. Some subjects which deserve early attention
are adjustment of fertilizer dose according to soil type, improved pest
control, particularly to control recent increase in mite, population and the
more elusive target of variety improvement.
13.       Jute is sown at the same time as the aus paddy crop and is to
some extent interchangeable with it (para 15). Except where land is too
deeply flooded, Capsularis is followed by transplanted aman, the main paddy
crop of Bangladesh. Since jute harvesting is more flexible than paddy,
Capsularis has some advantage over the competing aus crop with respect to
ensuring timely transplanted aman crop. Olitorius harvest on the other hand
is usually too late to be followed by a paddy crop and it is succeeded by
pulses, oilseeds and wheat. When paddy prices are high, Olitorius grown on
high lands is more likely to be replaced by paddy and consequently the project
would give highest priority to Capsularis areas.
1/   Present recommendations for the all country is:  Urea - 45 seers,
triple super phosphate - 11 seers and muriate of potash - 16 seers.
However, an applied research program is proposed (Annex 3, Appendix
3) to test the validity of this recommendation and, if necessary,
to modify it.



ANNEX I
Page 4
Production Areas
14.       Jute areas are grouped into three regions:  the Jat (east of the
Jamuna River and north of Noakhali district), Northern (mostly north of the
Ganges and west of the Jamuna) and District (mostly south of the Ganges and
west of the Meghna) (See map IBRD 12761). The heaviest jute producing dis-
tricts are Mymensingh (Jat), Rangpur (Northern) and Faridpur (District).
Because of better soil and plentiful retting water, jute in the Jat area gives
higher yields and has higher quaLity than from the other areas. The project
would concentrate on expanding imaproved jute cultivation in the Jat areas and
in Rangpur and Faridpur districts in the other areas which together contain
about three fourths of the total jute acreage. Because of a higher proportion
of seasonally flooded and water logged land, about 80% of the jute in the Jat
and Northern areas is Capsularis5, whereas it comprises only 40% of the total in
the District with a higher proportion of well drained soils (Table 1). In
parts of the Northern and District areas retting water is scarce and this
factor depresses fiber quality. In addition, the Northern area lacks storage
and baling facilities and is remote from the jute manufacturing and fiber
exporting centers, so that jute farmers there have greater difficulties with
Jute marketing than in other areas. The pilot marketing component of the
project would therefore pay particular attention to this area.
15.       The total area sown to jute varies from year to year.  For instance,
in 1972/73 the area was reported to be as high as 2.2 million acres jute and
as low as 1.3 million acres in 1975/76. However, part of the jute area is
sown to jute every year. Of this, about 0.5 million acres is "Char" land
(low land near river banks) where there is little alternative to jute produc-
tion. About 0.5-0.8 million acres jute are sown every year as part of the
crop rotation practiced by farmers who report that jute improves yields of
subsequence rice crops. Additional jute acreage would compete directly with
aus paddy for use of cultivated land. This competition is highly responsive
to relative profitability of aus rice or jute cultivation. The project area,
particularly the districts in which IJCS would be expanded includes most areas
on which jute is grown every year.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Area Sown to Jute by District
and Areas 1970/71 and 1972/73 to 1975/76
(in thousand acres)
1970/71            1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76
Capsularis  Olitorius  Total   Total    Total    Total    Total
JAT AREA
Dacca                 149            42       191      184       165       124        94
Mymensingh            378            64       442      489       318       312       317
Tangail               100            21       121     132        111       101        74
Comilla               118            20       138     155        128        81        72
Area Total            745          147        892      960       785       618       557
NORTHERN AREA
Bogra                  34            23        57       45        51        16        33
Rangpur               336            38       374      379       346       249       273
Dinajpur              103             6       109       77        93        73        66
Rajshahi               26           43         69       73        77        43        41
Area Total            499          110        609     547        567       381       413
DISTRICT AREA
Noakhali               29             1        30       21        17        12        11
Sylhet                 28             0.3      28.3    21         16        15        13
Chittagong              0.6           0.2       0.8      1         1         1         1
Bakerganj              20            10        30       33        30        19         9
Khulna                 14            28        42       33        35        28        15
Jessore                20          146        166     147       159        106        68
Faridpur               93          144        237     239        217      155        113
Pabna                  56            32        88       93        67        36        46
Patuakhali              1             1         2        1         1         1         1
Kushtia                 3            72        75       91        83        44        31
Area Total            205          433        698     680        626      417        308
GRAND TOTAL          1509          691      2200     2214      1978      1416      1278
March 25, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        Based on recommendations from the Jute Research Institute for
improving yields, the then Pakistan Jute Association, now the Bangladesh Jute
Association (BJA) (an Association of jute traders and exporters) in 1967
launched an intensive jute cultivation pilot scheme. The Association with some
financial assistance from the Government continued the scheme for five years,
expanding slowly from 65 acres in 1967 to 1,067 acres in 1970 and to 7,600
acres in 1971. The scheme provided extension and inputs and succeeded in
doubling jute yields from 15 mds/acre to 30 mds/acre. However, it was very
expensive -- BJA in 1971 estimated the cost of the scheme at Tk 10,000 per
100 acre unit and in 1972 GOB took over the scheme.
2.        GOB's objectives remained the same, but its plan was to expand the
scheme rapidly, for instance to cover 250,000 acres in the first year. For
this purpose a special section was established in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Extension agents were selected among farmers who were paid a special stipend.
One agent was provided per 100 acre jute. They were supervised by Jute Exten-
sion Officers who looked after one to two thanas. These officers were respon-
sible to an Assistant Director of Agriculture (Jute) at district level who
reported to the Officer on Special Duty (Jute) in the Ministry of Agriculture
in Dacca. These first attempts at large scale expansion of the Intensive Jute
Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) were not successful. On the whole, staff training
was inadequate and the organization of inputs and credit supplies to farmers
did not function effectively. The use of "model farmers" as extension agents
was not satisfactory. However, the feasibility of the scheme to increase
yields and to reduce production costs had been proved and encouraged GOB to
persist in its efforts to extend improved jute cultivation on a large scale.
B. INTENSIVE JUTE CULTIVATION SCHEME
Objectives
4.        IJCS started to work effectively from the 1973/74 season.  The
objectives were to double yields, reduce production costs and to improve fiber
marketing. The main strategies used were:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(a) To concentrate on about 1.7 million acres land judged to be
ideal jute land for the production of 8 million bales jute;
(b) To organise an adequate and timely supply of credit, implements
and inputs to farmers;
(c) To provide effective extension; and
(d) To organize jute marketing through Government controlled
corporations.
Organization
5.        The Directorate of Agriculture (Jute) (DAJ) was established to imple-
ment IJCS. It was headed by an Additional Director of Agriculture reporting
directly to the Secretary of Agriculture. At the field level IJCS was
organized into zones of about 30,000 acres jute, units of 2,000 acres jute
and blocks of 200 acres jute. Each zone was headed by an Assistant Director
of Agriculture (ADA), each unit by a Jute Extension Officer (JEO) equal in
rank to a Subidivision Agricultural Officer of the general extension service,
and each block was serviced by a Jute Extension Assistant (JEA). Each block
had about 200-300 jute growers, thus a unit would deal with 2,000-3,000
farmers and a zone with 30,000-45,000. Zones, units and blocks in many
cases did not coincide with district, subdivision or thana boundaries, and
several zones extended across district boundaries.
Jute Farmers Associations
6.        Early in its operations DAJ realized the need for farmer grouping
to allow effective provision of extension, credit and inputs. Authorized
by the Ministry of Agriculture in 1974, DAJ started to establish Jute Farmers
Associations (JFA). Membership is voluntary but IJCS deals exclusively with
JFA members. Each Association coincides with a jute block and on average has
200-300 members. JFA have no legal status which would enable them to borrow
or to trade.
7.        The objectives of JFA are:
(a)  To plan the jute production of members;
(b) To provide the basis for effective extension, inputs and
credit services and to use group action to encourage
prompt credit repayment;
(c) To foster cooperation in jute production;.
(d) To undertake jute marketing;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(e) To develop local leadership; and
(f) To uplift social and economic conditions generally.
8.        Only one member of a jute growing family may belong to an Associa-
tion. Each Association has an executive committee of a president, vice pres-
ident and five members elected by members. To date there are no membership
fees. JFA have unit, zonal and a national committees which coincide with
DAJ's organization pattern. The unit committee consists of one member of each
block, the zonal committee of one member of each unit in its jurisdiction and
the National Committee consists of one member of each zone. These committees
are discussion groups where jute ifarmers from different areas can exchange
their experiences, and serve as a link between farmers and the Ministry of
Agriculture at all levels.
Extension
9.        The extension service of IJCS have proved the most effective of such
services in Bangladesh to date. Ihe elements believed to have led to its
success are:
(a) High density of extension workers and close supervision;
(b) Definition of area to be covered by each worker;
(c) Definition of task to be performed by each worker;
(d) Constant training;
(e)  Direct contact with farmers;
(f)  Effective linkage of credit and inputs supplies with
extension; 1/ and
(g) Participation of farmers in planning and executing the
production program through JFA.
10.       At the beginning of 1976, field staff included 9 ADAs, 230 JEOs and
1,500 JEAs. ADAs were all transferred and mostly promoted from the general
extension service. JEOs on the other hand were largely newly recruited agri-
cultural graduates. JEAs are practically all newly recruited. Their quali-
fication is a pass in the Higher School Certificate (12 years schooling)
though a few School Certificate holders (10 years schooling) may also have
been appointed. JEAs had no preservice agricultural qualifications and since
joining IJCS have had constant in service training. This is twofold - longer
courses - such as two to three weeks induction training and annually two to
three weeks pre service training and in addition one day training regularly
every two weeks on the subject to be taught to farmers in the succeeding two
weeks.
1/   See Annex 4.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       The extension system adopted is on the lines of the "Training and
Visit" system which is proving successful in several IDA assisted projects in
other countries. JEAs live at the block. Farmers of the block are divided
into eight groups and the JEAs visits each group on the same day once every
two weeks and spends the whole day with the group, teaching the farmers as a
group and then visiting them individually. All farmers are members of the
block's JFA and one of the conditions of membership is to attend every biweekly
training meeting held by the JEA. Each group has a contact farmer but unlike
other T and V systems he is not expected to undertake extension functions, but
is mainly responsible for his group's attendance at training days and to help
the JEA prepare jute cultivation plans and to work out inputs and credit re-
quirements. One day in every two weeks, all JEAs in a unit are given training
by the JEO (para. 61). On the remaining three working days out of twelve in
each two week period the JEA pays additional farm visits and maintains block
records.
12.       The JEO is considered the key person to the success of IJCS.  His
duties apart from administering the Unit and ensuring the timely and regular
supply of credit, inputs and implements, are to back up the JEA by frequent
and regular visits to blocks. He deals with about 2,000-3,000 farmers and is
expected to become personally acquainted with most of them. It is largely
due to the ability and enthusiasm of JEO, that despite lack of preservice
training, JEA have performed well. The Bangladesh Ministry of Agriculture
also considers that frequent personal contact of JEOs with farmers is a pre-
requisite to the success of IJCS and that the staffing rate of I JEO per
2,000-3,000 farmers should not be decreased. Zonal officers, because of lack
of transport have performed mainly administrative functions. As a consequence
of the success of IJCS (paragraph 23) morale of its staff is high and it
enjoys jute farmers' confidence. This is in marked contrast to the situation
at the start of the scheme when few farmers had had contact with agricultural
extension staff and farmers in general lacked confidence in such staff.
Implements
13.       Three implements not normally owned by farmers are important for
improving jute yields. These are seed drills for line sowing, hand hoes (a
wheeled hoe pushed manually) for speeding up and reducing cost of weeding and
pesticide sprayers for plant protection. Hand hoes are used in conjunction
with seed drills. DAJ estimates that one drill is needed for 25 acres jute
and I hoe to 20 acres. About 7,000 drills and 4,600 hoes have been purchased
to date. Both drills and hoes have been distributed to blocks. They are DAJ
property and are provided free of charge to farmers.
14.       Until July 1976 pesticide sprayers were lent to farmers free of
charge by the Plant Protection Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture
(the Plant Protection Directorate has now been merged with the Directorate
of Agriculture (Extension and Management) also of the Ministry of Agriculture
- see para. 18). DAJ staff were responsible to ensure that enough sprayers
were lent to JFA. Now the Ministry has stopped lending sprayers and expects
farmers to buy them, at about half price. A few jute farmers have done so.
The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) has a stock of
120,000 hand sprayers in good condition which are available for sale to
farmers at district or thana centers.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Credit and Inputs
15.       IJCS credit and fertilizer supply systems have worked well and are
described in Annex 4 and the main text. Seed and pesticide supplies have not
been so satisfactory and are described below.
Seeds
16.       Seed production is the responsibility of the Directorate of Seed
of the Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI). The entire production
is reserved for IJCS. So far, seed production has not met the demands of
IJCS but a project financed by the Asian Development Bank is strengthening
and expanding jute seed production. When complete, in two to three years
time, seed production should be more than adequate. While not yet able to
meet its target of supplying new seed to every acre of jute at least once
every three years, each participating block has had some improved seed
annually and farmers have grown their own seed from the improved stock. All
jute in the block is therefore grown from improved seed. Seed quality used to
be very variable but as a result of monitoring by IJCS the Seed Directorate
has been able to improve quality which is now satisfactory.
17.       The Seeds Directorate grows, tests and packs the seed and dispatches
it to district or thana level according to DAJ instructions. JEAS sell it
to farmers, taking JFA advice into account. The Seed Directorate estimates
cost of seed at Tk 300 per maund for Capsularis and Tk 400 per maund for
Olitorius against which growers pay Tk 120 per maund. Since the value of this
seed is now fully recognized by all jute farmers, there is some leakage onto a
black market. This is not serious however and should be overcome when seed
production expands. Until 1976 DAJ was reasonably satisfied with the seeds
supply but in that season deliveries fell seriously short of orders. Since
improved seed is a key component of the IJCS package, the Ministry of Agricul-
ture now feels that seed production should come under its own control. The
implementation of the Asian Developmtent Bank seeds project complicates this
issue and the transfer proposal which was made after project appraisal, needs
further careful consideration. The 1976 supply shortfall may have been due
more to unfavorable harvesting weathLer than to organizational failings and
such shortfalls are likely to continue until processing equipment, to be
supplied by the Asian Development Bank Project has been installed.
Pesticides
18.       Pesticide distribution and extension in plant protection is the
responsibility of the Plant Protection Directorate (PPD). GOB has now
amalgamated PPD with the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Man-
agement) - DEM (however the actual merger of staff is reportedly not com-
plete yet) DEM, which is in charge of general extension service throughout
the country, is also being reorganized to better utilize the Training and
Visit system. 1/ UNDP is providing assistance to PPD to improve the training
1/   This reorganization will be supported in the North-West of the
country by the IDA Extension and Research Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
of its staff. Finally, GOB is considering handling over to the private sector
the pesticide trade. When this happens, PPD staff (and, after amalgamation is
complete, DEM) staff will have more time to devote to extension in plant pro-
tection. Following these changes, plant protection services will presumably
improve. In the meantime, it is proposed that IJCS extension services guide
farmers in what material to purchase and how to use them.
19.       At appraisal, the Plant Protection Directorate had more than one
year's supply of pesticides in stock including all materials used for jute.
Prices paid by farmers are about half of the cost of materials.
Targets and Achievements
20.       The original target called for coverage of 0.3 million acres jute
by IJCS in 1973/74 to expand to 0.9 million acres by 1975/76 and 1.7 million
acres by 1977/78. However, the scheme was only approved by the National
Economic Council in mid 1976. Prior to that date funding had to be found
from savings in GOB's annual budgets and was not adequate for expanding
beyond 0.3 million acres. At times funds, for instance for the credit com-
ponent of the scheme, were authorized too late to allow full utilization.
Nevertheless the scheme gave staff experience, established operating proce-
dures for providing extension, credit and inputs. Some key indicators of
progress achieved are shown in Table 1.
21.       In view of the importance of the jute crop GOB paid special atten-
tion to IJCS and arranged annual high level evaluation by a committee which
included representatives of the Planning Commission, Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Jute, Parliament and the Jute Research Institute. The resultant
reports pointed out marLy procedural shortcomings, principally late allocation
of funds, lack of transport for DAJ staff and problems with seed drills.
Based on its own small crop cutting program and DAJ's crop cutting records the
committee found that IJCS farmers had increased jute yields. The committee
also found that JFA were playinrg a key role in the scheme and recommended
that they should be given the legal status to borrow and trade. However
there had been no progress in improving jute marketing. The government cor-
porations had not been able to purchase JFA fiber directly and farmers had
had to sell to middlemen as in the past. The 1976 evaluation committee
recommended provision of fiber storage and marketing credit for JFA.
22.       To supplement GOB's evaluation DAJ in April/May 1976, with tech-
nical support from the World Bank Resident mission in Dacca conducted an
evaluation survey. The sample consisted of 266 IJCS farmers and of 249
non IJCS farmers, spread over five major jute growing districts. Table 2
shows classification of surveyed farmers by land holding size and Table 3
summarizes the main data collected during the survey.
23.       Over 90% of farmers in the sample owned 3 acres land or less and
about one third of these rented about I acre of land to supplement their
own land. The IJCS sample shows rather less very small farmers (owning



ANNEX 2
Page 7
less than 1 acre land) than the non IJCS sample. The survey shows the high
percentage of IJCS farmers who adopted improved practices including line
sowing, fertilizer and pesticide use resulting in a 50% yield increase, from
2.9 bales per acre to 4.4 bales per acre. Farm budgets calculated on the
basis of survey data (Annex 10, Tables 1 and 2) show the following production
costs and returns
non
IJcs             IJcs
-------- Tk ---___
production cost per bale       310               250
net return per acre /a         330                765
/a   Taking fiber price at Tk 75/md.
24.       These survey results confirm that IJCS methods have been successful
and provide a sound argument for supporting and expanding the scheme. Loca-
tion of existing IJCS areas and of expansion areas are shown on Table 4.
Shortcomings of IJCS
25.       A list of shortcomings of IJCS to date includes lack of:  transport
for staff; housing particularly for JEA; subject matter specialists for staff
training and for conducting field trials; a field plot demonstration program;
and materials and equipment for extension and demonstration work. Another
handicap in implementing the scheme has been the amount of time field staff
have had to spend on administrative duties connected with supply of implements,
inputs and credit. The use of administrative staff for this purpose tried in
a few locations during the 1975/76 season improved extension work considerably.
The project would help to eliminate these shortcomings.



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
IJCS Activities 1973/74-1975/76
----1973/74                     1974/75    --   -----1975/76--------
Target   Achievement    Target  Achievement   Target   Achievement
Area under IJCS (acres)                300,000       270,000    300,000    280,000    300,000          290,000
Improved Seeds Distribution (MDS)       16,000        12,400       7,000       6,800      10,300        10,300
Fertilizer Distribution (NDS)          300,000       235,000    300,000    254,000    300,000          298,000
Credit Operation (Tk '000)                     1/            2/
a. Taccavi                               3,832-          822-       -   I/      -   2/      -   1/             3/
b. Sonali Bank                                 1-   2/    3,764-               3,555-      4,672-              3
c. B.K.B.                                3,305-        1,832-      3,000/-   2,4392/    3,7621                -
Seed Drills  Supplied - Number            -            2,772        -          4,000        -
Hand Hoes Supplied - Number               -            2,545        -          2,100        -              -
Line Sowing (acres)                    150,000        29,000    150,000       38,000    150,000         56,000
3/
Yield (Bales/acre)                         -           4.4          -          4.8          _
1/ Amount lent to farmers.
2/ Loan repaytient made by farmers.
3/ Results not known yet.                                                                                    t z
April 14, 1977



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
IJCS Survey Classification of Farmers
Size of     Numbers of Farmers       Percentage of        Numbers of Surveyed      Percentage of Farmers      Average Amount
Hold-ing        Surveyed                Sample            Farmers Renting Land    in Each Size Group           Land Rented
(ae res)    Non-IJCS       IJCS    Non-IJCS      IJCS    Non-IJCS         IJCS         Renting Land           Non-IJCS   IJCS
Non-IJCS          IJCS
Up to 1.00         88        50           35        19          48           27           54           54        0.89      1.10
1.01 - 2.00      112        125          45         47          27           43          24            34       o.86       1.16
2.01 - 3.00       33         66          13         25           4            6          12             9       1.24       0.96
3.01 - 4.oo        4          7           2          3                        2                        29        -         1.14
4.01 - 10.00      11         15           4          5           3            3          27            20       1.17       1.57
More than 10.00    1          3            1         1            -           -            -            _         -         -
Acres
TOTAL    24)       266          100       100           82          81           33            30       0.91      1.14
April 14, 1977
HtlI



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Summary Results of IJCS Survey
Mymensingh       Tangail           Dacca            Comilla          Rangpur      Total/Average
Non             Non              Non              Non              Non             Non
IJCS   IJCS     IJCS   IJCS      IJCS   IJCS    IJCS   IJCS    IJCS   IJCS         IJCS   IJCS
1) Farmers Surveyed No.             64      67       48      50       45     56       46      45       46      48      249    266
2) Percentage of Holding under
Jute                           27      29       28     34       31      37       20      27       27      27       27      31
3) Farmers Growing Jute on
Same Land for Two Years
a) No.                         22      21      13      10       12      16       13      10        9      13       69      70
b) Percentage of Sample        34      31       27     20       27      29       28      22       20      27       28      26
4) Seed and Sowing:
a) Farmers Sowing in
Lines No.                  -       54       -       46       -       51       -       39      -        37      -      227
b) Percentage of Sample        -       84       -      92       -       91       -       87       -       77       -       85
c) Amount of Seed Used
- Seers                   5.3    3.7       6.8    4.1       5.7    4.2      4.0    3.5        4.6    3.9      5.2    3.9
d) Farmers Using Improved
Seed No.                    4      55        2      44        2      49        6      39        1     41       15    228
e) Percentage of Sample         6      82        4     88        4      88       13      87        2      85        6      86
5) Fertilizer Use
a) Farmers Using Urea No.    22        31       18     50       26      55       32      44        8      4,      106    227
b) Percentage of Sample        34      46       38    100       58      98       70      98       17      98       43      85
c) Amouat Used - Seers         18      28       24     37       42      34       28      35       16      27       26      33
d) Farmers Using TSP No.        3      57        4     50       20      55       22      43        1      47       50    252
e) Percentage of Sample         5      85        8    100        4      98       48      96        2      98       20      95
f) Amount Used - Seers          9       7        9      9       31      16       30      15       10       8       27      11
g) Farmers Using MP No.         3      55        3     50       15      54       19      43        1      47       41    249
h) Percentage of Sample         5      82        6    100       33      94       41      96        2      98       16      94
i) Amount Used - Seers         16      12        6     13       14      13       19      14       12      11       16      13
6)' Pest Control
a) Farmers Reporting
Damage No.                  20     30       30      26       26      34       23      24       18      21      117    135
b) Percentage of Sample        31      45       63     52       58      61       50      53       39      44       47      51
c) Farmers Using Pesti-
cides No.                    4     21       12      25       14      27        9      20        3      14       42    107
d) Farmers Using Pesti-
cides as Percentage
of those Reporting
Damage                      20     70       40      96       54      79       39      83       17      67       36      79    MXx
7) Labor Use Mandays/Acre           98    107       128    119       131    136       143      98      137    113       127    115
8) Yields   Maunds/Acre           14.5   21.5    14.0   20.5    14.0   23.5    15.5   23.0    14.0  20.5               14.5   22.0
April 14, 1977



ANNEX 2
Table 4
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
Location of Existing Scheme and of New Schemes
Existing                 New
District           Schemes                Schemes               Total
--------------------Acres----
Mymensingh          84,000                166,000             250,000
Tangail            32,000                 18,000               50,000
Dacca   1/         54,000                  46,000             100,000
Comilla -1/        46,000                  36,000              82,000
Noakhali -          6,000                   8,000              14,000
Sylhet l/           ,2,000                  2,000               4,000
Dinajpur 2/        18,000                   6,000              24,000
Rangpur  2/        76,000                100,000             176,000
Bogra 2/           14,000                   6,000              20,000
Rajshahi 3/        22,000                 12,000              34,000
Pabna  3/           32,000                 14,000              46,000
Faridpur 4/        50,000                 46,000              96,000
Barisal 4/          4,000                   -                   4,000
Jessore  5/        38,000                 26,000              64,000
Kushtia  5/        18,000                   8,000              26,000
Khulna 5/           4,000                   6,000              10,000
Total           500,000                500,000           1,000,000
1/ Noakhali and Sylhet administered from Comilla.
2/ Dinajpur and Bogra administered jointly with Rangpur.
3/ Rajshahi and Pabna jointly administered.
4/ Barisal administered from Faridpur.
5/ Kushtia and Khulna administered from Jessore.
November 3, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Jute Research
A. Background
1.        Responsibility for jute production research rests with the
Directorate of Jute in the Ministry of Jute. The organization of the re-
search Department of this Directorate is given in Table 1. The Bangladesh
Jute Research Institute (BJRI) is located in Dacca and has only a few acres
of land nearby on which to do experimental work. The Institute also has six
substations at Chandina, Faridpur, Jessore, Kishoreganj, Rangpur and Tarabo
and 24 smaller demonstration sites referred to as subvention centers. The
work of the substations has recently been extended to cover some trials in
farmers' fields.
2.        At the Institute's headquarters in Dacca there are about 40 profes-
sional grade staff in seven divisions; agronomy, botany, entomology, micro-
biology, plant pathology, soil science and statistics while at each substation
there is at least one research officer with supporting staff. The substantial
laboratory buildings in Dacca are not fully used and research activity is at
a very low level.
3.        It has already been recognized by the GOB that the importance of
the crop to the national economy merits vigorous research and seed production
programs and that the present Jute Research Institute needs major support
and redevelopment to enable it adequately to service the industry. To this
end GOB has negotiated an agreement with the Asian Development Bank for a
loan of about US$8.5 million under the name of the Bangladesh Jute Seed
Project. This project has a large research component, details of which are
summarized in Appendix 1.
4.        In addition to the ADB loan, major technical assistance support
will be provided by a UNDP-supported project 1/ at a total cost of US$2.0
million of which about 50 percent will be from external sources. The main
components of this project are 118 m/m of international consulting services
and 180 m/m of fellowships together with a small amount of equipment
(US$45,000) mainly transport. The terms of reference of the consultants to
be provided quoted from the Project Document, are given in Appendix 2.
1/ Jute Seed, Research and Production Project:
UNDP/FAO project BGD/74/018/A/01/45.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        At the Jute Research Institute level, the funds and resources
available for development of facilities and research activities are ample
having regard to the present low level of research activity and, as a con-
sequence, the limited capacity of the Institute usefully to absorb the assis-
tance which is available. There if; scope, however, for a broader view to be
taken of jute production research than that presented in both the ADB and UNDP
documents, notwithstanding the comment 1/ about jute as one crop in a rotation
made in the ADB document.
6.        Since there will be a delay of many years before new research
findings emerge in a form in which they can be applied in the field, there is
a need to adapt present knowledge to fit more closely the different situations
under which the two main varieties of jute are grown. While this program
should be generated by the Jute Research Institute it could only be carried
out by the SMSs at zonal level assisted by the JEO and JEA, all of which staff
are located within the Directorate of Agriculture (Jute) within the Ministry
of Agriculture. This could form the essential active link between jute
research and jute extension which so far appears to have been lacking. It
would reinforce the link which is to be developed by the training of SMS at
the Jute Research Institute.
7.        Since the UNDP-supported project has a Senior Research Planner as
the project leader and adequate funds are available at BJRI level (para 5),
any provisions to be made in the IDA financed project should be designed to
provide additional resources to the GOB to allow a modest program to be
carried out at zonal or block level in farmers' fields. The Extension com-
ponent provides for a complement of 40 SMSs at zonal level (two per zone) so
that useful information could be obtained if each of these could supervise
the carrying out of a few trials in their respective zones. These trials
should not be confused with the demonstrations of the increases in yield that
can be obtained using known practices as done in the Intensive Jute Cultiva-
tion Scheme in which average yields were increased from 2.9 to 4.4 bales per
acre. The main difference between the two activities would be that, whereas
the IJCS package seeks to improve jute crops per se, the more experimental
approach proposed as an additional program would place more emphasis on
examining the place of jute in the cropping patterns possible in each of the
main jute growing areas. This topic seems likely to increase in importance
as the main objective of the project (higher yields per acre but a reduced
acreage nationally, thus releasing land for other purposes) is achieved.
1/   Bangladesh Jute Seed Project (ADB document) para 55.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Project Research Support
8.        The research component would be confined to support for a simple
applied research program 1/ and for the costs of training the staff who
would be involved in it.  Since the incremental costs of all the staff are
included in the extension component, the extra costs involved under the
research heading would be essentially those connected directly with the
carrying out of the field trials, and provision for this cost has been made
on the basis of one trial or demonstration per block at a cost of Tk 150
each - for inputs and labor.
Organization and Management
9.        The senior SMS at headquarters would be responsible for assisting
the project Director in technical matters. Within these duties they would
have the responsibility of identifying field problems and passing these
to BJRI for investigation and, equally, they would take the results of re-
search done at BJRI and, in cooperation with BJRI, work out a program for
testing these findings in farmers' fields. This program would be supervised
by the zonal SMS with the JEO and JEA closely involved in doing the trials.
Until such time as new research results are forthcoming, a work program
would be devised to test some of the possibilities given in Appendix 3.
Hopefully this would be done in cooperation with BJRI and would engage the
attention of the Senior Research Planner (under the UNDP project) as an
area deserving perhaps more attention than is proposed in the ADB and UNDP
project documents.
1/   A few topics which could form the start of such a program are given
in Appendix 3.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Organization Chart of Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
Ministry of Jute,                            Directorate of Jute
Director (Seed)                         Director (Research)            Director
(Fiber technology)
Central Jute Research Station                       Regional sub-stations (6)-/
at
Agronomy                              Chandina-/
Botany                                Faridpur
Divisions'    Entomology                             Jessore
Microbiology                          Kishoreganj
Plant Pathology                       Rangpur
Soil Science                          Tabado
Statistics
Subvention centers (24)
(attached to some degree to the
stations)
1/ The officers-in-charge of these stations report directly to the
Director (Research).
2/ Trials in farmers' fields have been started recently and are under
the control of the officer-in-charge of the appropriate sub-station.
April 14, 1977



ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Summary of Provisions for Strengthening Jute Research under the ADB Loan
Jute Research
1.        GOB and the ADB mission consider that it is essential to strengthen
all aspects of jute research ....'.  The general objective of the research
program will be to develop a higher yield, good quality jute variety with
pest and disease resistance and a short growing season. The latter character
being of particular importance as it will facilitate multiple cropping with
jute as one crop in the rotation.
1.  Agricultural Research Facilities
2.        The facilities of the Agricultural Research Division (ARD) of the
Jute Research Institute located at Dacca will be strengthened by _ equipment
for laboratories, books and transport. Greenhouses would be added to existing
facilities for use in plant breeding, entomology and pathology research pro-
grams. Air conditioned seed stores would be added to facilitate the main-
tenance of seed stocks.
3.        The Central Research Station will be located at Manikganj (4o miles
from Dacca) and will be used to support the ARD of BJRI in Dacca. The new
station will be designed by the expatriate farm planner under the guidance of
a consultant on farm development; necessary buildings 1/ and equipment will
be provided.
2.   Jute Research Sub-stations
4.        The research facilities under paras 56 and 57 will be supported by
four regional research substations at Chandina, Kishoreganj, Faridpur and
Nasipur (new-to be used also as a training center).
5.        Farm planning and development .. under the guidance of expatriate
consultants as for the Central Research Station.
6.        Field preparation at the substations would not be mechanized but
would be carried out by bullock drawn equipment. Necessary buildings would
be provided and each substation would have up to six subvention centers
through which the final testing of recommendations before general release
to farmers would be done.
1/   Housing for research staff NOT included.



ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Page 2
3.   Breeder Seed Farms
7.        Production of 1.3 tons per annum of breeders'seed would be the
responsibility of the ARD and farms would be equipped to allow this seed
to be produced.
4.   Consultants for Agricultural Research
8.        The GOB and the ADB mission agree .... a large input of consultant
services (details of these services, to be provided through a UNDP project,
are given in Appendix 2).
9.               the Project will provide a pilot rettery to facilitate
studies on fibre quality.
5.   Research Fellowships
10.       Provision is made for fellowships in agronomy, plant breeding and
genetics, entomology, pathology, microbiology, soil science, and seed tech-
nology to a total of 180 man-months.
A complete breadown of Project Costs between agricultural research
and seed farm development was not available at appraisal. There is no reason
to suppose however, that adequate provision has not been made for the devel-
opments outlined above to be carried through successfully since the total
project costs excluding technical consultants amount to US$10.8 m. of which
$6.8 m. are for farm development and buildings and $2.15 are for equipment and
transport.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Consultants to be Provided under
UNDP-Assisted Project BGD/74/018/A/01/15
Personnel Costs. A total of 118 man/months of international con-
sulting services will be provided.
Senior Agricultural Research Planner. He will be located at Dacca
for a period of six months, commencing 1 October 1976. He will examine the
past performance of the Agricultural Research Division of the Jute Research
Institute, evaluate existing research programs and research departments,
make recommendations on the reorganization of jute research in Bangladesh,
provide the overall framework for short- and long-term research programs
and identify the fields in which fellowships should be awarded. He will
coordinate the work of the consulting team.
Plant Pathologist. He will be located in Dacca for a period of
twenty-four months, commencing 1 January 1977. He will assist in implementing
the proposals made by the Senior Research Planner and, in addition, will
assist in setting up a research division in plant physiology and he will pay
particular attention towards assisting in the full utilization of green-house
facilities.
Plant Breeder. He will be located in Dacca for a period of thirty-
six months, commencing 1 January 1977. He will be primarily concerned with
assisting in the introduction and building up of a comprehensive collection
of jute germ plasm and the evaluation of the introduced and currently
available varieties. He will also assist in making selections, initiating
breeding programs and coordinating varietal improvement work being carried
out by other research organizations in Bangladesh. He will coordinate the
work of the consulting team after the departure of the Senior Agricultural
Research Planner.
Design Engineer. He will be located in Dacca for a period of 24
months, commencing 1 January 1977. He will examine equipment presently
utilized for sowing and weeding of jute crops, identify shortcomings and
ascertain the reaction of farmers. He will develop one or more designs of
suitable equipment for sowing and row-weeding of jute on the different soil
types found in the predominantly jute growing areas in Bangladesh, taking
into account both animal drawn and hand-operated designs.
Seed Technologist. He will be located in Dacca for periods of
three months, commencing in October in each of three years, commencing 1978.
He will assist in the jute research institute in all matters relating to



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 2
the technical aspects of the seed production program. This will include
the evaluation of seed production techniques, procedures adopted for seed
treatment and storage and the identification of studies in seed physiology
required in order to promote the viability of seeds retained in buffer
stocks.
Experts in Entomology, Plant Pathology and Agricultural Economics.
These consultants will be recruited as and when required with provision for
a total of 18 man-months of service. The experts in entomology and plant
pathology will work closely in the evaluation of research work being carried
out at the laboratory, green-house and field level in the agricultural
research division. They will assist in developing research techniques and
help draw up specific research programs. The expert in agricultural
economics will assist in setting up a section of agricultural economics in
the Jute Research Institute and he will advise on the nature and scope of
the long-term research programme related to Jute with an assessment of the
staff requirements for such a progravm.
Farm Development Specialist. He will be located at various sites
in Bangladesh over a period of 36 months, commencing in October 1977. He
will help prepare a blueprint for the development of those farms which will
be modernized during the course of the Project.
Farm Management Expert. Ile will be located at various sites over
a period of 27 months, commencing in October 1979. Once the farm development
program is completed, the consultant in farm management will assist local
counterparts in running the farms, naking farm management decisions, drawing
up work plans, assigning the work fcrce and machinery, preparing a recording
system of consummable stores. He will also assist in drawing up crop culti-
vation sheets and train local counterpart staff in modern farm management
techniques.
Training Fellowships. One of the responsibilities of the agricul-
tural research planner will be to determine the fields of study in which
fellowships should be awarded to local scientists based upon the actual
needs of the BJRI. The longer term consultant to plant physiology will
assist the Government cooperating agency in drawing up detailed proposals
for such fellowships regarding duration, selection of the appropraite in-
stitutions and the procedures and arrangements for funding. The detailed
proposals will be subsequently submitted by the Government authorities to
the Executing Agency and the UNDP for approval. It is provisionally esti-
mated that short-term fellowships for the training of local staff in the
general fields of agronomy, plant breeding and genetics, entomology, pathology,
microbiology, soil science and seed technology, making a total of 15 man-
years of fellowships, will be requir,d.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Some Topics for Consideration within an Applied Research Programme
The main difference between the points made herein and the package
approach of the IJCS is one of concept rather than technical content. In
these proposals (and questions) the place of jute as a cash crop in a rota-
tion of crops is given prominence, while for the crop itself a greater flexi-
bility of approach to increasing output and improving quality is indicated.
A.   Present Practices
1.   It is almost impossible to believe that one standard rate
of fertilizer application can be optimal under the range
of soils and moisture conditions under which the two main
varieties of jute are grown. Simple trials with a large
number (200) of dispersed replicates on farmers' fields
could identify differences in responses and possibly lead
to economies in fertilizer use.
2.   Have all the possibilities of plant density and spatial
distribution of the crop been explored from the produc-
tion economics angle rather than from the purely yield
angle?   Several factors are involved in this of which
seeding rate, weeding costs, ease of access for pest
control may be important.
3.   What is the effect on subsequent crops of using seed grown
outside of the normal growing season?
4.   What is the precise range of possible sowing dates for the
two varieties to ensure an economic yield i.e. how early/late
can the crops be sown and equally what is the optimum economic
balance between early harvest (high quality/low yield) and
harvest at full maturity (lower quality/higher yield).
5.   Why is C. olitorius grown in some low lying areas e.g.
Faridpur (where C. capsularis might be expected to be more
suitable) and vice versa e.g. Rangpur area?



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 2
B.   Jute in the Rotation
1.   Early maturing varieties are being sought to try to avoid
damage from flooding late in the season; these varieties
might also allow a T. Aman crop to follow in non-flood
prone areas. What is the earliest possible harvest date
compatible with a reasonabLe return and having regard to
the added return from the iollowing paddy crop?
2.   Is it possible to obtain a reasonable yield of jute from
late sowing after a short cluration irrigated boro paddy?
If so, how do the returns c:ompare with early Jute followed
by T.aman or wheat or a pulse crop?
3.   Where climatic and soil conditions permit of multiple
cropping does the rate of fertilizer application to jute
need to be amended to take account of residues from fer-
tilizers applied to other crops in the rotation?



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Credit for Production and Marketing
A. Background
1.        In October 1973 an IDA mission visited Bangladesh to examine the
agricultural credit system. The mission identified the problems as mainly
institutional and recommended an overhaul of the principal rural credit in-
stitutions, the Bangladesh Cooperative Bank (Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank,
BJSB) and the Bangladesh Agricultural Bank (Bangladesh Krishi Bank, BKB). A
follow-up mission in September 1974 concurred with these findings and singled
out the problem of delinquent debts as the central issue. This mission
suggested that, as an interim strategy, commercial banks should be utilized
as alternative agricultural credit channels. Since then, commercial banks
have played an increasingly important part in providing agricultural credit
and IDA has agreed to support a subproject to review and help rehabilitate
the agricultural credit system under second the Technical Assistance Credit
(Cr. 622-BD).
2.        BKB and a commercial, the Sonali Bank (SB), have both participated
in the IJCS credit operation as channels for GOB funds. GOB allocated Tk 9 M
to each bank for this purpose in 1976. As the funds were received late,
disbursement last season amounted to only about 50%. IJCS has reported
recoveries of 90% in 1976 for jute loans. Since BKB continues to have a
serious problem of overdues for its normal, non-jute lending - 37.9% as at
June 30, 1975 - GOB has decided that SB should serve as the sole credit
institution for this project.
B. Sonali Bank
Structure Organization and Management
3.        Sonali Bank is a successor in Bangladesh of the National Bank of
Pakistan and is one of the leading commercial banks, all of which have been
nationalized. The Chairman and Managing Director of the six-member Board is
K.A. Rashid, originally from the staff of the State Bank of India and later
Deputy Governor of the Bangladesh Bank. Two General Managers, eight Deputy
General Managers and twelve Assistant General Managers each heading one of
the twelve functional departments, make up the rest of the head office admin-
istration.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Regions/Districts
4.        The country is divided by SB into ten administrative regions.
Each regional office is headed by an Assistant General Manager assisted by
a staff of about 30 on an annual budget of about Takas 0.3 M. The regional
office takes responsibility for general policy implementation, liaising with
Ministries/Government departments, overall administration, supervision,
inspection and financial control of two to three District Branches and of
25 to 50 subdivisional and Thana level branches   per District.  District
Branches are responsible for actual operations carried out directly by them
as well as by the subdivisional branches and by the Thana/Village level
branches. District Branches are well staffed (with about 70 persons) on
an annual budget, each, of about Takas 0.5 M with subdivisional offices and
Thana/Village level offices directly attached to them and carrying staff of
about 40 and 10 respectively (Table 4).
Staff Training
5.        SB has established a staff training institute, headed by a senior
Deputy General Manager. Experienced, well qualified staff are selected and
given courses of teacher training. Twenty-one training camps have already
been established in the Districts -- in Regional/District branch premises.
Hostel accommodation is provided in some camps. Trainees are posted to
District branches and required to report to appropriately located camps.
Clerical staff undergo seven weeks of intensive training. 395 trainees
participated in the course which w£ts conducted in 17 centers from November
26, 1976. A further batch of 400 had been scheduled for the session in the
21 centers from February 2, 1977. In between these sessions the institute
provides training for experienced executive and clerical staff, and advanced
course of training in foreign exchange, as well as periodical training, and
reorientation sessions for trainers. These trainers are regularly brought
back to Dacca for these special sessions. Meanwhile, the Bangladesh Insti-
tute of Bank Management, Dacca, an independent institute jointly financed by
commercial banks, has been reorganized and strengthened. SB has used these
improved facilities too and has had 75 members of its staff trained in the
Institute every year since 1975.
Branch Expansion Program
6.        The opening of commercial bank branches has to be authorized by
Bangladesh Bank, which gives every year each commercial bank a quota of
licenses. SB's network of 438 branches covers all except 61 Thanas within
the 0.5 M acres within IJCS (See Table 5). Most of these 61 would be accom-
modated within the 54 licenses given to SB for opening branches this year and
the remainder would have to be specially authorized by Bangladesh Bank.
Recruitment and training staff for these new branches would be within SB's
capacity.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Performance
7.        SB has made good progress increasing total income annually, by 87%
in 1973, 46% in 1974 and 59% in 1975, as against holding down increase in
expenditure to 56% in 1973, 42% in 1974 and 32% in 1975 (Table 1). The pro-
portion of total expenditure to total income has therefore been declining
annually from 96% in 1972 to 66% in 1975.
8.        Deposits have grown in 1975 by 50% resulting in advances to deposits
falling from 75% in 1974 to 64% in 1975.  The growth of advances - in a poten-
tially delinquent situation - is under effective control and amounted to 51%
in 1973, 30% in 1974, and 28% in 1975.
9.        SB continues to be the leading commercial bank in providing agri-
cultural credit.  It has been steadily increasing its commitment from Takas
36.6 M in 1974 through Takas 114.7 M in 1975 to Takas 216.1 M in 1976 (at an
88% increase in 1976 against 213% in 1975).  Recoveries of production loans
from 1973 have been over 85% except for Boro under Thana Irrigation Program in
1975 - 66%, and T. Aman-Aus in 1976 - 50% (this last is reported to be delayed
but not in default, with recoveries still coming in)(see Table 6).
C. Present System of Credit Under Intensive
Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS)
10.       The procedure for granting production credit to jute farmers under
the existing Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme is as follows. The Jute
Extension Assistant (JEA) and the Secretary of the Jute Farmers' Association
(JFA) draw up lists of farmers' fertilizer requirements. The Jute Extension
Officer (JEO) checks these lists, calculates the total requirements and con-
veys it to the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). BADC
moves the fertilizer to the nearest authorized dealer. The dealer, assisted
by JEA and JFA secretary issues fertilizer to farmers against completion of
loan bonds. He collects these bonds and forwards them to the District Office
of BADC which in turn passes them on to the District Office of SB. SB, which
maintains an IJCS account for the district, makes payments from this account
direct to the dealer. The Ministry of Finance funds this account, at the
beginning of the season, on the basis of estimates made by DAJ of the credit
necessary for the total fertilizer requirements. When jute farmers repay the
loans, the repayments are credited to this account. Any shortfall arising in
the account is borne by GOB. Thus, the role of the banks in IJCS is only to
act as agents for GOB.
D. Proposed Comprehensive Credit Scheme
11.       Under the project credit, operations would be expanded in line with
the proposed physical expansion of IJCS. Operational changes would include:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(a) Making use of the Thana Central Cooperative Association/
Village Cooperative Society - Krishi Samabaya Samity
(TCCA/KSS) mandatory for jute growers in:
(i) the seven Thanas covered by the IDA-supported
Rural Development Project - Kotwali, Sherpur,
Gabtali, Sariakandi (all in Bogra district) and
Muktagacha, Trisal, Gaffargaon (all in Mymensingh
district); and
(ii) the four Thanas covered by the ADB-supported
Serajganj Rural DeveLopment Project - Raiganj,
Kazipur, Serajgonj, llllapara (all in Pabna
district).
The purpose of this would be to conform with the concepts
of the two Rural Development Projects under which all agri-
cultural credit is to be issue through IRDP/TCCA.
(b) The introduction of marketing credit on a pilot scale.
Production Credit
12.       The following production credit would be provided under the project:
Kind Component. Fertilizer, costing about Tk 100 per acre.
Cash Component. About Tk 150 per acre. Jute production has
high labor requirements, particularly for weeding to ensure
good yields, and for speedy harvesting to facilitate timely
transplanting of the aman paddy crop.
13.       Procedures.  JEA assisted by ISO and JFA Secretary would list
farmers' kind and cash requirements. They would calculate farmers' total
requirements, as at present, and pass on the information as appropriate;
individual loan bonds would be prepared as at present, but they would be
expanded to accommodate the cash component. In all other respects present
procedures would be followed (para 10).
14.       After the completion of fertilizer delivery, JEA assisted by ISO
and JFA Secretary would carry out a 10% sample survey of borrowers' jute plots
to verify fertilizer application and progress of cultivation. The JEA would
be required to maintain a log book which would contain his observations and
the comments of other DAJ staff, as well as of SB staff; the latter would
transfer the comments to the loan bonds for subsequent reference, if neces-
sary. Adverse comments would be acted upon, even to the extent of terminating
credit after joint consultation between DAJ and SB.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
15.       DAJ (in the person of the ADA for the district) in consultation
with SB, would decide on the timing for the payment of the first installment
of cash - for weeding. SB staff would prepare and packet the individual cash
requirements and make payment direct to jute farmers at premises selected by
DAJ. Payments would be made on a well advertised day and time. Farmers
would sign a receipt incorporated in the loan bond and the receipt would be
confirmed by JEA, ISO and JFA Secretary all of whom would assist in the
operation. After the first payment, and well before the final installment
is paid out, JEA assisted by ISO and JFA Secretary would carry out a further
10% sample survey, the sample to exclude holdings which were the subject of
the previous sample. Again the JEA would enter his comments into his log book
and convey his comments to SB as necessary. The second and final installment
of the cash component would be paid in an identical operation, just prior to
harvesting, followed by a further and final 10% "fresh" sample survey.
16.       Farmers would continue to be allowed to repay their loans through
the nearest branch of any commercial bank. Loan bonds, properly discharged,
would be released to borrowers who settle their outstanding. Main collections
supported by JEA, ISO and SB staff would start in October and should be com-
pleted before the end of December. SB staff would be available at suitable
centers on well advertised days and times. Farmers who fail to repay their
loans would be debarred from future credit and would be subject to legal
action, and JFA, whose total membership recovery falls below 75% of demand,
would be similarly debarred.
TCCA/KSS
17.       Background.  In 1970 the Government adopted a national rural de-
velopment plan which provided for the phased establishment, throughout the
country, of the TCCA/KSS type of cooperatives. These are based on a model
developed at the Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development in Comilla and
are administered by the Director-General of the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP), a department of the Ministry of Local Government Rural Devel-
opment and Cooperatives. The Department of Cooperatives of the same Ministry
is responsible for all other five cooperatives - the so-called traditional
cooperatives. At present, there are TCCA/KSS in about 200 thanas, and the
coverage is being expanded as new staff are trained. IRDP is administered by
Regional and District Officers and at the Thana level by a Project Officer, a
Deputy and an Accountant.
18.       Organization.  TCCA/KSS is organized on a two-tier system.  TCCA is
located at the main administrative center for the Thana along with the Thana
offices of the principal Government Departments. TCCA are managed by elected
Management Committees, of which the IRDP Project Officers are Secretaries.
Other members of TCCA are the elected representatives of the lower tier, the
KSS, the Village Primary Societies. KSS are also managed by elected Manage-
ment Committees which include a Chairman and an Accountant. The Chairman and
the Accountant are trained by the IRDP Project Officer. Capital formation and
deposit mobilization are achieved by a simple share capital contribution from
each member (Tk 10) and by compulsory thrift savings deposits which confirm
credit eligibility on the borrower (Tk I for each Tk 10 borrowed). These
savings provide a means of security for the loans. While TCCA/KSS operate in



ANNEX 4
Page 6
200 Thanas, they are the only source of cooperative credit in the 11 Thanas
subject to IDA and ADB-financed Rural Development Projects. It is believed
that eventually they will take over from the traditional cooperatives through-
out Bangladesh.
19.       Credit for Jute Through TCCA/KSS.  In accordance with GOB's
intention that in the "rural development Thanas" TCCA/KSS should have a
monopoly of agricultural credit, TCCA/KSS system would provide production
and marketing credit for IJCS in the eleven Thanas. Directorate of Agri-
culture (Jute) staff would provide the same services as in other project
areas and would assist TCCA/KSSs in their Jute credit operations, including
preparation of loan applications and checking of loan utilization. Some
Jute farmers in these Thanas are already members of TCCA/KSS and thus would
be automatically eligible for crezdit. Others who do not belong to TCCA/KSS
and have no outstanding debts to other cooperatives in the RD Thanas would
also be eligible for credit provided they met admission and membership re-
quirements and joined TCCA/KSSs. A condition of membership of the TCCA/KSSs
is that members of former cooperattive organizations have settled any overdue
debts in full or have had them rescheduled under fresh loan agreements with
TCCA/KSS. TCCA/KSS have laid dovn standard rescheduling terms. New TCCA/KSS
members would have to comply to this credit discipline.
20.       If IJCS is to meet its targets in the rural development thanas,
KSS would have to attract a high percentage of jute farmers, up to 90% in
certain localities. For this reason, IRDP headquarters have agreed that
for a two-year transition period temporary modifications would be made in
TCCA/KSS membership interim aid procedures:
(a) new jute farmer members to KSSs would not need to pay
in their Tk 10 share to qualify for membership but would
be permitted to borrow it as part of their production
loan; and
(b) the loan ceiling of new KSS members would not be deter-
mined by his shareholdiag or the savings amount in
his thrift account.
21.       During the two-year traisition period, individual loan appraisal
would continue to be conducted by DAJ which would be assisted by TCCA/KSS
and SB staff. Loan applications laeeting DAJ requirements would be endorsed
by the TCCA and sent to SB for payment. SB would channel credit to farmers
directly through KSS with notification to TCCA, which would be the primary
borrower and which would enter the loan into its books against the accounts
of its constituent KSS sub-borrowers. Since TCCA would not need to use its
own village accountants and inspectors for processing jute loans, its share
of loan interest spread would be below that for its agricultural lending.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Marketing Credit
22.       The project would include a pilot jute marketing component.  TCCA/
KSSs would be selected to participate on the basis of general performance,
satisfactory loan recovery ratios and satisfactory management capacity.
Godowns equipped with baling facilities would be constructed by DAJ in the
same area of these associations and would be available for lease by the
participating TCCA/KSS. Farmer members of participating associations would
be able to have their produce graded, baled and stored at these centers and
receive immediate payment equal to the government minimum farm gate price
less production credit, against hypothecation of stock. The stock would be
held in storage under the joint custody of SB and the TCCA/KSS or DAJ until
sold to licensed dealers and jute mills. The timing of such sales would be
determined by SB on the basis of market information and would be intended to
achieve the best possible price for the grower. Sale proceeds would be
released to DAJ and in time would be passed on to borrowers, less advances
and storage and service charges. IRDP Cooperatives as well as DAJ lack expe-
rience in financing jute marketing. Therefore, this activity is regarded as
a pilot venture and the credit category is restricted to about Tk 30 million.
Terms and conditions of credit to jute farmers and source of credit are
described in the main text.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
JU_E PROJECT
Sonali Bank
Growt:h from 1972
(In million Takas)
December 31
1972        1973   Increase   1974  Increase  1975   Increase
Total Income                   5.52       10.30    87        14.84   44        23.62    59
Total Expenditure              5.28         8.22    56       11.72   42        15.53    32
Total Expenditure/
Total Income (%)              96          80                 80                66
Net Profit                      0.24        2.08     -        3.12   50         8.09   159
Net Profit/Total Income (%)        -       20                21                34
Capital                        2.00         3.00    50        3.00    0         3.00      0
Reserves                           -        0.09     -        0.88  870         3.39   285
Deposits                     173.13       210.26    21      223.92    6       332.93    49
A'vanosi t,u d ing
Bilii) E                      85.37       128.98    51      167.70   30       215.05    28
Advances/Deposits (%)         49          61                 75                64
Total Foreign
Exchange Business             42.40      130.71   208       155.74   19       397.59   155
Total Pretax Profit            0.52         2.49   379        3.98   60         9.70   144
Total Number of Offices    274            306       12      359       17      400        11
Number of Employees        4,708       5,460        16   6,294        15   6,989         11
March 4, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 2
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Sonali Bank
Condensed Balance Sheets as at December 31
(In million Takas)
9 Months
1972      1973       1974       1975
Assets
Cash on hand and with Bangladesh
bank                                158.70    188.97    187.04    348.42
Balances with other banks                2.61       7.53       4.51      66.64
Money at call                           25.00          -       4.44    108.55
Investments at cost                    466.91    394.11    505.39    636.24
Advances                               853.72  1,289.75  1,676.97  2,150.54
Bills receivable being billed
for collection                        5.53    208.59    538.78    738.79
Constituents' liabilities for
acceptances                         506.15    484.69  1,358.84  2,615.95
Premises                                19.79      19.14      18.77      18.21
Furniture                                3.67       4.47       5.47       9.46
Other assets-                          338.65    332.36    340.53    578.41
Profit and loss account (Dr.)           16.05
2,396.78  2,929.61  4,640.74  7,271.21
Capital and Liabilities
Capital                                 20.00      30.00      30.00     30.00
Reserves                                     -      0.96       8.75      33.87
Deposits and other accounts          1,745.01  2,102.57  2,239.23  3,329.31
Borrowings from other banking
companies, agents                     0.11      50.00    421.04    423.67
Bills for collection/receivable          5.55    208.59    538.77    738.79
Other liabilities                      119.98      52.79      44.00      99.60
Acceptances, endowments, etc.          506.14    484.69  1,358.85  2,615.95
Profit and loss after providing
taxes, reserves                          -       0.04       0.10      0.02
2,396.78  2,929.64  4,640.74  7,271.21
a/ Includes balances held with banks in Pakistan.
March 4, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 3
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Sonali Bank
Condensed Statements of Net Income for Years Indicated
(In million Takas)
9 Months
1972              1973               1974               1975
Income
Interest and discount            46.96              84.99             123.11             181.39
Commission, exchange and
brokerage                       8.29              18.04              25.23              54.41
Net profit on sales of
investments, etc.                  -                  -                  -               0.40
Other receipts                       -               0.00               0.08               0.03
55.25            103.03             148.42              236.23
% of               % of               % of               % of
Income             Income             Income             Income
Expenditures
Interest paid on borrowers'
deposit                        27.29    49.4      41.74    40.5      57.07    38.4      84.87    35.9
Salaries, allowances,
providence funds               19.68    35.6      30.08    29.1      45.39    30.5      49.62    21.0
Directors' fees and
allowances                         -                  -                  -               0.02 )
Rent, taxes, insurance,                                                                          )
lighting and telephone          1.97 )             3.52 )             5.62 )             7.52 )
Law charges                       0.02 )             0.19 )             0.20 )             0.34 )
Postage and telegraph stamps      0.45 )             0.52 )             1.05 )             1.97 )
Auditors' fees                    0.02 )             0.02 )             0.02 )             0.02 )
Depreciation on and repairs             )  10.6            )10                   10.1 )             1011.
to bank properties              0.90 )             1.06 )             1.44 )             1.89 )
Stationery, printing and               )                  )                  )                  )
advertisement                   1.09 )             1.58 )             1.76 )             3.10 )
Other expenditure                 1.42 )             3.54 )             4.69 )             5.95 )
Net profit prior to taxation
carried to balance sheet        2.40              20.79              31.18              80.93
55.24            103.03-            148.42             236.23
July 15, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 4
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT.
Sonali Bank
Staffing Pattern of Regional Offices, District Branches,
Subdivisional Branches and Thana/Village Branches
Name of Post                        Number of Staff          Monthly Salaries,
Approximate
(In Taka)
Regional Office - Dacca-l
Assistant General Manager                       1                       3,500
Chief Accountant                                1                       2,500
Accountant                                      2                       3,400
Assistant Accountant                            4                       4,000
Supervising Official                            5                       4,000
Head Cashier (Reserved)                         2                       1,600
Godown Inspector                                1                         800
Clerks                                          5                       3,000
Typist                                          2                       1,200
Messenger                                       4                       1,200
Guard                                           2                         800
Car Driver                                      1                         500
Total                          30                      26,500 ($0.3 M)
District Branch - Comilla
Manager                                         1                       2,500
Accountant                                      3                       5,100
Assietant Accountant                            6                       6,000
Supervising Official                            3                       2,100
Head Cashier                                    3                       2,400
Clerks                                         15                       9,000
Typist                                          2                       1,000
Assistant Cashier                              21                      10,500
Messenger                                      10                       3,000
Guard                                           3                       1,200
Car Driver                                      I                         500
Total                          68                      43,300 ($0.5 M)
Subdivisional Branch - Chandpur
Manager                                         1                       1,700
Accountant                                      1                       1,500
Assistant Accountant                            2                       2,000
Supervising Official                            3                       2,100
Head Cashier                                    1                         800
Clerks                                         10                       5,000
Typist                                          2                       1,000
Assistant Cashier                              10                       5,000
Messenger                                       4                       1,200
Guard                                           3                       1,200
Godown Keeper                                   1                         400
Godown Chowkider                                2                         600
Total                          40                      22,500 ($0.25 M)
Thana/Village Branch - Debidwar
Manager                                         1                       1,200
Head Cashier                                    1                         800
Clerks                                          2                       1,000
Assistant Cashier                               1                         500
Messenger                                       1                         300
Bank Guard                                      3                       1,200
Total                           9                       5,000 ($0.06 M)
March 2, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Sonali Bank
Existing Branch Network Vi-A-Vis 0.5 M Acres
Under Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
Area Under The      Number
Name of Zone             Ninme of Thana/Unit     Project (In Acres)  of Units
Dacca (27 Units)
Dacca                  Nowabganj                         2,000            1
Kapasia                           2,000            1
Kaligaj                           4,000            2
Dohara7                           2,000            1
Savar                             2,000            1
Dhamrai                           4,000            2
MurLshigan1/                      4,000            2
Lauhaj ang-                       2,000            1
Serajdikhan                       2,000            1
Tongibari                         2,000            1
Man ikganj                        2,000            1
Singair                           2,000            1
Narayanganj                       2,000            1
Baidyer Bazar                     2,000            1
Narsingdi                         2,000            1
Raipuraa/                        4,000             2
Shibpuraa                         2,000            1
monohard a                        2,000            1
Saturia-f                         2,000            1
Rupganj                           2,000            1
Kaliakoir                         2,000            1
Shi'balaya                        2,000            1
Keraniganj (Zinzira)              2,000            1
Total                 54,000           27
Mymensingh and Kishoreganj '31 Units)
Mymensingh             Kotwali                           4,000            2
Muktagacha                        4,000            2
Fulbaria                          2,000            1
Trishal                           4,000            2
Gaff'argaon                       4,000            2
Bhalukaa/                         2,000            1
Phulpur- a/                       4,000            2
Halu.aghat-                       2,000            1
Iswarganj                        4,000             2
Grouripur                         2,000            1
Nandail                           4,000            2
Kendua                            2,000            1
Netrokona                         2,000            1
Purbadhala-/                      2,000            1
Kishoregani            Kishoregan                        4,000            2
Karimgan -                        4,000            2
Barhataa4!                        2,000            1
Hossainpu a/                      2,000            1
Pakundia/-                        2,000            1
Katiadi-a                         2,000            1
Bajetpur                          2,000            1
Kuliarchar                        2,000            1
Total                 62,000           31
March 2, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 2
Area Under The    Number
Name of Zone             Name of ThanafUnit      Project (In Acres) of Units
Tangail and Jamalpur (27 Units)
TTangail                                                6,000            3
Bhuapur-a                        2,000            1
Mirzapur                         4,000            2
Ghatai2a/                        4,000            2
Kalihatia/                       4,000            2
Gopalpura,                       4,000            2
Nagorpura                        2,000            1
Basail.!                         2,000            1
Modhupur                         4,000            2
Jamalpur              Jamalpur                          4,000            2
SarishabaFi                      2,000            1
MelandhaaP                       4,000            2
Sherpur                          2,000            1
Sreebardi                        2,000            1
Dewanganj                        2,000            1
Islampur!/                       4,000            2
Nandina                          2,000            1
Total                 54,000          27
Faridpur and Barisal (27 Units)
Faridpur               Kotwali                          4,000            2
Bhanga                           4,000            2
Boalmari                         4,000            2
Rajbari                          2,000            1
Pangsha                          4,000            2
Nagar-kanda                      4,000            2
Baliakandaa-/                    4,000            2
MuksedpurA/                      4,000            2
Gopalgani                        2,000            1
Rajoir Y                         4,000            2
Kalkini-                         2,000            1
Madaripur       a/4,000                           2
Shibohar-Jaqnjiraa               2,000            1
Palang  a/                       2,000            1
Sadarpur-                        2,000            1
Naria/                           2,000            1
Barisal                Gournadi                         2,000            1
Wazirpur                         2,000            1
Total                 54,000          27
Rangpur and Dinajpur (27 Units)
Rangpur               Kotwali                           4,000            2
Kauniaa/  a                      2,000            1
Gangachara-                      2,000            1
Badargang                        4,000            2
Kaliganj./                       2,000            1
Nilphamari                       4,000            2
Domar   a/                       2,000            1
Jaldhaka-  a/                    2,000            1
Kishoregani-                     2,000            1
Kurigram                         4,000            2
Ulipur                           4,000            2
Lalmonirhat                      4,000            2
Dinajpur               Kotwali      /                   2,000            1
Chirirbandar-                    2,000            1
Birgang                          2,000            1
Debigani                         2,000            1
Khansama                         4,000            2
Thakurgaon                       2,000            1
AtwarO/                          2,000            1
Boda                             2,000            1
Total                 54,000          27



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 3
Area Under The      Number
Name of Zone            Name cf Thana/Unit       Project (In Acres)  of Units
Rangpur and Bogra (27 Units)
Rangpur                Gaibandha                          6,000            3
Palashbari                        4,000            2
Gobindaganj                       6,000            3
Saghataa/                         2,000            1
Sundarg nja                       4,000            2
Sadulla,urA/                      4,000            2
FulcharLa/                        2,000            1
Pirganj                           2,000            1
Pirgach-i                         4,000            2
Mithapu<ur                        6,000            3
Bogra                  Gabtali   /                        2,000            1
Shibganj a                        2,000            1
Jaipurh.it                        2,000            1
Sariakaiidi                       4,000            2
Bogra (')                         2,000            1
Dhunot                            2,000            1
Total                 54,000            27
Rajshahi and Pabna (27 Units)
Rajshahi               Paba   ZI                          2,000            1
Bagmara-                          4,000            2
Natore                            2,000            1
Mohadevrur                        2,000            1
Naogaot                           2,000            1
Mandae/                           2,000            1
Badalgachi                        2,000            1
Nawabgania/                       2,000            1
Baraigram-                        2,000            1
Bagtiparaa/                       2,000            1
Pabna                  Pabna Sadar                        2,000            1
Chatmohqr                         2,000            1
Sathia/                           2,000            1
Sujlanagar-                       2,000            I
Serajganj                         4,000            2
Raiganja-  a/                     4,000            2
Kamarkho rnd-                     2,000            1
Shahjadpir                        4,000            2
Kazipur  /                        4,000            2
Atghoria-                         2,000            1
Ullapara                          4,000            2
Total                 54,000           27
Jessore, Kusthia and Khulna (30 llnits)
Jessore                Kotwali                           2,000             1
Jhikarga.ha                       2,000            1
Monirampi.rA/                     4,000            2
Keshabpula/                       2,000            1
Bagerpar!                         2,000            1
Kaligaij                          2,000            1
Sarsaa/                           2,000            1
Jhenaidal                         2,000            1
Sailkupaa/                        2,000            1
Narial                            2,000            1
Lohaga a                          4,000            2
Kalia_a                           2,000            1
Magura     a/                     4,000            2
Mohammadpair-                     4,000            2
Salika                            2,000            1



ANNEX 4
Table 5
Page 4
Area Under The      Number
Name of Zone             Name of Thana/Unit       Project (In Acres)  of Units
Jessore, Kusthia and Khulna (30 Units) (Cont'd.)
Kushtia                Kotwali                            2,000            1
Kumarkhali                        2,000            1
Daulatpura                        2,000            1
Chuadangra                        2,000            1
Damurhuda-                        2,000            1
Jiban-nagar                       2,000            1
Almdanga                          2,000            1
Maherpur                          2,000            1
Gangni                            2,000            1
Khulna                 Satkhira                           2,000            1
Kalaroa                           2,000            1
Total                 60,000            30
Comilla, Noakhali and Sylhet (27 Units)
Comilla                Chandina                           2,000            1
Debidawar                         2,000            1
Muradnagar                        2,000            1
Daudkaydi                         4,000            2
Homna- a2,000                                      1
Burichang-/                       4,000            2
Barura                            2,000            1
Chandpur                          2,000            1
Faridganj                         2,000            1
Motlab                            2,000            1
Laksham                           2,000            1
Hajigan}                          2,000            1
Kachua-                           2,000            1
Brahmanbaria                      6,000            3
Sarial                            2,000            1
Nabinapr                          4,000            2
Kashba-                           2,000            1
Bancharampur                      2,000            1
Noakhali               Laxmipur                           2,000            1
Raipur                            2,000            1
Ramganj                           2,000            1
Sylhet                 Madhabpur                          2,0001
Total                 54,000           27
Grand Total          500,000          250
a/ 61 Thanas are not covered directly by existing Sonali Bank branch
network.
March 2, 1977



ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH                       Table 6
JUTE PROJECT
SB's Production Loans Through TCCA in 162 Thanas
(As on Decemaber 30, 1976)
Credit Head              Year        Amount of Credit      Recovery Position
(in million Takas)        (In percent)
T. Aman                    1973              5,880                  100
TIP Boro                   1973             12,460                   99
B. Aman - Aus              1974              2,990                  100
T. Aman                    1974             12,235                   98
Potato                     1974                400                  100
TIP Boro                   1974             21,000                   95
B. Aman - Aus             1975               3,114                   94
T. Aman                   1975              16,955                  100
Potato - Wheat             1975              1,753                   88
TIP Boro                  1975              30,720                   66
B. Aman - Aus             1976               9,590                   50
T. Aman                   1976              25,390            Recovery time
not due yet.
Potato                     1976              3,515                   "
Wheat                      1976              3,000                   "
TIP Boro                   1976             34,275
March 2, 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Internal Jute Marketing
I. PRESENT SYSTEM
Introduction
1.        Internal jute marketing is complex, since small lots of jute from
large numbers of growers have to be assembled into large batches for export
and use by local mills. While the present system performs this task, it is
handicapped by monopolistic practices and ineffective government policies.
Marketing costs are high and farmers often do not receive fair prices. The
project would explore ways of improving the marketing system, in particular
to channel more of the profits of the marketing process to farmers to
increase production incentives.
Institutions
2.        The government purchasing corporations, private sector (middlemen)
and jute mills are involved in internal marketing; the former two are those
principally concerned.
Government Corporations
3.        After Liberation (1971), Government assumed control of virtually
all aspects of the jute trade - internal marketing and exports. The aim
was to channel profits to the economy and to the farmers. This led to the
creation of four government purchasing corporations and one corporation
responsible for managing exports of raw jute. All these corporations were
controlled by the Ministry of Jute. The main objective of the purchasing
corporations was to procure raw jute directly from farmers, thereby avoiding
the cost of middlemen and providing higher prices to farmers, while reducing
export prices and raw material cost to mills. Each corporation was headed
by a Managing Director, had its own technical staff (purchaser, supervisor,
accountant, etc.) and had designated areas of the country under its juris-
diction, with purchasing centers and its own godowns and baling facilities.
There was no competition between the corporations in procuring raw jute.
Consequently the set-up merely increased overhead costs.
4.        In early 1976 the four corporations were merged into two; the
existing corporations are the Jute Trading Corporation and the Jute Marketing
Corporation. In spite of this reorganization, these corporations have re-
mained ineffective. Reasons are that the corporations are run along non-
commercial lines by civil servants. Profit and loss is not their major



ANNEX 5
Page 2
concern. Their financial structure is weak, working capital is restricted
and hence the corporations are unable to procure jute early in the season
when jute prices are low. In addition, the corporations are unable to
purchase directly from farmers, since they have neither the staff nor the
facilities to collect small amounts of jute from individual, scattered
farmers. Thus they continue to rely for procurement on middlemen, who
collect from farmers at the village level. Supervision of corporations,
field staff and quality control is weak; their accounts are neither pub-
lished, nor audited.
5.        Although conceptually government purchasing corporations are
essential to enforce the Government's minimum raw jute price and to provide
competition to the private sector, their present organization, financial
structure and management is so ineffective that they are, at present, unable
to achieve their objectives. It Ls anticipated that under UK bilateral
assistance a consulting firm would be employed to review the present organ-
ization and assist the Government in restructuring the corporations to render
them more effective.
6.        Private Sector.  In early 1976 the jute trade was liberalized.
The private sector was permitted t:o purchase and export jute directly without
channeling exports through the Bangladesh Jute Export Corporation, which had
previously been solely responsible for handling exports. However private
traders are still required to register their exports with the Bangladesh Bank
and export at prices fixed by the Government. This liberalization did infuse
more vigor into the jute export trade in Bangladesh. However in the absence
of any effective competition, the private sector acquired a monopolistic
position. In the current season (1976/77) since the private sector managed
to acquire a substantial portion of the crop, they have been able to manipulate
internal raw jute prices. There is a danger that if such an unhealthy trend
continues, the Government might revert to nationalization of the trade, an
alternative which proved ineffective in the past. It is apparent that a
system should be developed whereby both the government corporations and the
private sector work side by side, providing competition to each other to
ensure a fair market mechanism. Legislation alone will not achieve this.
The government corporations should be revitalized to provide effective
competition to a healthy private sector.
7.        Jute Mills.  All mills are nationalized and are the major internal
consumer of raw jute. The government corporations and the private sector
provide the majority of the mills' raw jute requirements. Some of the larger
mills have their own purchasing centers to purchase directly from the farmers
to obtain price benefits. However due to the lack of working capital and
organizational problems, the mills generally have to resort to middlemen for
their supplies. If a system could be developed whereby farmers could collec-
tively offer jute in sizeable quantities, this would be welcomed by the mills
and the government corporations and beneficial to both farmers and the pur-
chasers, who would share in price benefits and reduce costs.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Marketing Channels
8.        Jute is channeled through three marketing levels:  village (primary),
secondary and terminal. At the village markets, the sole outlet for the
majority of farmers, only middlemen purchase the jute. No storage or baling
facilities are available. After collecting their purchases of jute, middle-
men forward it to the secondary market, without any processing or grading,
where they sell it to either exporters, mills or to government corporations.
The government corporations grade and bale the jute in katcha form. The
private exporters generally ship the raw jute to the terminal market where
it is graded and baled in pucca or katcha form. From terminal markets jute
is either sold to the jute mills in katcha bales or is exported in pucca bales.
9.        The village market is held once a week.  Jute growers are small
scale (average holding size is 0.5 ac.) and the average amount sold by each
farmer is between 10-12 maunds. Their financial position is very weak; their
bargaining and holding capacity is small, in the absence of any credit or
storage facilities. Middlemen, recognizing these limitations, take advantage
of the situation in determining the price, quality and measurement of jute.
10.       The farmers market their jute shortly after harvest and virtually
all jute is sold by the farmers between July and mid-December, the peak month
being October. On the weekly village market day, farmers from within a
radius of six miles, bring their jute to be sold. Since farmers rely on the
sale of their jute for their purchases of basic necessities (salt, oil, etc.)
and no storage facilities are available, farmers accept any price prevailing
that day. On an average village market day 8-10 middlemen are present and
between them determine the selling price for that day, irrespective of the
Government minimum price (see para 12). The middlemen do not start purchasing
until the later afternoon hours, their scales are defective and measurements
are in English. Thus farmers, on average, lose about Tk 4-5/maund. In
addition, the middlemen usually do not pay adequately for grade differences,
thus causing farmers a further loss. Seasonal price rises, averaging Tk 6-7/
maund, are not reaped by many of the farmers particularly small farmers who
have to sell early in season. Thus, at present, farmers often do not receive
fair market prices and have little incentive to improve the quality of their
jute. The present system unnecessarily increases the cost of raw materials
to domestic mills, as well as to exporters. Between the village and secondary
markets, the jute remains ungraded and unbaled. The physical movement of
voluminous quantities of jute overburdens the limited transportation facili-
ties and increases the cost. In addition, middlemen frequently adulterate
jute by adding water and sand to increase the weight, with adverse effects
on quality. While the jute is being forwarded to secondarv markets it
remains in the open air or in poor storage facilities, resulting in additional
losses of about 6%. All these increases in cost could be reduced or saved,
with an effective marketing system.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
11.       Estimated total marketing cost between farmer and the export port
is as follows:
Marketing Cost
Tk/Maund
Village Market                          At Present /a With the Project
Collection & Handling Cost                  3.52
Middlemen's Profit                          1.88
Middlemen Grade Differential Profit         2.00
Middlemen's Holding Profit                  4.10
Sub-Total                            11.50
Secondary Market
Katcha Baling                              16.00
Katcha Balers' Profit                       4.00            26.50 /b
Sub-Total                            20.00
Terminal Market
Pucca Balers' Cost                         13.00            10.00
Pucca Balers' Profit                        4.50             4.00
Sub-Total                            17.50             14.00
Export Handling Charges                     4.00             3.00
Quality Control, Insurance, etc.            0.50             0.50
Grand Total                          53.50             44.00
Export Price                              160.00           160.00
Market Cost as % Export Price               33%              28%
/a Based on Annex 5.
Tb See para 18.
It can readily be seen that market costs constitute a very high percentage
of total export cost and efforts at cutting market costs would be an important
contribution to increasing jute's competitiveness in international markets.
Based on past experience, it is nolt feasible for government corporations to
purchase directly from farmers, thus effectively ensuring fair market or
minimum government prices to farmers. Thus to reduce the farmers' present



ANNEX 5
Page 5
complete dependence on middlemen for sale of their production, and to let
them share marketing profits, the project would, on a trial basis provide
50 groups of farmers with credit, storage and baling facilities (Section II).
Pricing Policy
12.       The Government sets a minimum raw jute purchase price to ensure a
fair return to growers. Export prices are also determined by the Government.
Minimum raw jute price is, in principle, announced before commencement of the
growing season. However, only in 1976, in fact, was the minimum price actually
announced before sowing commenced. Since the Government is unable to ensure
the effective implementation of the minimum price, its practical value to
the farmers is very limited. Moreover, prices are determined on an ad hoc
basis. Although there is a Price Advisory Committee, chaired by the Secretary,
Jute Division of the Ministry of Jute, no systematic analysis of demand and
supply or production and marketing costs are taken into consideration. Sim-
ilarly, export prices reflect neither the international nor domestic demand/
supply pattern. A permanent centralized Price Commission or body should also
be created to review jute agricultural pricing problems on a regular basis,
and their decisions need to be based on demand supply balance, production
cost and marketing cost, etc., scientifically gathered. The jute/paddy price
relationship should also be carefully analyzed and taken into consideration.
The export pricing policy should also be formulated on a 3-5 year basis,
so that potential importers are reassured and persuaded to retain their jute
production lines, rather than switch to synthetics. In the absence of an
effective pricing policy, the benefit of an effective marketing system will
not be fully reaped. The GOB has recognized this limitation and is reviewing
this issue. An IDA Foodgrain Price Policy Review Mission visited Bangladesh
in March 1977. Its prelimnary recommendations for establishing an effective
foodgrain and jute price mechanism are described in the main text.
II. PROPOSED PILOT MARKETING SCHEME
Loose Jute Storage at Village Level
13.       Two models were evaluated for the trial marketing scheme.  The first
was based on constructing a godown at the block with capacity to store 2,000
maunds loose jute. The capacity was estimated by assuming that only part of
the block jute production would flow through the godown while a substantial
amount would continue to be marketed by traditional channels. Coercion of
jute farmers to market jute through the scheme was ruled out. Total pro-
duction per block is estimated at 10,000 maunds per year and it was assumed
that about 40% of it would be marketed through the scheme.
14.       The store could either be operated by the Directorate of Agricul-
ture (Jute) (DAJ) which would charge fees to recover operating expenses
including amortization of the cost of the godown or, in IRDP areas, could be



ANNEX 5
Page 6
rented from DAJ and operated by KSSs. Farmers would deliver jute and receive
the Government minimum farmgate price for jute delivered. However, estimates
(Table 1) show that costs of this svstem would not be less than Tk 12.50 per
maund which compares with Tk 11.50 per maund present marketing costs. The
high cost of marketing under the sclheme is due to large storage capacity
needed for loose jute fiber and consequent high capital cost of the godown.
15.       Loose jute storage at vilJage level would hold advantages for
farmers who would have a store practically at the farmgate and, since it
would involve not too large a group of farmers (400-500) the system would
be simple to manage. However, apart from high costs, advantages from reducing
transportation costs would be lost and it would be difficult to stack different
fiber grades separately so that some benefits from grading jute may also be
lost.
Storage and Katcha Baling at Unit Level
16.       The other system examined proposes a 2,000 katcha bale (8,000 maunds)
store at unit level (grouping of 5 blocks) and has been used for project cost
estimating purposes. Such operation would achieve storage economies by baling
and would aim to deliver jute to exporters or jute mills taking full advan-
tage of markups at various stages of marketing. In non-IRDP areas DAJ would
own and operate the stores and baling presses and would charge fees to recover
costs. In IRDP areas, TCCA would organize marketing. They could either allow
DAJ to operate the stores or lease them and undertake the operation themselves.
Where DAJ operates the store it wouldl employ store management and staff for
purchasing, grading, stacking and selling the jute. The fiber would be
graded, baled and stored to take advantage of seasonal price rises. It would
then be sold to exporters (including government corporations) and mills.
17.       Cost of the traditional syEtem for similar operations is estimated
at Tk 31.50 per maund (para. 11). EEtimates for the proposed system (Table 2)
shows costs at Tk 24.25 per maund (at a throughoutput of 16,000 maunds per
year) for DAJ operation. These costE include a Tk 5 per maund profit element
for farmers judged to be adequate incentive for farmers to participate, and
being the increase in net revenue received over Tk 85.50 per maund assumed as
average payment by middlemen.
18.       An income and cash flow estimate for a cooperative renting the
shed and baling presses and operating them is shown in Table 3. Costs per
maund is Tk 26.50 based on a buying price of Tk 85.50 paid by middlemen
and the coop sales price of Tk 112. Higher costs than departmental opera-
tions have been assumed to give the cooperative some surplus to build up
reserves.
19.       With this new scheme, initial farmers' participation is not assured.
Consequently, the scheme should be as attractive as possible in the early
stages. It is, therefore, proposed thiat fees for sheds operated by DAJ
should be based on ultimate projected throughput. In the case of the 2000
katcha bale model, this would be 16,000 maunds jute per year. Consequently,



ANNEX 5
Page 7
in early years fee revenue may not fully cover costs. For instance, with
an 8,000 maunds throughput and using Table 3 the subsidy would be Tk 2 per
maund. If all 50 project stores were to operate at 8,000 maunds jute per
year, total subsidy would be Tk 800,000 per year. Design of sheds, needs
refining and organization of operations, management and record keeping are
yet to be devised. This would be the responsibility of the jute marketing
unit in DAJ headquarters. For each unit, a management committee would be
established, comprising representatives of DAJ, the local branch(es) of
Sonali Bank and the local JFAs. These committees would guide and supervise
the management of these units by DAJ or TCCA. Sonali Bank which would pro-
vide marketing credit has much experience in jute marketing and would assist
particularly with grading and market intelligence. In addition, Ministry of
Jute staff would help to train DAJ field staff in jute grading. Finally, the
project monitoring system (Annex 7) would pay particular attention to this
operation and would suggest modifications as needed.
20.       Because of its experimental nature the size of the scheme would be
small - a total of 50 sheds. The first ten of these would not be ready until
the 1979 jute marketing season and designs for the next construction batch
would have to be commissioned before the experience of the first marketing
season can be evaluated. Consequently the second batch would also be con-
fined to 10 sheds for 1980 construction, with the balance of 30 sheds to
be constructed in 1981.
21.       The outline of the trial marketing scheme given in the preceding
paragraphs should serve as a guideline only and project management in
consultation with IDA should feel free to modify these proposals as may be
found to be necessary. Closer field investigations by the project marketing
unit may even find loose jute marketing at village level worth trying.



ANNEX 5
-Tablel
BANGLADESH
_'UTE PROJECT
Jute Marketing Costs
Loose Jute Storage at Village Level
Storage Capacity 2,000 Maunds
A. Jute Store Operating Costs
1.  Annual Fixed Costs                                      Tk
- 1/
Amortization of Godowa                             12,000
Building Insurance                                  4,500
Building Maintenance                                1,000
Management Cost                                      6,000
Establishment Cost                                  3,500
Total                                          27,000
2. Variable Cost
2/
Marketing Expenses         Tk 3.50 per  maund
3. Cost Per Maund at Various Throughputs
Maunds
Throughput              Total Cost Tk          Cost per Maund Tk
2,000                    34,000                    17.00
3,000                    37,500                    12.50
4,000                    41,000                    10.25
B. Farmer's Cost
Tk per Maund
Interest on Marketing Credit                        2.35
Miscellaneous                                        0.15
Total                                         2.50
C. Total Cost per 1!ai.rd _at Various Throughputs
Storage and         Farmer's
Throughput         Baling Cost           Cost             Total Cost
Maunds                 ----------------Tk----------------------
2,000              17.00              2.50               19.50
3,000              12.50              2.50               14.50
4,000              1C.25              2.50               12.75
1/ Based on capital cost of Tk 120,000 repaid over 15 years at 5.5%
interest.
2/ Same as Faria's costs - Appendix 1, Table 1.
April 1, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 2
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Jute Marketing Costs
Storing with Katcha Baling
Storage Capacity 8.000 Maunds
A.   Jute Store and Baling Press Operating Cost
1. Annual Fixed Costs                                         a
Amortization of Godown and Bailing Press              24,0001'
Building Insurance                                    10,000
Building Maintenance                                   2,000
Management Cost                                       24,000
Establishment Cost                                    16,000
Total                                            76,000
2. Variable Cost
Baling-/ - Tk 11 per maund
3. Cost per Maund at Various Throughputs
Maunds
Throughput             Total Cost Tk          Cost per Maund Tk
8,000                  164,000                   20.50
12,000                  208,000                   17.33
16,000                  252,000                   15.75
B.   Farmer's Cost
Tk per Maund
Transport                     /                   1.00
Interest on Marketing Credit-                     2.35
Miscellaneous                                      0.15
Profit-                                           5.00
8.50
C.   Total Cost per Maund at Various Throughputs
Storage and         Farmer's
Throughput         Bailing Cost         Cost             Total Cost
Maunds          -    -------- - - - --- ---          ------
8,000               20.50            8.50              29.00
12,000               17.33            8.50               25.83
16,000               15.75            8.50               24.25
1/ Based on capital cost of Tk 240,000 repaid over 15 years at 5.5%
interest.
2/ Appendix 1 para 5.
3/ Based on 13% interest over 3 months on Tk 72 per maund (80% advance
on Tk 90 per maund, the projected minimum farmgate price).
4/ The amount over and above Tk 85.50 per maund assumed as middleman's
payment to farmers.
March 24, 1977



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Income and Cash Flow for Farmers Group
Jute Marketing Activity
(Tk'000)
Year l      2        3        4        5        6       7        8        9        10       11       12       13       14       15
INCOME
Sales 1/                                896   1,344   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792   1,792
Interest payable by farmers for
jute purchasing credit 2/               18      28       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37
Interest from surplus 3/                  -        -       1        2        3        5        6        9       12       15       18       21       25       28       32
(1)     Total Income                         914   1,372   1,830   1,831   1,832   1,834   1,835   1,838   1,841   1,844   1,847   1,850   1.854   1,857   1,861
EXPENDITURE
Management                               24       24       24      24       24       24       24       24       24       24       24       24       24       24       24
Establishment                            16       16      16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16
Rent 4/                                  22       28      37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37
Baling 5/                                RR     132      176      176      176      176      176      176      176      176      176      176      17b      176      176
Interest on credit for jute
purchase 6/                             11       16      22       22       22       22       22       22       22       22       22       22       22       22       22
Credit for working capital 7/             5        6        7       5        3        2        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
(2)     Subtotal                             166      222      282      280     278      277      275      275      275      275      275      275      275      275      275
(3)  Payment to Farmers 8/                   736   1,116   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504   1,504
Total Expenditure [(2)+(3)]         902   1,338   1,786   1,784   1,782   1,781   1,779   1,779   1,779   1,779   1,779   1,779   1.779   1.779   1.779
(4)  Surplus [(1)-(3)]                        12       34       44      47        50      53       56       59       62       65       68       71       75       78       82
Cumulative surplus                       12      46       90      137      187      240      296      355      1X17     482      550      621      696      77T      856
1/  Sales income based on average price of Tk 112 per maund and 8,000 maunds throughput in year 1, 12,000 in year 2 and 16,000 from year 3 onwards.
2/  Interest rates payable by farmers for jute credit based on an 80% advance of the minimum price (assumed to be Tk 90 per maund) for 3 months at
13% interest.
3/  Interest on surplus revenue - 5% for 6 months each year up to Tk 220,000 being seasonal working capital requirements and 5% per annum for the
balance.
4/ Rent based on: a. Repayment of construction cost of Tk 240,000 over 15 years at 5.5% interest with Tk 12,000 payable
in year 1, Tk 18,000 in year 2 and Tk 25,000 from year 3 onwards.
b. Building insurance Tk 10,000 a year.
c. Repairs at Tk 2,000 a year from year 3 onwards.
5/  Baling cost - Tk 11 per maund (Appendix 1).
6/  Interest payable on jute purchasing credit based on 80% advance of Tk 90 per maund at 7.5% over 3 months.
7/  Credit for working capital based on half management, establishment and rent costs and full baling costs at 7.5% interest for 6 months.  Cost                              >
amount to: year 1 - Tk 120,000, year 2 - Tk 165,000, year 3 onwards - Tk 215,000.
8/ Payment to farmers based on the following price per maund: year 1 - Tk 92.00, year 2 - Tk 93.00, year 3 onwards - Tk 94.00.
July 15, 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Organization
Project Agencies
1.        Project agencies, their main activities and controlling ministries
are listed in Appendix I. Coordination at national level would be by the
project coordination committee and at zonal level by zonal committees, as
described in the main report paras 4.01 and 4.02. The organization structure
is illustrated on Charts 2 and 3; WB 17096 and WB 17337. The first of the
charts shows the organizational pattern with the Directorate of Agriculture
(Jute) (DAJ) channeling credit directly from Sonali Bank, to farmers and the
second chart applies when village cooperatives become the credit channel.
Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
2.        This Directorate would be the main project executing agency and
would be concerned with every project activity. DAJ would be responsible
for a large staff recruitment (about 2350 total new staff including about
830 technical and senior administrative staff) and training program, the
construction program, the purchase of vehicles and equipment and at the same
time for improving its services to jute farmers and doubling the area under
the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS). The following paragraphs will
describe DAJ's proposed headquarters and field staffing plans and organi-
zation.
DAJ Headquarters (Chart No. 4, WB 17095)
3.        The chief officer of DAJ would be the Director of Agriculture
(Jute) who could report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture. The
Director would be responsible for policy matters, overall supervision of
all DAJ activities and would be the officer entitled to incur expenditure
on behalf of the project. He would be assisted by an Additional Director,
two internationally recruited advisors and the following headquarters units
or staff: Administration and Finance Unit, Technical Unit, Marketing Unit
and a Building Engineer. All other units and staff would report to the
Additional Director. The latter would be the chief project executing officer
inter alia responsible for planning project operations (by drawing up annual
plans with quarterly targets), ensuring plan implementation, preparing annual
and quarterly expenditure estimates, ensuring release of funds and liaison
with other ministries. He would be supported by an internationally recruited
project management advisor who would assist with all aspects of project



ANNEX 6
Page 2
management. He should be appointed as soon as possible for a two year
period and should start work not later than 9 - 10 months after credit
signature. The marketing advisor should also be selected as soon as pos-
sible to start work not later than July, 1978; he would also be required
for two years. Suggested qualifications and terms of reference for the
two advisors are shown in Appendix 2.
4.        New headquarters staff should be appointed as early as possible
and should all be operational within 9 - 10 months of credit signature.
However special efforts must be made to appoint the following key staff
on a priority basis, to ensure early and effective execution of project
recruitment, procurement and construction programs: the Director, the
Additional Director of Agriculture, the Senior Administration Officer, the
Senior Finance Officer and the Building Engineer. They should all be in
their posts within 3 months of credit signature and preferably earlier. The
administrative/finance unit would be controlled by the Senior Administration
Officer and would deal with all staff finance, procurement, tenders, contracts,
etc. matters. This unit would also prepare expenditure estimates, would be
responsible for regular and adequate replenishment of the project revolving
fund and would prepare withdrawal applications. Terms of reference for senior
staff for this and other headquarters units and for technical field staff are
given in Appendix 3.
5.        The most senior of the technical specialists would be in charge of
the technical unit. This would provide technical guidance to DAJ staff,
participate in staff training, lia:Lse with research services and design the
field trial/demonstration programs. The training officer of this unit would
be responsible for designing, arranging and monitoring the various training
programs.
6.        The building engineer would not have permanent career prospects
with DAJ and would therefore be deputed from a GOB engineering department -
for instance the Public Works Department. He should be a senior executive
engineer--and would be responsible for guiding the Additional Director and
the Administrative Officer on all construction matters (designs, drawings,
tender proposals, and evaluation, awarding contracts, purchasing land,
supervising construction and payment of suppliers and contracts).
7.        The senior marketing officer would be in charge of the marketing
unit and together with the marketing advisor (para 3) would be responsible
for designing the trial marketing scheme. This would involve deciding on
optimal size of each unit, feasibility of loose jute versus baled jute
marketing, (Annex 5, Part II), design and construction of marketing facil-
ities, and establishment of marketing procedures. The unit would need to
employ staff for managing and operating jute stores and with help from the
Administration/Finance unit, the institution expert and Sonali Bank would
design recording and accounting systems and train operating staff in their
use.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Field Services
8.        Initially the field services would continue to operate as in the
past (Annex 2 B). The area covered by IJCS would be expanded from 0.5 mil-
lion acres to I million acres over four years and the existing 9 zones and
250 units would be increased to 20 zones and 500 units covering 50,000 and
2,000 acres jute respectively as at present. The number of jute blocks would
remain at 2,500, but the area of each block would be doubled from 200 acres
before project start to 400 acres. This would be a gradual process to be
phased in line with expansion of the project area and would in many instances
involve amalgamation of two existing blocks or Jute Farmers Associations.
9.        New posts for field services to be established for the project would
be those of a Deputy Assistant Director of Agriculture (DADA) and two subject
matter specialists (SMS) at each zonal office and of an Input Supply Officer
(ISO) at each unit office. DADA would share with ADA the task of managing 25
jute units and would be mainly concerned with field supervision by touring on
a fixed monthly schedule. SMS would improve staff training, provide technical
backup to field staff and initiate a field trials/demonstration prggram.
10.       ISO would relieve JEO and to some extent JEA of administrative
work arising from supplying farmers with credit, inputs and implements and
the need to keep unit records and prepare unit reports. This would be an
entirely new post in the Department of Agriculture and training and works
procedures would have to be established. Consequently, initial recruit-
ment would be modest (confined to 100) in the first project year. Priority
for posting would be given to areas where jute block size had been increased
to 400 acres and where the initial jute marketing trials are planned. In
areas where there would be no ISO initially, JEO and JEA would continue to
carry out administrative work as in the past, but by early 1979 there would
be an ISO for each unit.



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 1
BAIGLADESH
JUTB PROJECT
Prolect Agencies and their Project Related Activities
Agency                 Ministry                    Project Activity
Directorate of       Agriculture      a.  Employment, training management of
Agriculture                               staff;
(Jute) (DAJ)
b. Employment of project advisors;
c. Hiring of evaluation unit;
d. Purchase of transport, implements
and equipment;
e. Construction of houses and Jute
godowns;
f . Arranging overseas training;
g. Onlending production and marketing
credit to farmers;
IL. Arranging supply of fertilizers and
pesticides;
i. Organizing Jute Farmers Associations;
Providing extension services to
farmers;
k~. Conducting jute marketing for farm-
ers; and
1. Preparing credit withdrawal applica-
tions.
Sonali Bank               -          a.  Lending short term production and mar-
keting credit to DAJ and to village
cooperatives;
b. Paying BADC for fertilizer supplied
on credit;
c. Packaging and delivering cash credit
to farmers;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page z
Agency                 Ministry                     Project Activity
d. Training DAJ staff;
e. Assisting with loan appraisal, moni-
toring and recovery;
f. Assisting with supervision and manage-
ment of marketing credit; and
g. Preparing credit withdrawal applica-
tions.
Thana Central Co-   Local govern-   a.  Onlending production and marketing
operative Associa-  ment, Rural           credit to jute farmers in selected
tions (TCCAs) and   development           thanas;
Village Coopera-    and Coopera-
tive (KSS) Jute      tives            b.  Organizing inputs supply for jute
Blocks                                    farmers in the same thanas; and
c. Conducting trial jute marketing in
selected thanas.
Ministry of Jute    Jute              a.  Assisting in training DAJ staff
in jute marketing, particularly
grading.
Bangladesh Jute      Jute                 Producing, processing jute seed and
Research Insti-                           supplying it to DAJ at district or
tute (BJRI)                               thana level.
Seeds Directorate
BJRI                 Jute             a.  Providing technical information based
Agricultural                              on research results;
Research
Directorate                           b.  Participating in planning and eval-
uating DAJ's field trials and demon-
strations; and
c. Participating in DAJ's staff training
program.
Bangladesh           Agriculture          Supplying fertilizers to jute farmers.
Agricultural
Development
Corporation



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 3
Agency                 Ministry                     Project Activity
Plant Protection    Agriculture            Supplying of pesticides and sprayers
Directorate                                to jute farmers at thana level.
Jute Farmers              -           a.  Fostering cooperation of members for
Association                                jute production;
b.  Assist DAJ to:
i. Plan jute production;
ii. Assess credit and inputs require-
ments;
iii. Distribute, monitor and recover
credit;
iv. Organize extension activities;
v. Organize sharing of implements; and
vi. Organize jute marketing.
April 2, 1977



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Advisors
Project Management Advisor
1.   Duties
The advisor would assist the Additional Director of the Directorate
of Agriculture (Jute) with all aspects of the Jute Project. Specifically, he
would assist with the following:
(a) Preparation of an annual work plan;
(b) Recruitment and training of staff;
(c) Preparation of tender documents and bid evaluation;
(d) Supervision of the construction program and implemen-
tation of other project components, with particular
emphasis on credit aspects and trial jute marketing;
(e) Development of reporting systems and preparation
of progress reports; and
(f) Development of management policies and organizational
structure necessary for effective project implemen-
tation.
2.   Qualifications
The advisor should have a master's degree in agriculture or agri-
cultural economics or other relevant subjects with at least five years'
experience of the management of integrated crop production and marketing
schemes involving smallholding cooperative systems in a developing country.
3.   Period of Assignment
The assignment would be for 24 months. The advisor to be appointed
by January 1, 1978, should take up his post by May 1978.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 2
Marketing Advisor
To assist the Additional Director of Agriculture and the marketing
unit with all aspects of the trial jute marketing scheme, in particular with
the following:
(a) Determining the type of marketing operation (loose
jute or katcha baled) and level of operation (block
or unit);
(b) Selecting sites for facilities;
(c) Designing suitable structures;
(d) Devising the marketing organization and marketing
procedures;
(e) Training of staff and farmers;
(f) Designing reporting accounting and market intelligence
systems;
(g) Helping in preparing progress reports;
(h) Supervising construction of facilities and of the
marketing; and
(i) Redesign of structures, policies or procedures in
light of operating experience.
5.   Qualifications
University degree in agriculture, agricultural economics or rele-
vant commercial subject with at least ten years' experience of successfully
organizing and managing smallholder marketing operations by cooperatives or
farmers' associations in developing countries. Must speak and write English
fluently.
6.   Period of Assignment
The appointment would be for 24 months starting in July 1978 to
allow the advisor to monitor operations over the first year (the appointment
should be made by May 1, 1978). The next twelve months would then be dis-
tributed over the following two or three years, enabling the advisor to test
modifications during successive marketing seasons.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Guidelines for Duties and Qualifications of DAJ Staff
Chief Administrative Officer
1.   Duties
(a)  Managing administrative unit by supervising finance
and establishment sections and administrative work
of field offices;
(b)  Preparing and evaluating tenders, preparing contracts,
supervising deliveries and services, ensuring prompt
payment;
(c)  Opening promptly letters of credit for overseas pur-
chases and preparing project withdrawal documentation
for prompt submission to the Director of Agriculture
(Jute);
(d)  Preparing project financing plan, expenditure fore-
casts and ensuring replenishment of project revolving
fund;
(e)  Designing accounting and financial reporting of all
sections of the Directorate of Agriculture (Jute) with
particular reference to recording credit and jute mar-
keting transactions;
(f)  Maintaining project accounts;
(g)  Through the audit unit carrying out continuous moni-
toring of accounts of field offices, particularly
their credit and marketing records;
(h)  Dealing with policy and administrative aspects of
all staff matters including recruiting, training,
posting, promoting, etc. and assisting with those
activities as required by the Director DAJ; and
(i) Preparing reports on administrative and financial
aspects of the project.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 2
2.   Qualifications
Senior administration officer (with rank at least equal to Assis-
tant Director of Agriculture) with considerable experience of finance, pro-
curement and staff management. Either he or the finance officer should
have considerable experience in overseas procurement procedures and in
dealing with letters of credit.
Senior Accountant
3.   Duties
Would manage and supervise the finance section of the administra-
tive unit. Duties would be the same as financial duties of Chief Adminis-
trative Officer.
4.   Qualifications
Senior financial officer (equivalent to Assistant Director of
Agriculture level) with considerable experience in designing departmental
accounting, supervising audit work and preferably experienced in handling
letters of credit.
Technical Specialists (Agronomy, Plant Protection)
5.   Duties
(a)  Planning work for field services;
(b) Liaising with BJRI staff;
(c) In conjunction with BJRI staff planning field
trials and demonstration program. Supervising
these programs;
(d) Participating in planning staff and farmer train-
ing programs and participa,ting in training ADA,
SMS and JEO;
(e)  Formulating technical recommendations for field
staff; and
(f) Paying frequent field visits to assist zonal SMS
conduct their programs.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 3
6.   Qualifications
Minimum qualification is master's degree in the requisite spe-
cialty and at least five years' field experience.
Extension Specialist
7.   Duties
(a) Determining extension materials for use by field staff;
(b) Preparing of literature, charts, posters and radio pro-
grams;
(c) Participating in training senior staff and in preparing
training manuals and course material for training JEA.
8.   Qualifications
At least a master's degree in agricultural extension with at least
five years' field experience.
Training Specialist
9.   Duties
(a) Determining training requirements of all staff upon
first appointment and for subsequent continuous in-
service training;
(b) Arranging necessary training including longer term
training for JEA and special basic training for
ISO;
(c) Participating in training headquarters technical
specialists, ADA, SMS and JEO to conduct training
of JEA; and
(d) Collaborating with extension specialist to provide
teaching aids.
10. Qualifications
University degree in agricultural education and at least five
years' experience of conducting agricultural training programs.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 4
Marketing Officer
11. Duties
He would have the same duties as those described for the Marketing
Advisor (Appendix 2, para. 4).
12. Qualifications
Preferably a university degree in economics or commerce or related
subject. Must have at least ten years' experience of managing a jute mar-
keting organization.
Zonal Assistant Director of AgricuLture
13.       Responsible for planning, administering and supervising all activ-
ities of DAJ in his zone, normally comprising about 50,000 acres jute culti-
vation. With assistance from Headqjuarters staff and his subject matter spe-
cialists (SMS) planning and organizing staff and farmers training programs.
Would be the executive chairman of the zonal coordinating committee respon-
sible for liaising with and coordinating the services of supporting agencies
in particular those responsible for credit and inputs supplies. Also respon-
sible for coordinating zonal records and submitting regular monthly and quar-
terly progress reports. His office would have charts showing the planned
work program and location of each JEO, ISO and JEA for each day of the
month.
Deputy Assistant Director of AgricuLlture (Deputy ADA)
14.       Would be responsible for assisting his ADA in all duties, but
would be particularly concerned with field supervision. Would tour on a
fixed schedule to ensure that either he or his ADA visit each Jute Extension
Officer (JEO) at least once a month. The Deputy ADA should be given minimal
administration duties.
Sublect Matter Specialist (SMS)
15. Duties
(a) Training JEO and participating in training JEA;
(b) Liaising with local staff of BJRI;
(c) Conducting through JEA field demonstrations and
field trials, recording and evaluating results
and proposing modifications in technical recom-
mendations if necessary. Visiting each trial/
demonstration regularly;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 5
(d) Training extension staff in advising the farmers on
proper and safe use of insecticides and pesticides;
(e) Assisting JEO and JEA in holding field days at
trial/demonstration sites;
(f) Organizing pest monitoring services, training JEA
and farmers for the purpose; and
(g) Checking availability of adequate and suitable pesti-
cides in thana stores of the Plant Protection
Directorate.
16. Qualifications
Master's degree in agronomy or plant protection.
Jute Extension Officer (JEO)
17.       Would supervise DAJ activities in a Jute Unit (5 blocks) including
organizing (or reorganizing) Jute Farmers' Associations round a 400-acre
jute block. Appointment of ISO would relieve him of administrative duties
so that he can spend most of his time visiting jute blocks on a fixed sched-
ule of visits. Would supervise and support JEA and would be expected to know
most Jute farmers personally. Would be responsible for organizing training
and work plan for his JEA and his office would have copies of each JEA's
training and visit schedule. The JEO would be responsible for checking
records maintained by ISO particularly with regard to progress of opera-
tions, achievement of targets and those relating to credit and marketing
activities. He would also be responsible for submitting fortnightly reports,
for which ISO would prepare data.
Input Supply Officer (ISO)
18. Duties
(a) Carrying out administrative duties of unit;
(b) Ensuring fertilizer and pesticides supplies to
farmers;
(c) Collecting applications for credit prepared by
farmers and JEA;
(d) Organizing distribution of fertilizer, pesticides,
sprayers, farm equipment and credit;
(e) Organizing credit recovery;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 6
(f)  Maintaining credit and interest records;
(g) Ensuring the recording, storing and proper main-
taining of equipment;
(h)  Assisting in the trial marketing operation, in
case of possible marketing operations at block
level assisting with management, record keeping
and accounting for the operation; and
(i) Preparing all unit reports.
19. Qualifications
Should hold commerce degree or could be recruited from outstanding
JEA.
Jute Extension Assistants
20. Duties
(a) Organizing farmers block into eight groups;
(b) Choosing contact farmers;
(c) Visiting and training each group once every two
weeks and training farmers according to prescribed
program and maintaining visits diary;
(d) Attending training once every two weeks and report-
ing farmers' problems, and other problems encoun-
tered;
(e) Monitoring pest incidence;
(f) Conducting at least one field trial or demonstra-
tion each year;
(g) Maintaining block records with respect to improved
seed use, line sowing, fertilizer use, pest con-
trol, etc.;
(h) Conducting crop cutting - supervised by JEO;
(i) With assistance from Jute Farmers' Associations
(JFA) Committee compiling inputs and credit require-
ment lists and assisting ISO as necessary with com-
pletion by farmers of loan application and with
distribution of inputs and cash credits;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 7
(j) Maintaining and repairing implements; and
(k) Attending meetings of JFA and providing it with
constant help and encouragement.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BINGLADESH
JU_E PROJECT
Monitorirg and Evaluation
General
1.        It is, important that project implementation be closely monitored
and that the impact on production and farm incomes be thoroughly evaluated.
The lessons derived from this project should also prove very valuable for a
future repeater project.
2.        Given the project's fundainental objectives, monitoring should con-
sist of a process of timely data gathering and analysis on the gradual build-
ing up of the organization and on tIie quality of the performance of the
project's staff. Its purpose is to ensure that the entire IJCS apparatus
is fulfilling the functions for which it was established. The project's
evolution through the execution and operation phases, i.e. project's inputs
and project's activities and outputs, should be monitored against the
schedules, targets and expectations defined at the start.
3.        Evaluation of the project, to be carried out during project imple-
mentation, should assess the overall impact of the project on crop yield
levels and on the beneficiaries welfare. The evaluation should also deter-
mine the degree to which the project is reaching the economic, technical
and social targets set for agriculttral development. It has to assess the
comparative effectiveness of the technological practices recommended for
extension and the changes in farmers' production behavior. It should be
conducive to improvements of the program and, if necessary, should include
recommendations for modifications to the project.
A. Monitoring
4.        The UNDP Extension Project has already started discussions with
the Ministry of Agriculture in redesigning the reporting forms for extension
activities, and the IDA supported Rural Development Project (Cr. 631) has
initiated an intensive monitoring and evaluation exercise in the seven project
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh districts.
Project Activities
5.        If records and books are kf:pt accurately and up-to-date by exten-
sion staff or statistical agents, Jute Extension Officers (JEOs) need only
monitor key elements of the various project components. The monitoring



ANNEX 7
Page 2
system would, therefore, be built into the regular progress reports of the
JEOs and other project officers. These reports would in turn be used for
the quarterly and annual reports to IDA. Monitoring will pay particular
attention to two aspects of project implementation. The first is GOB
appropriation of funds to the project agencies, including conformity of the
amounts to the approved PP and timeliness with regard to project needs;
this aspect would be monitored by the Senior Accountant of DAJ. The second
is the execution of project works and its conformity with proposed criteria
and procedures; this aspect would be the responsibility of JEAs, ISOs and
JEOs.
6.        The monitoring and evaluation system should use a limited number
of selected indicators, which would reflect the essential agronomic, economic
and sociological dimensions of the project. The indicators should revolve
around three key concentration points: (a) the visits (quantitative and
qualitative aspects); (b) the adoption of recommendations; and (c) the yields.
For the institution building objectives of the projects, the main monitoring
indicators suggested are: staffing of the extension organizations; selection
of contact farmers; training; and physical equipment. For monitoring extension
performance, the suggested indicators are: degree of exposure to extension;
visit performance; farmers' evaluation of IJCS; adoption rates of new prac-
tices; and quality of training sessions. Formats would be simplified to
present only monthly targets and achievements to minimize time spent on
report preparation. A final list of items to be monitored for each project
component would be prepared by DAJ as a part of the IDA project reporting
requirements.
7.        Since zonal and district coordination committees would review the
reports of all the project participants, they would be directly informed of
the problems or delays and would propose actions to overcome them. DAJ
would compile quarterly reports of the various project components. This
information, along with data on procurement, expenditure and disbursement
would be included in the quarterly progress report sent to IDA.
B. Evaluation
8.        While project monitoring would follow the implementation of the
project, the evaluation would assess the impact of the various project com-
ponents on farm level production, the rural population, and agricultural
services.
9.        Overall project evaluation would be the responsibility of the Plan-
ning Cell of the Ministry of Agriculture. Since this will require varied
expertise, it would be difficult in the short term to assemble in the Plan-
ning Cell an independent group with such broad competence. The evaluation
exercise would, therefore, be contracted to a local socio-economic research
organization or a university under the supervision of the Planning Cell.
Detailed terms of reference will be prepared by Planning Cell for IDA's
review. Draft TORs are given in the Appendix.



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Project Evaluation
Introduction
1.        The Project, on a pilot basis, aims to integrate production and
marketing at the growers' level, for the first time in Bangladesh. A close
and continuous evaluation of this operation is essential to ensure the Proj-
ect's successful implementation. The objective of such a service will be
to collect, scientifically, basic data to assess the implementation of the
Project and make recommendations, if necessary, to improve its effectiveness.
Major areas to be covered are outlined below:
Survey
2.        Three surveys will be conducted.  Their main components are:
Survey I - to be conducted between end-February/end-
March and will provide analyzed information on such
major aspects as the number of Jute Farmers' Associa-
tions and KSS Jute Blocks in existence and their mem-
bership; size of holdings of member-farmers, KSS Jute
Blocks management aspects, total land area planted
under jute and projected total production, credit
demand and arrangements for supply of credit and
other inputs.
Survey II - to be conducted shortly after harvest
(early July to mid-August) and will provide analyzed
information on such aspects as jute yield/acre, re-
vised total estimated production, price forecast,
production cost, number of farmers applying line-
sowing, fertilizer, etc., problems in obtaining
inputs and credit, including machinery, assessment
of effectiveness of the Extension Service and IJCS
personnel, review of Farmers' Associations' role,
review of KSS Jute Blocks management, in particular
their accounts and records, etc.
Survey III - to be conducted end-December to end-
January and will concentrate on the marketing aspects
of the Project.  Specifical]y it will evaluate the
effectiveness of the marketing facilities in obtain-
ing higher prices and reducing marketing costs for



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 2
the national economy, management and operation of
project jute marketing, records and accounts main-
tained for the operation, marketing procedures,
suitability of facilities, farmers' participation,
prices received by farmers who use project facili-
ties and by those who use other channels. It will
also include a complete evaluation of the Project's
operations and make recommendations for any modi-
fications or improvements. Project marketing may
not start until the second year of project imple-
mentation. Until then the survey should investi-
gate prices received by jute growers.
Survey Methodology
3.        After the contract has been signed between the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and the Consulting Organization and before commencing work, the consult-
ants will outline detailed methodology, including questionnaires to be used
for collecting data, the sample size, etc. This will be reviewed by IDA.
4.        In Survey I, it might be useful to include at least 20% of the
existing Farmers' Associations of which 20%, again, should be selected for
field interview. The remainder would be analyzed on the basis of the records
maintained for each block. Of the Farmers' Associations (including KSS Jute
Blocks) selected for field interview, only 20% of the members would be inter-
viewed.
5.        In Survey III, since the number of marketing facilities provided
to the Farmers' Associations will be limited, at least in the initial stages,
100% coverage would be desirable, but a reasonable sample for investigating
price received by farmers using other channels would have to be determined.
6.        These are, of course, merely guidelines.  Actual details should
be worked out by the consulting organization. The objective of the Surveys
should be to collect data to reflect the actual situation.
Reports and Review
7.        After the completion of each Survey, an evaluation report should
be presented to the Planning Cell of the Ministry of Agriculture to be sub-
mitted to the Project Coordination Committee. A copy of the report, together
with the Minutes of the Decision taken at the meeting, should be forwarded
to IDA for review.



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 3
Consultants' Staff Requirements
8.        To undertake the monitoring and evaluation, the consulting_team
should consist of the following:
Description                                       No.
(i)  Senior Statistician                                       1
(ii)  Senior Economist                                          1
(iii)  Junior Economists                                         2
(iv)  Financial Analysts                                        2
Description  -                                    No.
(v)  Credit Specialists                                        2
(vi)  Accountants                                               2
(vii)  lIarketing Experts                                        2
(viii)  Agriculturalist                                           1
(ix)  Interviewers                                            100
Cost
9.        It is estimated that the cost of such monitoring and evaluation
service will be about US$35,000 per year. The consultants will provide such
service for each of the five years of the Project's implementation.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1.        The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) had prepared implementation
schedules which aimed at project completion in three years; GOB is in fact
hopeful that they would be able to achieve their target in an even shorter
time. However, because of the long time which, experience has shown, is
needed to appoint staff and advisers in the first year and to initiate a
building program, and initial unfamiliarity of project officials with pro-
curement procedures, a five year implementation period was considered safer.
2.        The rate of expanding the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS)
would govern the speed of most project activities such as staff recruitment,
purchase of equipment and provision of farmers' credit. In addition, the
project would provide additional staff, housing and vehicles for the ongoing
scheme and this represents a major recruitment, construction and procurement
program during the first project year. Consequently, only modest expansion of
IJCS areas is projected during 1977/78. The total project area of 1 million
acres jute has been scheduled to be covered by IJCS over four years as follows:
YEAR:                   1977     1978      1979     1980       1981       1982
Acres Jute
Covered by IJCS:      500,000  550,000  650,000  800,000  1,000,000  1,000,000
However, this schedule should not be taken to rule out faster implementation.
3.        Staff recruitment and all project expenditure would be completed
over four years, except for financing construction of housing for Jute Ex-
tension Assistants, which would require a further year. The project would,
in addition, continue to finance monitoring services and extension staff in
the fifth year.
4.        Identification of house sites and subsequent land purchases would
be the main constraint to the JEA houses construction program. Each time
the area under IJCS expands, new jute blocks are established - one per 400
acres jute. This process usually takes place in October, in readiness for
jute sowing in the following March. One JEA is attached to each block and
his house would be situated in a village of the block. The site of a JEA
house can only be determined after the block has been formed. Based on the
IJCS expansion program (para. 2) and allowing a year to select and purchase
house sites and place contracts and five months construction time, construc-
tion would not be completed until early 1982.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Cost estimates (Annex 9) show phasing of expenditure.  The same
information giving mainly physical implementation projections is given in
Table 1 and a bar graph schedule; Chart 1. Some of the more important proj-
ect activities are shown in greater detail in the following schedules:
Schedule 1 - Recruitment of Headquarters Staff.
Schedule 2  -  Recruitment of ADA, Deputy ADA, SMS.
Schedule 3  -  Recruitment of JEO and ISO.
Schedule 4  -  Recruitment of Consultants.
Schedule 5  -  Transport Equlipment Procurement.
Schedule 6  -  Implements Procurement.
Schedule 7 - Construction.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project                             Financial Year
Activity                                        Total         1978         1979         1980         1981          1982
1.  Coverage of Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme (acres)                               1,000,000       550,000      650,000      800,000   1,000,000   1,000,000
2.  Staff Recruitment (number)
a. Head Office
Professional staff                                14           14            -             -
Supporting staff                                  28           28            -            _            _            _
42           42            -            ---
b. Zonal Offices
ADA                                               11            4            3             4            -            -
DADA                                              20           13            3             4            -            -
SMS                                               40           26            6             8            -            -
Supporting staff                                 236          103           57            76            -           _
307          146           69           92            -             -
c. Unit Offices
JEO                                              250          100            -          150             -            -
ISO                                              500          100          200          200             -            -
Supporting Staff                               1,250          125          250          315           500            -
2,000          325          450          725           500            -
3.  Transport (number)
Motor vehicles                                       34           27             3            4            -            -
Motor cycles                                      1,060          489          209           362
Bicycles 1/                                       2,500        2,500             -            -            -            -
4.  JEA Houses (number)                               2,500             -          600          700          700           500
5.  Office Furniture (sets)                              250           25           50           75          100             -
6.  Research and Extension Supplies (TkV/           800,000      120,000      128,000       158,000      197,000      197,000
7.  Equipment (number)
Seed drills                                      25,000        1,000        6,000        8,000       10,000             -
Hand hoes                                        20,000        1,000        5,000        6,000         8,000            -
8.  Consultants (manmonths)
Directorate of Agriculture (jute)                    78             6           24           12            6            _
9.  Overseas Training (manweeks)                          48            -           24           24            -             -
10.  Monitoring Cost (Tk)2/                        2,362,500      262,500       525,000      525,000      525,000      525,000
11.  Jute Marketing Sheds Construction (number)            50            -           10           10           30             -
12.  Short-term Credit (Tk)2/
Production                                 125,000,000  20,000,000  30,000,000  40,000,000  35,000,000
Marketing                                    30.000,000            -   6,000,000   6,000,000  18.000,000                -
155,000,000  20,000,000  36,000,000  46,000,000  53,000,000                  -
1/ For 2,500 JEA who have already been recruited.
2/ Without contingencies.
April 2, 1977



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Recruitment Schedule for Headquarters Staff
Agencies                         1977                           1978
Activities                                      Responsible         J    A    S    0    N    D    J    F    M    A    M    J
11  2/  3/
a) Submission of proposals                      x
b) Government Sanction                              x
c) Advertisement by PSC/Ministry                    x   x
d) Appointment of Selection Committee               x   x
ej Lnter.vLews                                  x   x   x
f) Appointment                                  x        x
g) Training                                     x
h) Posting                                      x
Type of Staff Members:
Director of Agriculture                         1                   Engineer                         1
Additional Director of Agriculture              1                   Technical Specialists             3
ADA (Supervision)                               2                   Marketing Officer                 1
Administrative Officer                          1                   Auditor                           1
Financial Officer                               1                   Draftsman                         1
Agencies Responsible
1/  Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)                                                                                      S
2/  Ministry of Agriculture                                                                                                 c 
3/  Public Service Commission                                                                                                 o



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Recruitment Schedule for ADA, DADA. SMS
Agencies      ------    1977-----------   ------------------1978-----------------------               ___________________-1979---------------___
Activities     Responsible                                 J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   0   N   D   J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   0   N   D
a) Submission
of Proposals   x
b) Government
Sanction            x
c) Advertising
by PSC/Ministry     x    x
d) Appointment
of Selection
Committee           x
e) Interviews  x    x    x
f) Appointment x         x
g) Training    x
h) Posting     x
NUMBERS:       ADA                    4                                                         3                                             4
DADA                 13                                                          3                                             4
SMS                  26                                                         6                                              8
AGENCIES RESPONSIBLE:
1/ Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
2/ Ministry of Agriculture
3/ Public Service Commission
0N
November 14, 1977                                                                                                                                       (



BANGLADESH{
JUTE PROJECT
Recruitment Schedule for JEO and ISO
Agencies------------1977 ----------- -----------19781---------- ----------- 979----------- -----------19-80------
Activities        R  2pible                                     J   A   S   0   N   D   J    F   M5   A    Ml J                    S                                                                                                                            N       5    4 3           0 2 F 9 A 5  I A S 0 S 
of Proposal       m
b) Ouvrsset
Sanction 
c) Advertise-
ment sO PSC/
d) Appointmet
Of SLeletton
Cumsittee by
PSC                           m
e) Interviews   c         
f) Appointoeotm               o
g) Training 
h) Posting        m
N5IMERmS:                                       10
.250  155                                    --                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                       150
ISO                                     --                                       100                                                             200                                                   200
AGENC IES RESPONSIBLE!
1/ Djr.retsrte sf Agricuture  (lots)
2/ Ministry of Agriculture
3/ public Service Cueriusion
No-b-r 14, 1977 



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Recruitment and Service Schedule for Project and Marketing Advisors
Agencies        ----      1978_________                                                                            ______- ------------------  ___1979  ------ 1980-------  ----------------1981---------------
Activities          Responsible    J   F  M   A  M   J   J    A   S   0   N   D                                      (Jan. 1979 througnhe-b. 1981)  H   A   M   J   J   _   S   0   N   D
1/   2/   3/            -     -    -   -   -
TOR Preparation    x
Ministry Revifw          x
IDA Review                    x
Advertisement       x
Selection          x
Ministry Review          x
IDA Review                    x
Appointment         x
Service Period
Project Advisor
Marketing Advisor
AGENCIES RESPONSIBLE:
1. Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
2. Ministry of Agriculture
3. IDA
November 14, 1977
F-
fD



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Transport Prorureneot Scbedule
Activities                            -=----Resuibe   INITIATION _-A __  0____ -- --     A                       F 2     A   M   3   I   A   S   C  N   0   5  F   N   A   1   .           A   S       N            F      A   14
1'2// 4/
a) Tender Prepara-
tion                 x x
b) IDADRview 
c) Advertising       x
d) Tender Evalu-
tton                 xC x
e) IDA Review              x
f) Flctong Orders/
Opening L/C          x
g) Delivery                  x
h) Distribution      x
TYPE & NUMBERS: Motor Car
Mi ni Bus 
Four-Wheel Drive                    15                               3                                            4
Motor Cycle                        489                              709                                          362
Bycycle                          2,500
Speed Bead                          10
Ageeries Responsible:
1/ Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
2/ Ministry of Agriculturs
3/ IDA
4/ Supplier
Nove-ehr 14,1977



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Implement Procurement Schedule
Agencies       ------1977------  --------------1978--------------1- --------------1979----------------                             1980-------1980-----------------  ------------1981
Activities    Responsible                  INITIATION --------- -    J  A  S  O  N  D  J  F  M  A  M  J  J  A  S O    N  D  J  F  M  A  M  J  J  A  S                   N  D  J  F  M  A  M  J
I/ 2/ 3/ 4/
a) Tender
Preparation   x       x
b) IDA Review         x
c) Advertis-
ing            x
d) Tender
Evaluation        x
f) Ordering   x_
g) Delivery              x
h) Distribu-
tion           x.
EQUIPMENT TYPE & NUMBERS: Seed Drills   1,000                        6,000                                            8,000                                   10,000
Hand Hoes      1,000                    5,000                                            6,000                                    8,000
AGENCIES RESPONSIBLE:
1/ Directorate of Agriculture
2/ Ministry of Agriculture
3/ IDA
4/ Supplier                                                                                                                                                                       n
N),e1ber 14, 1977



BANGILADESR
JUTE PROJECT
Conatrs,tlo. Schedule
Agenc.ies
Ai.iiAg.Role  ounible---- 19 77-----------0979 ------- -- --------19791--------------- 980                                                                                     1------    ------- 98-1------            -1--    ----9812----
E/    2  /b 4    /6-        --------NITIATION A-S-0----------A  -A                          WS  0  N  D  J                       F  NM  A M   3  3  A S  0    N  D  3DPJN  AAMJJ -SO -J-MA J-A  S  0N  D  3  F  MASS   3 
1. Consultant
Preparation of
IDA Review 
.vrti.Sig         e
Evaluat ion       n   s
IDA Review 
Appoiete,et       o   n
Prep:rat ion
Ministry Review 
SEA Review 
AppreVal          o   s
3. Lend P.rchsee
Loc.elities Spe-
Site Identifi-
Site.ucas           
4. Materials Pro-
curemet
Qu..ntities Pro-
peration 
Lender~ Prepara-
IDA Review
Advertising       xn
Tender Evelua-
Ministry Review 
DIA Reviewn
Placement of
Orders           al           s        a/
Delivery          n                                                                       _  _ _ _  _ _                         _  _ _  _ _  _                          _ _  _ _  _ _ _  __                     _  _ _  _ _  _ _
5. Cnotruction
Prequalificaticc . 
Tender Prepara-
tion 
MInis-try Review       n
IDA Reve,
Evaluation        c            c
Ministry Review 
SEA Review
Award of Cont-
ract                                   el 5
Construction       el~          r                                                               ______
SEA HOUSES                                                        600                                     700                                    700)                                    5(0
JUTE STORES                                                        1                   10                                                         30 
AGENCIES RESPONSIBLE:
1j/ Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
2/ Ministry of Agricult-r
4/Consultant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
5/Othere 
6/Contractor
!Supervision
Novob-r 14, 0977



ANNEX 9.
BANGLADESH
JUE_ PROJECT
Summary of Proiect Cost Estimates
(Tk '000)
Year        Year         Year         Year         Year        Total              Foreign Exchange
1           2            3            4            5      (Year 1-5)        X.   Tk'000      US$'000
1. Short Term Credit (see Table 2)
Total without contingencies              20,600.0    36,o0o.0      46,000.0    53,000.0         -        155,600.0      32   50,240.0   3,349.33
Physical contingencies
Price contingencies                     l,SO0.0      4,660.0    13,220.0      24,020.0      15,500      58.900.0      32   18,S50.0   1,256,67
Total with contingencies                 22,100.0    40,660.0    59,220.0    77,020.0         15,500     214,500.0      32   69,090.0  4,606.00
II. Market Infrastructure (see Table 3)
Total without contingencies                 -          2,202.0      2,202.0      6,606.0        -         11,010.0      28     3,065.0     204.33
Physical contingencies                    -            205.0        205.0        615.0        -          1,025.0      25       256.0      17.06
Price contingencies                       -            393.2        641.2      2,600.1        -          3,634.5      30    1,060.0       70.67
Total with contingencies                    -          2,800.2      3,048.2      9,821.1        -         15,669.5      28    4,381.0      292.06
III. Implements (see Table 4)
Total without contingencies                 600.0      4,500.0      5,800.0      7,400.0        -         18,500.0       -       -         -
Physical contingencies                    -            -
Price contingencies                        60.0        495.0      1,102.0      2,072.0        -          3,729.0      -        -         -
Total with contingencies                    860.0      4,995.0      6,902.0      9,472.0        -         22,229.0       -
IV. Extension Services
A. Staffing Proposed (see Table 5)
Total including allowances                4,347.78     8,150.82    14,263.14    15,895.14    15,895.14    58,552.02      -
Physical contingencies                    -            -            -
Price contingencies                       264.64       741.13     2,152.07     3,515.41     4,633.95    11,307.20
Total with contingencies                  4,612.42     8,891.95    16,415,21    19.410.55    20,529.09    69,d59.22      -
B. Buildings and Office Eouinent
(see Table 7)
Total without contingencies               1,194.5     22,698.0    26,806.5      26,440.0    17,850.0      94,989.0      26   24,432.0   1,628.8
Physical contingencies                     59.72     2,266.9      2,663.32     2,645.0      1,837.5      9,474.44     26    2,463.0      164.20
Price contingencies                        94.06     4.420.35     8,484.66    11,419.8    10,307.25    34.726.12      26    8,985.0      599.0
Total with contingencies                  1,348.28    29,387.25    37,954.48    40,504.80    29,994.75   139,189.56     26   35,880.0   2,392.0
C. Transport (see Table 8)
Total without contingencies              13,969.0      2,899.0      4,782.0        -            -         21 .650.0     50   10,825.00    721.67
Physical contingencies                    698.5        144.9        239.1        -            -          1,082.5      50       541,25     36.10
Price contingencies                       986.7        334.8        954.0        -            -          2,275.5      50    1,137.75      75.85
Total with contingencies                 15,654.2      3,378.7      5,975.1        -            -         25,008.0      50   12,504.00    833,62
D. Materials and Equipment (see Table 9)
Total without contingencies                 345.00       371.75       458.00       572.00       572.00     2,318.75     37       856.0      57.07
Physical contingencies                     17.25        18.58        22.90        28.60        28.60       115.93     40        46.0       3.07
Price contingencies                        27.16        42.93        91.37       168.16       228.22       557.84     40       223.0      14.86
Total with contingencies                    389.41       433.26       572.27       768.76       828.82     2,992.52     38     1,125.0      75.00
Total (A+Bt 4C+D)
- Without contingencies                19,d56.28    34,119.57    46,309.64    42,907.14    34,317.14   177,509.77     20,  36,113.0   2,407.53
- Physical contingencies                  775.47     2,432.33     2,925.32     2,673.60     1,866.10    10,672.87     2d    3,050.25    203.35
- Price contingencies                   1,372L.5     4.239,21    11,602,10    16,103,37    15,19,.42    40,^66.66     21   10,345.75    680.72
- With contingencies                   22,004.31    42,091,16   60,917.06    60,684.11    51,352.66   237,049.30      21   49,509.00  ?,300.60
7. Technical Assistance (see Table 10)
A. For Directorate of Agriculture             450.OO     1,800.00       900.00       45n,On       -          3,60n.00    1lo    31,6r,ron    24,O.n
B. Overseas Trainig                           -          1,008.75     1,O08.75       -            -          2,017.50     80     1,614.o     107.60
C. Monitoring Saroi.oa                        262.50       525.o0       525.00       525.O0       525.00     2,362.50     -        -           -
Total vithout contirgencies                   712.50     3,333.75     2,433.75       975.00       525.00     7,980,00     65     5,214.00    347.6O
Physical oontirgencies                       35.63       166.68       121.69        48.75        26.25       399,00     65       261.00     17,40
Price contirpencies                          56.10       444.92       465.08       351.25       189.02     156.37       71    1,069.00      71.27
Total with wu±tingenieu                      804.23     3,945.35     3,020.52     1,375.00       74O.27     9,885.37     66     6,544.0o    436.27
GRAND 'N1WrL (I throaph V)
- Without contingencies                  41,968.78    80,155.32    102,745.39  110,888.14    34,842.14   370,599.77     26   94,632.00  6,308.79
- Physical contingencies                    811.10     2,804.06      3,252.01    3,337.35     1,892.35    12,096.87     32    3,567.25    237.81.
- Price contingencies                     2,9d8.66    3.,532.33        10.8 l    4.14, .77      M.M-  1lA.636,53        27    n.34 74. 7,088 33
- With contingencies                     45.768_$4    94.491,71   _            l4807.o   a    67.402,03 -  °.3  17    26            2    .
November 4, 1977



BANGLADESH
Jute Project
Short - Term Credit
Cost Estimates
(TK'000)
 -----Schedule of Expenditure ------
Total       Foreign
------------------Years------------------    Cost           Exchange
1        2         3        4         5   Year(l'-5)    %   TK'000
Production 1/                       20,000   30,000   40,000   35,000        -      125,000   40   50,000
Marketing V                            -       6,000    6,000   18,000       -       30,000    -       -
Sprayers 3/                             600      -         -        -        -           600   40       240
Total (without contingencies)       20,600   36,000   46,000   53,000        -      155,600   3    50,240
Contingencies:   Physical 4/          -         -         -        -                  -         -      -
Price 5/            1,500    4,660   13,220   24,020   15,500    58,900   32   18,850
Total (including contingencies)    22,100   40,660   59,220   77,020   15,500   214,500   32   69,090
1/ At TK 250 per acre for 500,000 acres.
Based on:
(a) Data from 1 JCS survey which shlowed that half the jute farmers take production credit.
(b) Financing of total fertilizer requirements as per standard recommendations:
45 Seers of Urea  @ TK 1.50  = 67.50  x
11 Seers of TSP   @ TK 1.20  = 13.20  X  =  96.70 (Say 100)
16 Seers of MP    @ TK 1.00  = 16.00  X
(c)  TK 150 of a total hired labor requirement of TK 900 per acre.
2/  Based on total storage capacity of 800,000 maunds to be financed by the project (See Table    ) a forecast
Government guaranteed jute price of TK 90/maund and a level of marketing credit equal to about 45% of the
Government guaranteed price/maund (800,000 x 90 x 45    about 30,00000)
10
3/  Based on:  (a) Unit cost of Tk 300 per sprayer, (b) Assumption that half of the farmers will require
a credit to purchase one of the total of 20,000 units and that pruchases will be spread equally over
the five year period. (Only the incremental values of credit are given here.)
4/- Physical contingencies not applicable.
5/   Based on commulative total credit.
November 4, 1977



BANQLADESH
Jute Project
Marketing Infrastructure
Cost Estimates
(TKIC000)
--Year 1--   --Year 2--        --Year' 3--     --Year 4--         Total
Unit                                                                      C Cost      Foreign Exchange
Units   Cost   Units  Cost  Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost           (Year 1-4)      %    (TK000)
Marketing Facilities                        1/
Jute Storage Sheds            50    205.0-    -      -      10   2,050.0   10    2,050.0  30   6,150.0         10,250.0      25      2,560.0
Baling Presses                50     25.0-    -      -      10      250.0   10       250.0  30      750.0       1,250.0      50        625.0
Misc. Equipment3/             -      -         -      -     -         2.0              2.0            6.0          10.0      -          -
Total (without contingencies)                                    2,302.0           2,302.0        6,906.0      11,510.0      28      3,185.0
Contingencies: Physical (10%)-4                                    205.0             205.0          615.0       1,025.0      25        256.0
Price                                              293.2             541.2        2,300.1       3,134.5      30        940.0
Total (with contingencies)                                       2,800.2           3,048.2        9,821.1      15,669.5      28      4,381.0
1/ Includes 10% Supervision Cost. Estimated unit cost covers a
floor area of 5,940 Sq.ft @ TK 34.20/Sq. ft.
2/ Includes 100% customs duty and taxes.
3/  Includes tools, weighing scales, dunnage, etc.                                                                                                   |%
4/  Physical contingencies applicable to Jute Storage Sheds only.                                                                                    m x
3/27/77



BANGLADESH
Jute Project
Implements
Cost Estimates
(TK'000)
Estimated---------------Schedule of Expenditure-------------------           otal
Cost/     Year 1         Year 2            Year 3           Year 4        Cost      Foreign Exchange
Equipment  for JFA         Units    Unit    Units  Cost  Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units    Cost  (Year 1-4)  X   (TK'000)
Seed Drills              25,000   0.5    1,000   500   6,000   3,000   8,000   4,000   10,000   5,000   12,500   _               _
Handhoes                  20,000   0.3    1,000   300   5,000   1,500   6,000   1,800    8,000   2,400    6,000   -               -
Total (without                                        800            4,500            5,800              7,400   18,500   -         -
contingencies)
Contingencies: Physical                                                -                -                  -      -
Price                                  60.             495            1,102             2,072    3,729   -          -
Total (including                                      860            TTs7T 60772 2    -                                             -
contingencies)
1/ Physical Contingencies do not apply
3/27/77                                                                                                                                             Z
M x
41'I



BANGLADESH
Jute Project
Extension Services - staffing Proposed
Cost Estissates
(lIt 0-00)
-------------------Schedule lot  ecritment cud Mxoe-diture------------------------------------
Monthly
Salary     ----Year 1----        ---Year 2----       ---Year 3----        ---Year 4----       ---Year 5---        Total (Year 1-5)  Foreign Exchange
I.   At Headqurtera                      No    c             No        Coat       NO       Cokt        No       Cost       No       COst        N    o  Coat         oNo      Cost       % 2kS '000
Additional Director                1       2100       1        18.90       1       25.20        1       25.20       1       25.20        1      25.20          1      119.70
Administrative Officer             1       2000       1        08.00       I       24.00        1       24.00       1       24.00        1      24.20          1      114.00      -       -
Fisntal Aduteer                    1       2000       1       18.00        1       24.00        1       24.00       1       24.00        1      24.00          1      114.00       -      -
*itet ing Specialist               1       1dul       1       lo.20        1       21.60       1        21.bO       1       21.6        I          .60        I        02.60      -       -
Subject Matter Specialist          3       2400       3       37.80        3       50.40        3       50.40       3       50.40        3      50,.40         3      239.40
Audit Officer                      1       11100      1        i2.6O       1       16.60       I        1o          1       10.80        1      16.80         1        790o       -
Conetruction Engineer              1       1200       1        10.80       1       14.40        1       14.40       1        14.40       1      14.40          1       68.40
Draftsman                          1        500        1       4.50        1        6.00        1        6.00       1         6.00       1       6.00          1       28.50
Stenographer                       3        500       3        13.50       3       18.00        3       18.0O       3        18.00       3      18.00          3       85.50
Steno-typist                       3        500       3        13.50       3       18.O0        3       18.00       3        18.00       3      18.00          3       85.50       -      _
Driver                             4        350       4        12.60       4       16.80        4       16.80       4        16.80       4      16.80          4       79.80
Cleaner                            3        200       3         5.40       3        7.20        3        7.20       3         7.20       3       7.20          3       34.20
Peon er                                     230       10       18.00      10       24.00       10       24.20       10       24.00      10      24.00         10      114.00
Darwan                             2        200       2         3.60       2        4.80        2        4.80       2         4.80       2       4.80          2       22.80
Nightguard                         2        200       2         3.60       2        4.80        2        4.80       2         4.80       2       4.80          2       22.80       -      -
Total (Hqrs)               37                  37      207.0WA"    37        276.00     37      276.00       37      276.00      37       276.00        37    1,311.00      -       -
II,   At Zoual offices                                                      2
Asstt. Director of Agriculture   11        1400       4        50.40&      7      117.60       11      184.80       11      194.80      11      184.80        11      722.40
Subject Matter Specialist         40       1000      264//   312.00       32      384.00       40      480.00      40       480.00      40     480.00         40     2136.00       -      -
Dy. Metst. Director of Agric.    20        1000      13-    156.00        16      192.00       20      240.00      20       240.00      20     240,00         20     1069.00       -      -
IDeadrterk                        11        300       4        16.80       7       29.40       11       46.20       11       46.20      11       46.20        11      184.80       -      -
Stenographer                      11        450       4        21.60       7       37.80       11       59.40      11        59.40      11      59.40         11      237.60       -
Accountant                        11        350       4        16.80       7       29.40       11       46.20      11        46.20      11      46.20         11      184.80
Typist                            11        320       4        15.36       7       26.88       11       42.24      11        42.24      11      42.24         11      168.96       -      _
pead Cashier                      11        320        4       13.36       7       26.88       11       42.24       11       42.24      11       42.24        11       168.96      -
L/D Assistant                     22        320        8       30.72      14       53.74       22       04.48      22        84.48      23       84.48        22       337.92      -      _
Accounts Clerk                    22        320        85,    30.72       14       53.76       22       84.48       22       84.48      22       84.48        22       337.92
Driver                            20        320      13-       49.92      16       61.44       20       76.80      20        76.80      20       76.80        20       341.76      -
Dri3eo-rcChanic Operaor           11        200        4        9.60       7        16.80      11       26.40       11       26.40      11       26.40        11       105.60      -
Cash Guard                        11        200        4        9.60       7        16.80      11       26.40       11       26.40      11       26.40        11       105-60      -       -
Cleaner                           22        200        86/    19.20       14        33.60      22       52.80       22       52.80      22       52.80        22       211.20
Penn                              51        200       30       72.00      39       93.60       51      122.40       51      122.40      51      122.40        51       532.80      -       -
Nightguard                        11        2D0        4        9.60       7       16.80       11       26.40       11       26.40      11       26.40        11       105.60
Dar.en                            11        200        4        9.60       7        16.80      11       26.40       11       26.40      11       28.40        11       105.60
Total (Zonal Offices)    307                 246      845.28      215     1207.32      307     1667.64     307      166764      307    1667.64        307      7055.52      -      _
III.   At Unit Offices
Jute Extension Officer           250        630      1      00 123 00                  00     250     1300.00      250     1800.00     250    1800.00        250      6840.00 
Input Supply Officer             500        450     100       405,00  / 300      1620.00      500     2700.00     500      2700.00     500    2700.00        500    10123.00
i-/S Assistant                   250        320       25       96.00      75       288.00     150      576.00      250      960.00     250      960.00       250      2880.00      -       _
TyDist                           250        320       25       96.00      75       288.00     150      576.00      250      960.00     250      960.00       250      2880.00      -       -
Peon                             250        200       25       60.00      75      180.00      150      360.00      250      600.00     250      600.00       250      1800.00
Nightgusard                      250        200       25       60.00      75       180.00     150      360.00      250      600.00     250      600.00       250      1800.00
Storekeeper                      250        3Z0      25        96.00      75      268.00      150      576.00      250      960.00     250      960.00       250      2880.00      -      _
Total (Unit officers)   2000                 325      1533.00     775     3564.00    1500      6948.00    2000      8580.00    2000    8580.00       2000    29205.00       -      -
Total (All Staff)        2344                gOO    2585.28    1027       5047.32    2344      8891.6k    23444   10523.64    234444 10523.64        2344    3757152
Daily and Travel Allowasces                                    1762,50              3103.50             5371.50              5371.50             5371.50               20980.50
Total (with allowances)                                        4347.78              8150.82            14263.14             15895.              15895.14
Price Contingencies                                             264.64               741.13             2152.07              3515.41             4633.95               11307.20
Total (witb allowances and                                       129L95                                16415.21             19410.55            2096 9.22
Co,atD.emscits)
_/  A llsw{sg for 8 ecubis sakey in the first year for all staff
2/. AlIstis  for 9 scathe sala-1  in tbe firat ye_r
5f  lelSe  IS3 Subject   utter   Spcialists  for the etiug 9 ZionS Diftees
3/ IsaleudssJ DaMerr for the existing 9 ZOne1 Oific_s
6/ Inclodes 18 Peons for the existing 9 Zonal Oiffied
7/ Sle Teb197
.UIn. 15, 1977 -



BANGLADESH
Jute Project
Extension Services - Daily and Travel Allowances for Staffing Proposed
Cost Estimates
(Tk '000)
------------------Years------------------------           Total    Foreign Exchange
Daily Allowance                        1           2           3           4          5      (Year 1-5)    %   Tk'000
Headquarters Staff                 31.50      42.00       42.00       42.00       42.00       199.50      -     -
Zonal Office Staff                189.00     247.50      319.50      319.50      319.50    1,395.00       -     -
Unit Office Staff                 720.00   1,440.,00   2,700.00   2,700.00   2,700.00   10,260.00               -
Sub-total                   940.50   1,729.50   3,061.50   3,061.50   3,061.50   11,854.50          -      -
Travel Allowance    LI
Headquarters Staff-'               84.00       84.00      84.00       84.00       84.00       420.00
Zonal Office Staff A"             258.00     330.00      426.00      426.00      426.00    1,866.00
Unit Office Staff -               480.00     960.00   1,800.00   1,800.00   1,800.00    6,840.00
Sub-total                   822.00   1,374.00   2,310.00   2,310.00   2,310.00    9,126.00
Total (Daily and
Travel Allowances)                1,762.50   3,103.50   5,371.50   5,371.50   5,371.50   20,980.50
1/  @ TK 30/day for 100 days travel in a year,
2/  @ TK 30/day for 150 days'travel in a year-
3/  @ TK 20/day for 180 days'travel in a year.
4/  TK 1.00/mile upto 500 miles in a month,
5/  TK k.00/mile upto 200 miles in a month.
3/26/77



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Extension Services - Buildings and office Equipment
Cost Estimates
(Tk '000)
'Year 1       Year 2               Year 3               Year 4                 Year 5            Total Cost Foreign Exchange
Units    Cost   Units  Cost  Units        Cost     Units       Cost     Units       Cost      Units      Cost       (Yeir 1-5)   Z    Tk '000
A. Buildings
Iniput Supply Officer's                        I/
houses                        2,500    29.5                   600     17,700.0    700      20,650.0    700      20,650.0    500       14,750.0    73,750.0    25    18,440.0
Extension CentersVl              2,500     47                    600      2,820.0    700       3,290.0    700        3.290.0    500       2.350.0    11 750.0    25       2.935.0
20,520.0             23,940.0             23,940.0             17,100.0    85,500.0    25    21,375.0
B. Office Equipment
Office furniture                   250      4.5    25   112.5    50         225.0      75         337.5    100         450.0      -        -           1,125.0    -        -
Stationary                         250      3.0    25    75.0    75         225.0    150         450.0    250          750.0    250         750.0      2,225.0    -        -
Typewriters                        278    13.0    39   507.0    56          728.0      83      1,079.0    100        1,300.0     -         -           3,614.0    50      1,807.0
Calculators (manual)               500      5.0   100   500.0   200       1.000,0    200       1.000.0      -                                          2,500.0    50      1.250.0
1,194.5             2,178.0              2,866.5              2,500.0                750.0      9,489.0    32      3,057.0
Total (A+B)without contingencies                            1,194.5             22,698.0             26,806.5             26,440.0             17,850.0    94,989.0    26    24,432.0
3/
Contingencies - rhysical                                        59.72            2,268.9              2,663.32             2,645.0              1,837.5      9,474.44   26      2,463.0
- Price                                          94.06            4 420.35             8 484.66            11.419.8             107.30.Z5   34.726.12      -     8.985.0
Total with contingencies                                     1,348.28           29,387.25            37,954.48            40,504.80            29,994.75  139,189.56   26    35,880.0
I/ Includes 57. supervision costs, estimated unit cost covers a floor area of 308 sq.ft. i.e.,
Tk 100.64/sq.ft.
2/  200 sq. ft. corrugated  iron roof and pole structure.                                                                                                                                       1 
3/  Applying 10% physical contingencies on buildings and 5% on office equipment.
June 24, 1977



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Extension Serivees - Transport
Cost Estimates
(TK 000)
Schedule of Expenditures
Estimate                                                                                Total
Cost/Unit            Year l             Year 2           Year 3            Year 4         Cost       For. Exchange
Description                           Units    CIF  Taxes  Total   Units   Cost         Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost  (Years 1-4)   X   TK 000
At Headquarters
4-Uheel Drive Vehicle                        2   84.0  116.0  200.4/        2      400.0      -        -       -        -       -       -        400.0      50      200.0
Sedan (car)                                 1   84.0  116.0  200.0:-/       1      200.0      -        -       -        -       -       -        200.0      50     100.0
Minibus                                      1   84.0  116.0  200.0-        1      200.0    _          -       -        -       _       -        200.0      50      100.0
Subtotal                                                                      800.0      -        -        -        -       -      -        800.0      50      400.0
At, Zonal Office                                                       1/
Speed boats                                1O   60.0   64.0  144C          10   1,440.0                -       -                              1,440.0      50      720.0
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle                       20   84.0  116.0  200.02-    13   2,600.0        3    600.0       4    800.0       -       -     4,000.0       50   2,000.0
Motorcycles                                 60    4.5    6.5   11,0-1    39        429.0      9      99.0      12    132.0      _       _        660.0      50      330.0
Subtotal                                                                    4,469.u            699.0             932.0      -      -      6,100.0      50   3,050.0
At Unit Offices
Motorcycles                             1,000    4.5    6.5   11.0k'   450   4,950.0   200  2,200.0    350  3,850.0             -       -    11,000.0       50   5,500.0
Subtotal                                                                    4,950.0          2,200.0          3,850.0               -    11,000.0       50   5,500.0
At Block Level
Bicycles                                2,500   0.75   0.75    1.53/ 2,500   3,750.0                   -                -                      3,750.0      50   1,875.0
Subtotal                                                                    3,750.J               -                 -               -     3,750.0       50   1,875.0
Total                                                                      13,969.0          2,899.0           4,782.0              -    21,650.0       50  10,825.0
Contingencies - Physical (5%)                                                        698.5            144.9            239.1              -      1,082.5      50     541.3
- Price                                                               976.7           344.8             954.0              _     2,275.5       50   1,137.7
Total (including contingencies)                                            15,6244.2         3,388.7           5,975.1              _    25,008.0       50  12,504.0
1/  Including customs duty and taxes at 140%.                                                                                                                                    |
2/  Including customs duty and taxes at 140%.                                                                                                                                   -
3/ Including customs duty and taxes at 100%
11/4/77



BANGLADESH
Jute Project
Extension Services - Materials and Equipment
Cost Estimates
(TK'000)
---------------------------Schedule of Expenditure-------------------------------                     Foreign
Exchange
Unit     ---Year 1-----   ---Year 2----    ---Year 3----    ---Year 4-----  ---Year 5----             Cost          a TK'000
Units   Cost      Units   Cost      Units    Cost    Units    Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost   (Year 1-5)
I/
1.   Trials/Demonstrations               2,500    150      1,500   225.00    1625   243.75   2,000   300.00   2,500   375.00  2,500   375.00  1,518.75   30   456.0
2.   Extension Materials                                            120.00            128.00             158.00            197.00.           197.00    800.00   50   Anf.o
Total (1+2)                                                 345.00            371.75            458.00             572.00            572.00  2,318.75   37-  856.0
Contingencies: Physical(5%)                                      17.25             18.58              22.90             28.60             28.60    115.93   40    46.0
Price                                            27.16             42.93              91.37            168.16            228.22    557.84   40   223.0
Total (with contingencies)                                 389.41             433.26            572.27             768.76           828.82  2,992.52   38  1125.0
1/  Estimated on the basis of use of a recommended dose of following inputs:  seeds, fertilizers,                                                                                     X
pestices and hired labor.
3/27/77



BANGL'ADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Cost Estimates
(TK 000)
Period   Estimated                 Schedule of Expenditures                      Total Fee       Foreign Exchange
(months)  Fee/Month  Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      (Years 1-5)       _       TK 000
A.  Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
1. Project Adviser 1/                   24      75.0      450.0        900.0      450.0       ^           -            1,800.00        100     1,800.00
2. Marketing Specialist 2/              24      75.0                   900.0      450.0       450.00      -            1,800.00        100     1.800O.
Subtotal                                             450.0     1,800.0       900.00      450.00      -            3,600.00       100      3,600.00
B.  Overseas Training
1. Market Officers (2) 3/                3                              97.75        75                                   957.50        80        1578.0
2. Project Director (1) 3/               3                              4978.7U5 48.7                                     95            80        156.0
3. Bank Staff (2) 3/                   1                               67.5        97. 5                                125.0           80       1520.0
4. Farmers (20) 3/                     1.5                             637.5      637.5                                1275.0           80      1,204.0
5. Project Officers (4) 3/             1.5                             122.5      17..5                                                 80        204.0
Subtotal                                                       1,008.75   1,008.75                                2,017.5          80     1,614.0
C. Monitoring
Services 4/                                               262.5        525.0      525.0       525.0       525.0        2,362.5          _
Subtotal                                             262.5       525.0       525.0       525.0       525.0        _,362.5
Total                                               712.50     3,333.75   2,433.25       975.0       525.0        7,980.0          65     5,214.0
Contingencies - Physical (5%)                                  35.63      166.68       121.69      48.75       26.25         399.0          65        261.0
- Price                                         561        44.9         -50         35.2       189o2        1.o.71                   1,o69.o
Total (including contingencies)                               804.23   J.92k35   3,o20.52   1.375.00          740.27       9,855.37        66a_    6.-41-h - 
1/ Allowing half of the annual costs in the years 1 and 4.
2/  Allowing full annual costs in the years 2, 3 and 4 and half in year 5.
3/ Allowing daily subsistence costs at US$50.00 plus a sum of US$2,000.00 towards air travel f or each.
Allowing a lump sum eiaal to US$35,000/year.
Nwovber 4, 1977
July 15, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 11
BANGLADESH
Jute Project
Percentages Used in Calculating Price Contingencies
Year         Civil Works        Equipment           Staff Salaries
1977             9.0               7.5                   6.0
1978             9.0               7.5                   6.0
1979             9.0               7.5                   6.0
1980             8.0               7.0                   6.0
1981             8.0               7.0                   6.0
March 30, 1977



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Crop Production Costs and Returns
Jute Production Costs (Per Acre)
Non-IJCS---                           IJCS at Present-                  IJCS Future with Project2/
Yield - 14.5 Maunds/Acre                     Yield - 22 Maunds/Acre               Yields  25 Maunds/Acre
Item        Amount            Unit Price      Total Cost    Amount         Unit Price      Total Cost          Amount         Total Cost
Tk             Tk                          Tk                Tk                               Tk
Seeds              5 seers         8.00   (7.00)   40.00  (35.00)  4 seers    3.50   (7.00)   14.00   (28.00)  4 seers              14.00   (28.00)
Urea              11  "            1.50   (2.75)   16.50  (30.25) 28  "           1.50   (2.75)   42.00   (77.00) 45  "              67.50  (123.75)
TSP                5               1.20   (3.10)     6.00  (15.50) 10             1.20   (3.10)   12.00   (31.00) 11  "              13.20   (34.10)
MP                 3  "            1.00   (2.10)    3.00   (6.30) 12  "           1.00   (2.10)   12.00   (25.20) 16  "              16.00   (33.60)
Pesticide          -             3/ -       _         -               1 lb    3/16.00  (35.00)   16.00   (35.00)  2 lb               32.00   (70.00)
Hired Labor       76 (127) days- 8.00   (6.00)  608.00 (762.00) 90(115)daYs 8.00   (6.00)  720.00  (690.00) 95(121)days  760.00  (726.00)
Bullock Cost      19 pair days  12.00  (12.00)  228.00 (228.00) 22 pair    12.00  (12.00)  264.00  (264.00) 22 pair days 264.00  (264.00)
Loan Interest              -            -             -        -      - days       -       _       25.00       -      -              25.00
Total                                            901.50 (1077.05)                              1105.00 (1150.20)                1191.70 (1279.45)
Production Cost Per Maund Jute                      62.17  (74.28)                                 50.23   (52.27)                  47.66   (51.12)
it Per Bale (5 Maunds)               310.85  (371.40)                               251.14  (261.35)                 238.30  (255.60)
(   )  Economic Values
1/  Source - IJCS/World Bank Survey
2/ Mission estimate.
3/ Labor requirement per acre for non-IJCS and IJCS farms is 127 and 115 man days respectively (used for economic analysis), while
proportion of hired labor is 60% and 78% of total requirement respectively (used for financial analysis).
March 24, 1977                                                                                                                                     | t
tbx



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Crop Production Costs and Returns
Financial Returns from Jute Production at Various Fiber Prices
A. Traditional Technology
Prices                 Yields              --     Gross Returns ---           Production         Net
Tk/Md                  Md/Acre             Fiber  By Product       Total         Cost          Return
Fiber   By Product      Fiber  By Product       Tk        Tk            Tk            Tk             Tk
90.00       5.00        14.5       29        1,305.00    145.00      1,450.00        901.50         548.50
75.00       5.00        14.5       29        1,087.50    145.00      1,232.50        901.50         331.00
60.00       5.00        14.5       29          870.00    145.00      1,015.00        901.50         113.50
B. IJCS at Present
90.00       5.00        22.0       44        1,980.00    220.00      2,200.00      1,105.00       1,095.00
75.00       5.00        22.0       44        1,650.00    220.00      1,870.00      1,105.00         765.00
60.00       5.00        22.0       44        1,320.00    220.00      1,540.00      1,105.00         435.00
C.  IJCS Future with Project
90.00       5.00        25.0       50        2,250.00    250.00      2,500.00      1,191.70       1,308.30
75.00       5.00        25.0       50        1,875.00    250.00      2,125.00      1,191.70         933.30
60.00       5.00        25.0       50        1,500.00    250.00      1,750.00      1,191.70         558.30        H
c  m
March 24, 1977                                                                                                          C)



ANNEX 10
Table 3
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Crop Production Costs and Returns
Costs and Returns    Local Aus (Per Acre)
COSTS
Cost or
Item                      Amount                  Unit Price                   Return
Tk                          Tk
Seeds                     30 Seers                  2.00 (3.00)              60.00 (90.00)
Fertilizer              Small Amount                 -                       15.00 (30.00)
Pesticide                 "       I                  -                        8.00 (16.00)
Hired Labor-/           36 (60) Man clays            8.00 (6.00)            288.00 (360.00)
Bullocks                27 Pair days               12.00 (12.00)            324.00 (324.00)
Total                                                                    695.00 (820.00)
YIELD
2/             3/
Paddy                    12 Maunds                  74,00 (100.00>=-        888.00 (1200.00)
Straw                    20    "                    3.00 (  3.00)            60.00 ( 60.00)
RETURNS  (GROSS)                                                            948.00 (1260.00)
RETURNS (NET)                                                               253.00  (440.00)
( ) Economic Values
1/  Labor requirement per acre is 60 man days (used for economic analysis).
Proportion of hired labor is about 60% (used for financial analysis).
2/  Current GOB floor price.
3/  See Annex 10 Table 1.
Source Agro Economic Research Section, Ministry of Agriculture, GOB
(modified in light of new trends).
March 24, 1977



ANNEX 10
Table 4
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Crop Production Costs and Returns
Improved Aus (per acre)
COSTS
Cost or
Item            Amount               Unit Price            Return
Tk                  Tk
Seed            30 Seers             3.00 (4.00)         90.00 (120.00)
Urea            20 Seers             1.50 (2.75)         30.00 (55.00)
TSP             15 Seers             1.20 (3.10)         18.00 (46.50)
MP               4 Seers             1.00 (2.10)          4.00 (8.50)
Pestic±9e        -                    -                  20.00 (40.00)
Labor -         42 (70) Man days   8.00 (6.00)          336.00 (420.00)
Bullocks        30 Pair days        12.00 (12.00)       360.00 (360.00)
Total                                                   858.00 (1050.00)
YIELD
2/                      1/
Paddy           20 Maunds-          74.00 (100.00-   1480.00 (2000.00)
Straw           25 Maunds            3.00 (3.00)         75.00 (75.00)
Returns (Gross)                                        1555.00 (2075.00)
Returns (Net)                                           697.00 (1025.00)
( ) Economic Values
1/ Labor requirement per acre is 70 mandays (used for economic analysis)
Proportion of hired labor is about 60% (used for financial analysis).
2/ Current GOB floor price.
3/ See Annex 10, Table 1.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
1.        A Progress report should be submitted every quarter and an annual
summary at the end of the year. The objective of the reports would be to
provide information on progress with implementing project components, com-
parison of targets and achievements, and to describe the impact of the project
on jute production and marketing. Reports should reach Washington within 60
days of the close of the reporting period. The annual report should be
accompanied by:
(a) A copy of budgets and financial estimates; and
(b) The operations plan (with quarterly targets) for the
coming year.
2.        While information and statistics would have to be provided by Sonali
Bank, Jute Ministry, IRDP and other project agencies, the Directorate of
Agriculture (Jute) would coordinate all data and would prepare the reports.
3.        The quarterly report would consist of brief written notes and a set
of tables. Suggested guidelines for these are shown in Appendix 1. Informa-
tion need not be confined to that suggested in the guidelines and anything
considered worth reporting should be included. The reporting format may be
modified as necessary at any time by mutual agreement between GOB and IDA.
The same format should be used for the annual report.
4.        Written notes should be brief and should deal with progress made,
problems encountered, and action taken to overcome the problems.
5.        Tables are designed to give progresive information on meeting both
physical and financial targets. Where physical information has not been
requested in tables (e.g. for technical assistance, extension and research
materials and equipment), it should be described in written notes.
6.        The key indicators listed in the tables will also be used by the
supervision missions to assess the progress in implementation.



ANNEX 11
Appendix I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Guideline for Headings and Contents
for the Quarterly Report
1.        General.  Give brief summary of physical and financial progress
with implementing the project during the quarter and progress with im-
proving jute production and marketing. (Tables 1-4). Highlight major
problems encountered, action taken or planned to overcome them, and progress
with solving major problems previously reported.
2.        Progress with Project Components.  Compare actual progress with
original targets and comment on changes made or planned. Where appropriate,
point out changes in costs and proposals for dealing with such changes.
(a) Credit - Comment on demand distribution, utilization
and recovery (Tables 4-6) and changes in loan conditions
proposed.
(b) Incremental Extension Staff - Vacancies, recruitment,
training, posting, delays and difficulties, if any.
(Table 7)
(c) Construction
(i) JEA Houses
(ii) Jute Stores (including baling presses)
Describe appointment of consultants, status of
designs, site selection and purchase, prequali-
fications, tenders for procuring materials and
construction progress. Explain delays and changes
if any. (Tables 2, and 8 to 10)
(d) Vehicles
(e)  Implements
(f) Office Furniture and Equipment
(g) Extension Equipment
Describe status of procurement, including opening of
Letters of Credit where appropriate. (Tables 2 and 11)



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Page 2
(h)  Field Demonstrations cnd Trials
Comment on number established, cost and give brief
summary of results.
(i) Technical Assistance
(i)  Consultants to DAJ (Recruitment appointment,
problems if any);
(ii) Consultants to Milistry of Jute (as 9 (i));
(iii) Overseas Training (Planning, arrangements made,
training completed, evaluation); and
(iv)  Monitoring (Appointment of consultants, progress).
3.        Financing, Disbursement, and Credit Withdrawals.  Comment on
expenditure for past quarter, give budget for coming quarter and approx-
imate forecast for 12 months expenditure. Comment on status of revolving
funds and progress with IDA credit withdrawals.
4.        Organization and Management
(a) Coordination
(i) National
(ii) Zonal
Comment on effectiveness, number of meetings and
important decisions made.
(b) Project Agencies. (Project Executing Agencies - DAJ,
Sonali Bank, Jute Ministry, JFA, and IRDP). (Supporting
Agencies - BJRI, Jute Seeds Directorate, BADC, Plant
Protection Directorate).
Describe organization ard management problems encountered
if any and steps taken cr planned to solve them. Describe
development (e.g., opening new DAJ offices, Sonali Bank
branches), staff performance and effectiveness, reorgan-
ization planned or carried out and results).
5.        Project Performance
(a) Jute Production (Table 3)
Briefly describe progress in implementing the annual plan
and comment on effectiveiiss of extension, inputs and credit



ANNEX I 1
Appendix I
Page 3
services; (if not already covered by earlier section.);
farmers' participation and adoption of improved practices;
new technology; impact of climate, pests, diseases and
prices on production; and compare yields and production
(or forecasts) with non project conditions.
(b) Jute Marketing (Table 4,4a and 4b)
Describe status of design and construction of marketing
facilities (if not described before), and organization
of jute marketing under the project. Comment on farmers'
participation, quantity of jute marketed, marketing costs,
share of costs paid by farmers, organization of jute sales,
prices receive by DAJ or IRDP and by participating farmers
compared to those of traders and farmers using traditional
channels; describe problems overcome and remaining and
actions and changes planned.
(c) Government Jute Corporations
Forward Consultants reports and describe progress in re-
structuring the Corporations.
(d) Monitoring
Forward copies of monitoring reports. Comment on findings.
(e) Jute and Paddy Pricing Mechanism
Describe progress in establishing pricing mechanism.



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending_ _
Credit Withdrawals
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - -T K '  0 0 0-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Expenditure           Withdrawal Claims         Estimated Project
Disburse-       Incurred               Submitted                Expenditure for
,ategory      ment (%)         a              c       a      b       c         Next 12 Months
a - Total at end of last quarter;
b - This quarter;
c -Total to date.
r. r 



ANNEX 11
BANGLADESH                           Appendix 1
BANGLADESH                 ~~~Table 2
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending_
Project Implementation Summary
Target                              Achievement
End Last
Quarter
During                          Total
Project   This    To    This                 This     This    To
Item                        Total      Year   Date   Year       Total   Quarter   Year   Date
A. Physical Information
No. Seed Drills
ITo. Eand Hoes
No. Sprayers
No. JEA Houses
Sets Office Furniture
No. Typewriters
No. Calculators
No. Jeeps
No. Bicycles
No. Jute Stores
No. Baling Presses
Others:_
B..Disbursement (TKs'OOO)
Seed Drills
Hand Hoes
Extension Equipment
Extension Materials
Office Furniture
Extension Staff 1/
Typewriters
Calculators
Jeeps
Motor Cycles
Bicycles
Baling Presses
Jute Stores
Loans for Production 2/
Loans for Marketing 2/
Overseas Training
Consultants
Monitoring
Others:_
1/ Incremental since July 1977
1/ Incremental to July 1977 level



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
BANGLADESH                              Table 3
JlU'E PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending_
Jute Production Information
1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
Farmers (No.)
Jute Farmers Associations (No.)
Participating Farmers (No.)
Area Covered (Acres)
Olitorius sown (Acres)
Capsularis sown (Acres)
Total jute sown
Line sowing (Acres)
Fertilized (Acres)
Plant protection (Acres)
Quantities (Tons)
Fertilizer used (Tons)
Insecticide used (Tons)
Improved seed used (Tons)
Production Olitorius (Tons)
Production Capsularis (Tons)
Total jute (Tons)
Yield (Mds/Acre):
Olitorius
Capsularis
All jute
Equipment (No.):
Drills in stock
Hand hoes in stock
Spray pumps in stock
Drills used
Hand hoes used
Spray pumps used



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
BANGLADESH                            Table 4
Page 1
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending _
Jute Marketing
1978       1979        1980        1981       1982
A. Physical Information
No. Stores Operated
By IJCS
By IRDP
Total
No. Baling Presses Operated
By IJCS
By IRDP
Total
No. Associations
JFA
KSS/JFA
Total
No. Farmers Participants
Through IJCS
Through IRDP
Total
Jute Delivered Mds
To IJCS Stores
To IRDP Stores
Total
Loose Jute Sold Mds
By IJCS Stores
By IRDP Stores
Total
Baled Jute Sold Mds
By IJCS Stores
By IRDP Stores
Total



ANNEX 114
Appendix 1
Table 4
Page 2
1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
Total Jute Sold Mds
By IJCS
By IRDP
Total
Financial Information
Price of Loose Jute TR/Md
Sold by IJCS
Sold by IRDP
Average
Price of Baled Jute TK/Md
Sold by IJCS
Sold by IRDP
Average
Average Price of Jute TK/Md
3u1d by 13CI
Sold by IRDP
Overall Average
Price Paid to Farmers TK/Md
By IJCS
By IRDP
Average
Revenue Received by IJCS TK'000
Fees from Farmers
Rent from IRDP
Total
Expenditure by IJCS TK'000
For Operating Stores
On Rented Stores
Total
Operational Surplus/Deficit TK'000



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Table 4a
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending_
Consolidated Jute Marketing Income and Expenditure
(IJCS)
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982
Jute Sold (Mds)
Revenue (TKs'000):
Fees
Other
Total
Expenditure (TKs'000):
Rent/Amortization
Staff and Establishment
Contract or Casual Labor
Spares and Repairs
Materials
Transport
Insurance
Interest Charges
Other Expenditure
Total
Surplus/ (Deficit)



ANNEX 11
BANGLADESH                               Appendix 1
Table 4b
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending
Consolidated Jute Marketing Income and Expenditure
(IRDP)
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982
Jute Sold (Mds)
Revenue (TKs'000):
Fees
Other
Total
Expenditure (TKs'000):
Rent/Amortization
Staff and Establishment
Contract or Casual Labor
Spares and Repairs
Materials
Transport
Insurance
Interest Charges
Other Expenditure
Total
Surp].us/(Deficit)



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Table 5
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending
Short Term Credit - Physical Information
Target              Achievement             This Year                     Increase
Original       Revised                     End                   Total    Total   over
Last   This   Last   This            Last   Last       This        To      Since   1977
Year   Year   Year   Year   1977   Year   Quarter   Quarter   Date          1977    Level
A. Loans Through Directorate
of Agriculture
1. Fertilizer Loans
No. Associations
No. Farmers
Tons Fertilizer distri-
buted
Acres benefitted
2. Cash Loans
No. Associations
No. Farmers
Acres benefitted
3. Marketing Loans
No. Associations
No. Farmers
Tons Jute Financed
B. Loans Through IRDP
4. Fertilizer Loans
No. KSS/JFA
No. Farmers
Tons Fertilizer distri-
buted
Acres benefitted
5. Cash Loans
No. KSS/JFA
No. Farmers
Acres benefitted
6. Marketing Loans
No. KSS/JFA
No. Farmers
Tons Jute Financed
C. Total Loans
7. Fertilizer Loans
No. Farmers
Tons Fertilizer distri-
buted
Acres benefitted
8. Cash Loans
No. Farmers
Acres benefitted
9. Marketing Loans
No. Farmers
Tons Jute Financed



ANNEX 11
BANGLADESH                                         Appendix 1
JUTE PROJECT                                         Table 6a
Report for Quarter Ending_
Short Term Credit - Financial Information
Credit Through Directorate of Agriculture
TK'000
Target               Achievement
Original        Revised                           This Year
Last   This   Last   This            Last   End Last    This        Total      To Date Incremental
Year   Year   Year   Year   1977   Year   Quarter    Quarter   To Date   Since 1977
Loan Commitment For:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Loan Disbursement For:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Loan Disbursements Incremental
To 1977 Level:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Principal and Interest Outstanding:
Beginning of Year
During Year
Total
Principal & Interest Recovered:
Overdues:
Less Than 6 months
6-12 months
More Than 12 months
Total
Loan Recdvery Percent of Total:
Outstanding:



BANGLADESH                                        ANNEX 11
JUTE PROJECT                                       Appendix 1
Report for Quarter Ending                                 Table 6b
Short Term Credit - Financial Information
Credit Through IBPF
TK'000
Target               Achievement
Original        Revised                           This Year
Last   This   Last   This            Last   End Last    This        Total     To Date Incremental
Year   Year   Year   Year   1977   Year   Quarter    Quarter   To Date   Since 1.977
Loan Commitment For:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Loan Disbursement For:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Loan Disbursements Incremental
To 1977 Level:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Principal and Interest Outstanding:
Beginning of Year
During Year
Total
Principal & Interest Recovered:
Overdues:
Less Than 6 months
6-12 months
More Than 12 months
Total                      j
Loan Recovery Percent of Total:
Otitstanding:



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT                                   ANNEX 11.
Appendix 1
Report for Ouarter Fnding                            Table 6c
Short Term Credit - Financial Information
Total Credit
~~~~~~~~~TK' 000
Target                Achievement
Original        Revisec                            This Year
Last   This   Last   Tlie             Last   End Last    This        Total      To Date Indremental
Year   Year   Year   Year   1977   Year   Quarter    Quarter   To Date   Since 1977
Loan Commitment For:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Loan Disbursement For:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Loan Disbursements Incremental
To 1977 Level:
Fertilizer
Labor
Marketing
Total
Principal and Interest Outstanding:
Beginning of Year
During Year
Total
Principal & Interest Recovered:
Overdues:
Less Than 6 months
6-12 months
More Than 12 months
Total
Loan Recovery Percent of Total:
Outstanding:



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending
I.J.C.S. Staff Information
TKs'000
Monthly Pay Rolf         Project Disbursement
Number of Staff                                                           Eligible
End      Employed   Total   Employed       Pay    Allowances                        for      End                   Total
July   Last      This        To      Since        Scale   Per Staff    July              Project    Last        This       To
Staff Category          1977   Quarter  Quarter    Date    July 1977    TK        Member TK   1977   Latest   Finance    Quarter   Quarter   Date
Head Office
Zone
Unit
Total
e>WI



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending-
Progress of Construction
TARGET                                ACHIEVEMENT
End Last
Quarter
Total     During      Total                       Total
Project     This       To        This        To         This        This       To
Total       Year      Date       Year       Date       Quarter      Year      Date
A. JEA Houses
No. Houses to be built
No. Sites selected
No. Contracts let
No. Contracts completed
No. Houses covered by con-
tracts let
No. Houses under construction
No. Houses completed
B. Jute Stores
No. Stores to be built
No. Sites selected
No. Contracts let
No. Contracts completed
No. Stores covered by con-
tracts let
No. Stores under construction
No. Stores completed
No. Baling presses installed
0.
00 rs 



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report of Quarter Ending
Progress of Construction Tenders and Contracts
DATE
Description                                  Tenders                                                Construction
Tender          of            Tender                 Invitations                       Contracts                        To be Completed
Number         Item            Type        Prepared      Issued    Opened  Evaluated   Issued    To Start  Started  Original  Revised  Completed    Comments
e10x



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending
Progress of Tenders and Orders for Building Materials
DATE
Description                                         Tenders                                              Delivery
Tender          of            Tender                     Invitations                               Orders         Due
Number         Item           Type        Prepared          Issued         Opened      Evaluated  Placed  Original  Revised  Completed         Comments
F3 >
t- m M
0. >x
CDm. F
1-* 



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Report for Quarter Ending_
Progress of Tenders and Orders for Vehicles,
Implements, Equipment, Furniture and Materials other than Building Materials
DATE
Description                              Tenders                                           Delivery
Tender          of            Tender                Invitations                       Orders        Due
Number         Item            Iype       Prepared      Issued    Opened  Evaluated  Placed  Original  Revised  Completed         Comments
H x 
z1



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The impact of this project on the jute production of Bangladesh
would be determined by the changes of yield and acreages in the IJCS and
the non-IJCS areas. The changes in IJCS areas are easy to forecast; over
the one million acre area the jute production would increase from 2.5 M
bales to 5 M in some six years. In non-IJCS areas, however, the changes
in jute production are more difficult to foresee. In the absence of the
support to jute production provided by IJCS, change-over from jute to
paddy is more likely in these areas.
2.        Traditionally, Bangladesh farmers are responsive to price incen-
tives; in particular, the acreage put under jute depends on the jute/paddy
price ratio and the production costs expected for these two crops. Produc-
tion budgets show that the net benefits obtained from jute and improved aus
are comparable. With price fluctuations of the order of those experienced
in the past, each crop in turn could become more profitable, thus enticing
the farmers to change their cropping patterns. Prices of jute and paddy have,
in the past, widely fluctuated making it difficult for GOB to carry out an
effective production policy for eithe,r paddy or jute.
3.         A price policy for jute and paddy production will have to be based
on the market prospects for these two commodities. GOB will hire consultants
to carry out inter alia a survey of market prospects for raw jute and manufac-
tured goods. When the market prospects are assessed, GOB will be able to
define its policy for jute, in particular, to establish targets for jute
acreage and production, bearing in mind the traditional competition between
jute and paddy. It will then be the responsibility of the Food Policy Com-
mission to define a production policy, including pricing, permitting the
achievement of the targets selected, for foodgrain and also for jute. Until
this policy is defined and carried out in an effective way, prices and produc-
tion of foodgrain and jute are likely to remain subject to fluctuations and,
consequently, future acreages and production will be difficult to forecast.
4.        The overall impact of this project will presumably be to increase
Bangladesh's jute production. Because of the difficulties mentioned above,
however, it is not possible to quantify this increase with any certainty.
The future situation will presumably lie somewhere between two extreme
alternatives:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Alternative I:   Bangladesh jute production remaining constant
at the present level. Because of the project-
related increases of yields in the IJCS areas,
this would imply that some non-IJCS acreas
would switch to paddy production. About
400,000 acreas would be thus turned to aus.
Alternative II: Acreage presently under jute remaining constant
at the present level. This would then imply
an increase of Bangladesh jute production of
some 1.2 M bales above the first alternative.
5.        Alternatives (I) and (II), though extreme, do not appear impossible.
Since the future actual situation is likely to be somewhere between these two
possibilities, the economic impact of these two basic alternatives has been
assessed.
6.        Economic benefits have been computed using the economic prices for
paddy (Table 1) and jute forecast by the Economic Analysis and Projections
Department. In the "without project" case, to be conservative, it was
assumed that a slight yield increase (from 2.9 to 3 bales per acre) would
take place, eventhough no such improvement in yields has happened in the
past. In the "without project" case and the "With project - Alternative I"
case, where Bangladesh production remains constant at about 6 M bales, farm-
gate jute prices have been derived from the forecast of the Economic Analysis
and Projections Department (Table 2). In the "with project - Alternative II",
the eventual production comes to 7.2 M bales; the corresponding increase of
jute supply on the world market will then presumably have a negative effect
on jute prices. Conservatively it has been assumed that the FOB Chittagong
price would be as much as 10% lower than the level corresponding to a pro-
duction of 6 M bales.
7.        Apart from changes in jute yields and production, the project would
also improve jute quality. This would be caused by the marketing component
in two ways. Firstly, with no storage in primary markets and, at peak sales
time, inadequate storage even at secondary markets, much of the raw jute fiber
is stocked in the open. This results in quality deterioration which would be
prevented by project storage. Secondly, at present, farmers receive little
reward for grade differentials (Annex 5). With project marketing facilities,
farmers would have incentive to improve grades and thus increase the value of
the product. The combined value of reduced spoilage and improved quality has
been estimated at 4% of the FOB price of jute.
8.        Investment costs are taken from Annex 9 but exclude taxes and du-
ties and production and marketing credit. A five-year life has been assumed
for vehicles and equipment, but replacement costs have been averaged into an
annual expenditure. (The difference in analysis results between this and
actual but varying costs each year is insignificant.) Operating costs repre-
sent incremental jute extension services costs and building maintenance. The
life of jute sheds has been assumed to be 15 years.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
9.        Crop production costs based on current prices have been taken as
shown in Annex 10, Tables 1 and 3 but farm labor, seeds and fertilizer have
been shadow-priced. Because of the existing underemployment of farm labor,
especially outside the peak periods of sowing and harvest, family and hired
labor have been given a shadow price of Tk 6 per day - as opposed to an
average actual price of Tk 8 for hired labor. Seeds and fertilizers have
been given shadow prices related to world market prices.
10.       For both Alternative I and Alternative II, the economic rate of
return (ERR) is above 50%. This incLicates that, whatever the actual situ-
ation resulting from the project, the rate of return will be very high,
presumably above 50%.
11.       The most critical variable in this economic analysis is the price
level for both jute and paddy. As mentioned in para 6, an excessive increase
of jute production due to the project woud have an adverse effect on prices.
To assess the effect of a fall in prices (jute and paddy) on the ERR, a sen-
sitivity test has been performed. It shows that, if the prices of jute were
to fall by 15% (for both the "with" and "without" project situation), the rate
of return would remain above 50% in the case of Alternative I; in the case of
Alternative II it would fall to 20%. This indicates that the ERR would be
sensitive to price assumption if the project were to cause an increase of
jute production. This result, in turn, emphasizes the necessity for GOB to
carefully implement a production policy for jute to avoid any excessive
production that could have negative effects on the economy.
12.       The economic rate of return of the marketing component has also
been computed. It is also high - about 50% - and remains above 20% under
more pessimistic assumptions of cost increases or benefit decreases.
13.       Sensitivity tests for the whole project and the marketing component
are given in Tables 9 and 10.



ANNEX 12.
Table 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Price for Paddy
US$
per ton
Price 1985 Milled 5%, broken
F.O.B. Bangkok 1/                                               389.8
less 30% for price of 25-35% broken                            116.9
plus transportation to Chittagong                               25.0
Price C.I.F. Chittagor.g  -                                     297.9
plus 16% of above for handling and distribution
to urban consumption centers 2/                                 47.7
Price in urban markets                                          345.6
less 21% of above for cost of marketing,
milling and transportation from farm to
urban market 2/                                                 70.7
Price of rice equivalent at farmgate                            274.9
Price of paddy at farmgate 3/                                  178.6
Price of paddy at farmgate (Taka/maund)                        100.0
1/ IDA Commodity Price Forecast, November 23, 1976, modified to express
in 1977 constant dollars.
2/ Percentages established from a GOB study of these costs
3/ Assuming rate of conversion for paddy to rice of 65%.
March 1, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 2
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Price for Jute
US$          Taka
per M ton      per Maund
Price 1985 export grade jute fiber
F.O.B. Chittagong 1/                       344.0          192.5
Price 1985 cuttings
F.O.B. Chittagong                          172.0           96.3
Weighted average price 2/                   295.0          165.1
Less:  Marketing Costs 3/                                   44.0
Farmgate Jute fiber price                                 121.1
Add value of by-products                                    10.0
Economic price for jute
at farmgate                                            131.1
1/ Economic Analysis and Projections Department forecast
(1977 constant dollars).
2/ 1 ton fiber at farmgate contains 71.5% export grade
fiber and 28.5% cutting.
3/ Excludes 9.50 takas of prof:Lt from financial cost and
the traditional system, considered to be an internal
transfer.
July 12, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 3
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Analysis Alternative I - Sown Area, Yields and Production
- - - - - - -_-_-_-_-_-  - -YEAR - - - - - -
1           2           3           4           5            6 onwards
A. Cultivated Area
(thousands of acres)
I. With Project
IJCS (new)                 50         150          300         500         500         500
IJCS (old)                500         500          500         500         500         500
Non-IJCS                1,185       1,010          735         425         365         350
Paddy (Aus)                15          90          215         325         385         400
Total             1,750        1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750        1,750
-l. Without Project
[JCS (old)                500         500          500         500         500         500
Non-IJCS                1,250       1,250       1,250        1,250       1,250       1,250
Total             1,750        1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750        1,750
B. Yields
(btaunds per acre)
f. With Project
IJCS (new)                 20.0        20.8         21.7        22.3        24.0        25.0
IJCS (old)                 22.5        23.5         25.0        25.0        25.0        25.0
Non-IJCS                   15.0         15.0        15.0        15.0        15.0         15.0
Paddy (Aus)                20.0         20.0        20.0        20.0        20.0         20.0
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)                 22.5         22.5        22.5        22.5        22.5        22.5
Non-IJCS                   15.0         15.0        15.0        15.0        15.0         15.0
C. Production
(millions of maunds)
I. With Project
IJCS (new)                  1.0          3.1         6.5        11.2        12.0         12.5
IJCS (old)                 11.3        11.7         12.5        12.5        12.5         12.5
Non-IJCS                   17.7         15.2        11.0         6.3         5.5          5.0
Total Jute-/          30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0         30.0        30.0
Paddy (Aus)            0.3         1.8         4.3          6.5         7.7         8.0
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)                 11.25       11.25        11.25       11.25       11.25        11.25
Non-IJCS                   18.75        18.75       18.75       18.75       18.75        18.75
Total Jute            30.00       30.00       30.00        30.00       30.00       30.00
1/  Rounded to the nearest million maunds.
July 11, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 4
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Analysis Alternative I - Prices and Benefits
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - YEAR - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1          2           3           4           5           6 onwards
A. Prices
(takas/maund)
I.  With Project
Jute                     131.1 1/   '31.1        131.1      131.1       131.1       131.1
Paddy                    103.8 -    103.8        103.8      103.8       103.8       103.8
II.  Without Project
Jute                     131.1       131.1       131.1      131.1       131.1       131.1
B.  Benefit              2/
(millions of takas) -
I. With Project
IJCS (new                131         406         852      1,468       1,573       1,639
IJCS (old)             1,481-      1,534      1,639       1,639       1,639       1,639
Non-IJCS               2,321       1,993      1,442         826         721         655
Total Jute        3,933      3,933       3,933       3,933       3,933       3,933
Paddy (Aus)          31         187        446         675         799         830
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)             1,475       1,475      1,475       1,475       1,475       1,475
Non-IJCS               2,458       2,458      2,458       2,458       2,458       2,458
Total             3,933      3,933       3,933       3,933       3,933       3,933
1/  Includes value of by-products estimated at 3.8 kyats per maund of paddy.
2/ Rounded to nearest million.
July 11, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 5
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Analysis Alternative I - Production Cost and Incremental Working Capital
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  YEAR - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1           2           3           4           5           6           7 onwards
A. Unit Production Costs
(takas per acre)
I.  With Project
IJCS (new)              1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279
IJCS (old)              1,150       1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279
Non-IJCS                1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077        1,077
Paddy (Aus)             1,050       1,050       1,050       1,050       1,050       1,050       1,050
II.  Without Project
IJCS (old)              1,150       1,150       1,150       1,150       1,150       1,150       1,150
Non-IJCS                1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077        1,077
B. Production Costs
(millions of takas)
I.  With Project
IJCS (new)                 64         192         384         640         640         640          640
IJCS (old)                575         640         640         640         640         640         640
Non-IJCS                1,276       1,088         792         458         393         377          377
Total Jute        1,915       1,920       1,816       1,738        1,673       1,657       1,657
Paddy (Aus)          16           95         226         341         404         420         420
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)                575         575         575         575         575         575         575
Non-IJCS                1,346       1,346       1,346       1,346       1,346       1,346       1,346
Total Jute        1,921       1,921       1,921       1,921        1,921       1,921       1,921
C.  Normalized Working Capital 1
(millions of takas)
I.  With Project 2/
Jute                      787         789         746         714         688         681         681
Aus Paddy                   4          23          56          84         100         104         104
II.  Without Project 2/
Jute                      789         789         789         789         789         789         789
III.  Incremental
Jute                        2           2          43          32          26            7           0
Paddy                       4          19          33          28          16           4            0
1/  Based on average value outstanding each year.  Average is estimated using production costs and
time lag  between incurring of costs and realization of revenues (150 days for jute, 90 days
for Aus paddy).
2/ Cumulative investment in working capital.
July 11, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 6
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Analysis Alternative II - Sown Area, Yields and Production
- -   -    -    -    -    -     -   -    -    -    -    -     -  YEAR   -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -     -   -     -
1          2           3           4           5           6 onwards
A. Cultivated Area
(thousands of acres)
I. With Project
IJCS (new)                50         150         300         500         500         500
IJCS (old)               500         500         500         500         500         500
Non-IJCS               1,200       1,100         950         750         750         750
Paddy (Aus)                 0           0           0          0           0           0
Total             1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)               500         500         500         500         500         500
Non-IJCS               1,250       1,250       1,250       1,250       1,250       1,250
Total             1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750       1,750
B. Yields
(maunds per acre)
I. With Project
IJCS (new)                20.0        20.8        21.7        22.3        24.0        25.0
IJCS (old)                 22.5       23.5        25.0        25.0        25.0        25.0
Non-IJCS                   15.0        15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0        15.0
Paddy (Aus)                20.0        20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0        20.0
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)                 22.5       22.5        22.5        22.5        22.5        22.5
Non-IJCS                   15.0       15.0         15.0       15.0        15.0        15.0
C. Production
(millions of maunds)
I. With Prolect
IJCS (new)                  1.0         3.1        6.5        11.2        12.0        12.5
IJCS (old)                 11.3        11.7       12.5        12.5        12.5        12.5
Non-IJCS                   18          16.5        14.3       11.3        11.3        11.3
Total Jute -/        30.3        31.3        33.3        35.0        35.8        36.3
Paddy (Aus)              0          0           0           0           0           0
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)                 11.25      11.25       11.25       11.25       11.25       11.25
Non-IJCS                   18.75       18.75      18.75       18.75       18.75       18.75
Total Jute           30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00
1/  Rounded to the nearest million maunds.
July 11, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 7
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Analysis Alternative II - Prices and Benefits
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - YEAR - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1          2           3          4           5          6 onwards
A. Prices
(takas/maund)
I. With Project
Jute                     130.5      127.4       122.2      117.7       115.2       114.6
Paddy                    103.8 -    103.8       103.8      103.8       103.8       103.8
II.  Without Project
Jute                     131.1      131.1       131.1      131.1       131.1       131.1
B. Benefit               2/
(millions of takas) -
I. With Project
IJCS (new)               131        395         794      1,319       1,382      1,433
IJCS (old)             1,475      1,491       1,528      1,471       1,440      1,432
Non-IJCS               2,349                  1,747      1,330       1,302       12295
Total Jute       3,955       3,988       4,069      4,120       4,124      4,160
Paddy (Aus)           0          0           0          0           0           0
II.  Without Project
IJCS (old)             1,475      1,475       1,475      1,475       1,475      1,475
Non-IJCS               2,458      2,458       2,458      2,458       2,458       2,458
Total            3,933       3,933       3,933      3,933       3,933      3,933
1/  Includes value of by-products estimated at 3.8 kyats per maund of paddy.
2/ Rounded to nearest million.
July 12, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 8
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Economic Analysis Alternative II - Production Cost and Incremental Working Capital
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - YEAR - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1          2           3           4           5           6 onwards
A. Unit Production Costs
(takas per acre)
I.  With Project
IJCS (new)             1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279      1,279       1,279
IJCS (old)             1,150       1,279       1,279       1,279       1,279      1,279
Non-IJCS               1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077      1,077        1,077
Paddy (Aus)            1,050       1,050       1,050       1,050       1,050      1,050
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)             1,150       1,150       1,150       1,150      1,150       1,150
Non-IJCS               1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077
B. Production Costs
(millions of takas)
I. With Project
IJCS (new)                64         192         384         640         640        640
IJCS (old)               575         640         640         640         640        640
Non-IJCS               1,292       1.l85       1,023         808         808         808
Total Jute        1,931       2,017      2,047       2,088       2,088       2,088
Paddy (Aus)           0           0           0           0           0          0
II. Without Project
IJCS (old)               575         575         575         575         575        575
Non-IJCS               1,346        1,346       1,346       1,346       1,346     1,346
Total Jute        1,921       1,921      1,921       1,921       1,921       1,921
C.  Normalized Working Capital -/
(mllions of takas)
I.  With Project 2/
Jute                     794         829         841         858         858         858
Aus Paddy                   0          0           0           0           0           0
II.  Without Project-/
Jute                     789         789         789         789         789        789
III.  Incremental
Jute                        5         35          12          17           0           0
Paddy                       0          0           0           0           0           0
1/  Based on average value outstanding each year.  Average is estimated using production
costs and time lag between incurring of costs and realization of revenues (150 days
for jute, 90 days for Aus paddy).
2/ Cumulative investment in working capital.
July 12, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 9
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return
Jute Extension Component
Alternative I       Alternative II
Base case                                       above 50%            above 50%
-  No benefit from the land released                                        not
from jute cultivation                        above 50%         applicable (na)
- Reduction in incremental
yield of jute by:  15%                       above 50%                20%
35% 1/                      50%                   0%
54%                         20%                   0%
-  Reduction in yield of paddy by:  40% 2/          above 50%               na
49% 3/       above 50%               na
-  Paddy price reduced by 49% 3/                    above 50%               na
-  Paddy production cost increased by 98% 3/        above 50%               na
-  Jute price decline of 15%                        above 50%               20%
-  Fertilizer price increased by 50%                above 50%               42%
-  Labor shadow price increased by 50%              above 50%               14%
1/ A decline in incremental yield by 35% would bring the yield on all IJCS area
to 4.5 bales/acre -- a level which has already been achieved on 0.5 million
acres.
2/ A decline in yield of HYV Aus paddy by 40% would equate the yield to that from
traditional Aus paddy.
3/ A decline in price by 49% or increase in costs by 98% is equivalent to no
profit margin on paddy production.
July 12, 1977



ANNEX 12
Table 10
BANGLADESH
J_rE PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return
Jute Marketing Component
Economic
Rate of Return
Base Case                            50
Benefit decline by:  37%             30
55%           20
Costs increased by:  58%             30
122%           20



ANNEX 13
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                      Disbursement                  Cumulative Disbursemen
and Quarter                          During Quarter                at End of Quarter
1978
September 30
December 31
March 31
June 30                                   0.1                               0.1
1979
September 30                              1.0                              1.1
December 31                               1.0                               2.1
March 31                                  0.4                               2.5
June 30                                   1.0                               3.5
1980
September 30                              1.0                              4.5
December 31                               1.0                               5.5
March 31                                  0.5                               6.0
June 30                                   1.5                               7.5
1981
September 30                              2.0                               9.5
December 31                               2.0                              11.5
March 31                                  1.0                              12.5
June 30                                   1.5                              14.0
1982
September 30                              2.0                              16.0
December 31                               2.0                              18.0
March 31                                  1.5                              19.5
June 30                                   1.5                              21.0
July 15, 1977



ANNEX 14
Page I
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
List of Documents and Tables Included in the Project File
Document 1  -    Jute Production Trends
Table 1     -    Raw Jute Production in Bangladesh
Table 2     -    Relative Share in World Production of Raw Jute
Table 3     -    Relative Share in Production of Raw Jute from
Developing Countries
Table 4     -    Jute and Rice Prices and Jute Acreage in Bangladesh
Chart WB 17098   Jute and Rice Prices and Jute Acreage in Bangladesh
Document 2  -    IJCS Training and Inputs Services
Table 1     -    Directorate of Agriculture (Jute) Training Program
Document 3  -    Jute Marketing Costs
Table 1     -    Farias and Bepari's Marketing Costs
Table 2     -    Monthly Average Prices of Raw Jute at Grower's Level
Table 3     -    Cost of Marketing Jute by Katcha Balers
Table 4     -    Pucca Baling Cost
Document 4
Table 1     -    Jute:  Summary of Production Consumption and Trade
Table 2     -    Jute:  Growth Rates of Production Consumption and Trade
Document 5  -    Construction
Chart WB 17091   Plan for Jute Assistant House C.1 Sheet Wall and Roof
Chart WB 17094   Plan for Jute Extension Assistant House - Brick Wall
and Concrete Roof
Chart WB 17092   Attachment to Jute Extension Assistant House
Chart WB 17093   Plan of Typical Jute Store
Appendix 1       Terms of Reference of Consulting Firm for the Building
Program



BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION-SCHEDULE OF MAIN PROJECT ACTIVITIES
FY 1978                        FY 1979                         FY 1980                        FY 1981                        FY 1982
ITEM                 ACTIVITY       PROJECT   1         2       3       4       1       2      3       4       1       2       3       4      1        2       3      4       1       2       3       4
Project              Preparation
Prof orma
Approval
Coordination          Establishment
Committees
Revolving Fund       Initial payment       .
Head Quarters         Recruitment_                          _      ____                                                                                           __
Staff                 APpointment           _                _      _                    .                                    .._onutn
Selection
Project Advisors      Appointment_
Zonal Staff           Appointment_
Appointment
Unit Staff            Recruintment        -       =          _ __                                 __                        _    _
TransportDesgn
and Office            Ten uercha
Equipment       D~Pequlifv ctr o
Implements            Tendering
Consultantio
Construction          Selection
Designs___.                                                                                                        __                       _      _
|                   ~~~~~~~F or Materials l    l                                                                                                             X         
1/   Recruitment of 100 Jute Extension Officers started in January 1977.                                                                                                                 World Bank-17424






BANGLADESH: JUTE PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Directorate of Agriculture to Channel Credit to Farmers and to
Conduct Marketing
SECRETARY FOR AGRICULTURE               - _         _          PROJECT COORDINATION                 -              SONALI BANK
COMMITTEE                l                   HEADQUARTERS
SUPPORTING SERVICES
Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)                            Bangladesh Agricultural
Jute FarmDretoatersAriulur'Iut)Development Corporation
Jute Farmers l  t         -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                           Headquarters                                         Plant Protection Directorate
National Committee                                                         See Chart-WB No 17095                           /          Ministry of Jute
_____________________________________                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jute  Purchasing  Corporation
___________ _  / Jute Research Institute:
~~/ I,      Research Directorate
l  OA    lIC    0     | Seed Directorate
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA OFIC 20
Jute Farmers'                                 Asst. Director of Agriculture         /       I                                                      f
Zonal Committee                                                       Deputy Asst. Director of Agriculture                                                                                     F  C -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  REGIONAL
SMS Plant              SMS Cop                 /                 ZONAL COORDINATING
i              | ~~~~~Jte Copoatlns  |               Protection       production/extension                            ZONAL_    COOMMINATING
toCorporations                    oco                                     -    '+*     1COMMITTEE
l             . |   ~~~~~Traders,Mills |l/
UNIT OFFICE (500)
Jute Farmers'                                                             Ju e   a                                                                                                         BAC
Unit Committee                                                             Jute Extension Officer                                                                                           BRANCH
.  .......           Jute SuppIY Officer                                             .OFFI
Jute Store                                      l
and Press
l                            and          *ess.   .         JUTE EXTENSION ASSISTANT (2500)
JUTE I'' -                                - f   /                                        Control  Li
JUTE FARMERS'ASSOCIATION (2500)                                                          Seice or Liaisond
___________B Farmer Groups
About 400 Acres Jute
World Bank-17096






BANGLADESH: JUTE PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
(Integrated  Rural Development System  to Channel Credit to Farmers                                          Chart  3
Directorate of Agriculture to Conduct Jute Marketing)
SCRETARY                    PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE 
AGRICULTUREINCOMTE
---_------ ----------n
Jute Farmers'                                                                                                INTEGRATED RURAL                          SONALI BANK
Nat,onal Committee  |'                       J                   _              SERVICNG                           VECP HEN                             HEADQUARTERS
I                                         /\
I~/                                                                           \
JuteFarmers'  ZONAL                                                                                    INTEGRATED RURAL
Jute Farmers'    .  _       _-_ .   ZONAL OFFICES         -      - _     COORDINATING .                      DEVELOPMENT PROJ.                                E
Zonal Commttee                                                               COMMITTEE                       ] DISTRICT OFFICE                              OFFICE
I/                                                                                 \
/                  Jute Saeles     |
toCoporations
/ ~~~~Traders,Mills 
Jute FarmersI  THANA CENTRAL
t   -  -        UNIT OFFICE                                      -  -  -  -  - -           COOPERATIVE                                BRANCH
Unit Committee                                t                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASSOCIATION                    OFFICE
village Cooperatives
aiud comprise                    Village                      Village                     Village                      Village
L   One Jute Block                    Cooperative                   Cooperative                 Cooperative                  Cooperative                       Control
with Farmers                      Part of                       Pert of                     Part of                      Part of               -           Service or Liaison
organi.aed into                   Jute Block                    Jute Block                  Jute Block                  Jute Block            ......Credit
8 groups                                                                                                                                                   J   Sales
6 contact Farmers/Group                                                                                                                                     Jt  ae
Total 400-600 Farmers
About 400 Acres Jute
Note: There would be some Theaes with mome than one Jute Unit. In those cases the Thueu Central Cooperative Association
mould service 5 jute blocks for each unis and may operate more than one Jute storage and baling center.                                       World Bank-t 7337-






BANGLADESH: JUTE PROJECT
DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE (JUTE)
HEADQUARTERS ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTOR
Advisors
Project Management                ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR
Marketing
Administration/Finance Unit                                                                   Technical Unit                            Marketing Unit
Building             ~~~~Extension Specialist
Engineer                      Plant Protection Specialist
Admin istration                                                                  Agronomy Specialist                            Marketing Officer
Officer                                                                      Training Specialist
Senior                      Establishment
Accountant                  Section
Accounts
Section                    Audit Section
WOrld Bank-17095






Bv.D 12 61RI
N                                                                                                                       1A. LAt - 979
BANGLADESH
*                                                       . .. . .. . .                  -.   JUTE   PROJECT
n   t     e<                     t.}  g             -        . - -             .              .  .         .                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .. . .
¾                                 X                               <  #  *i),et ~g   << .v E  v _.   ....JAT  DXc a,,  M,rnesipcjh, Tcrg flt, Comnij  4
U,     A  J P <ttlSdmqri   -                  - ,;p,    \ ga  <  .  >     -             -     r           f trr Arnta, kRa,  e spr, Diff pur, tatu)
<~~~~ n n ~~~~~~~~<0GR   _-~                                                                                     "Nv    'X S_2-T r   ~.tmsrt
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X   , - -  5  > f.,    0 r   \              M >'t}9    ~   ¢  ~- ---                                      b-O$
~~~DHA   *                                                                 * ;         rn~t
0   S         J 5 MeeO          s                       '              -                         -AC  H7?)                         x   S     j
.~~~~~~~~~~0g                          _.                       '  %o,       ,' \( t        
- -JESSORAE             FARIDPUR                                                                    '
L               KhLfi0A 'LW-~'                                    o             BS)  r  L  
.   . .  ;0    .                  'AT 0 A < l A L  . i        ;    t      0                       <                      \~~~~~~~. 
- ~ ~   ~     ~      ~    ~     K     U     N .  a.\ -00 -.  -                                                     - - ;      
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~ .'.   ', . -L -J                        ' '. ...          '     -        '',,- ,  A'  '   TTTS C! .Ir;  S   R     )
'AHI 'n'"i.-  'hITT.   f.  C
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 -ISHS r   °    12  20   30 4C   50 L L A
oC ..ogorl              rV-.0OfC40,r00 t0                2i     0 U I                                                                     2r
aj,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~hsCo 0 .tdb            00er0 -h                    .t.2
00                     Or~~~
.  9   sLWIILANO             *wyft*sajt,*bojts                                                                                     \ 7  t
F  -  .   j           :        rt&ft¢=                ¢1t                               91,                               eZ KHXLK



