FILE  COPY                                Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2203-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
JUTE PROJECT
January 17, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound floats relative to the
US Dollar and consequently, the Taka US Dollar rate is
subject to change. The rate below has been used through-
out this report, except where stated to the contrary.
US$1                   Tk 15.0
Tk 1                   US$0.067
Tk 1 million  =        US$67,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)           5        0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile (mi)                    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile                  640 ac (259 ha)
(sq mi)
I maund (md)          =        82.27 lb. (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (MT)    -         26.8 md
1 katcha bale jute   =         4 md
I pucca bale jute    =         5 md



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADA     -   Assistant Director of Agriculture
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
BADC    -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BJRI         Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
BKB     -    Bangladesh Agriculture Development Bank
(Bangladesh Krishi Bank)
DAJ     -   Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
DEM     -   Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
HYV     -    High Yielding Varieties
IJCS    -    Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
IRDP    -    Integrated Rural Development Program
ISO     -    Input Supply Officer
JEA     -    Jute Extension Assistant
JEO     -    Jute Extension Officer
JFA     -    Jute Farmers' Association
KSS     -    Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity)
SMS     -    Subject Matter Specialist
TCCA    -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
T&V     -    Training and Visit (extension system)
GLOSSARY
Block     -    Smallest unit in the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme - 200 or 400 acres jute.
District  -    Administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are
19 Districts in the country.
Katcha
bale     -    Jute bale compressed by manually powered press,
weighs 4 maunds.
Paddy     -    Unhulled rice.
Pucca
bale     -    Jute bale compressed by hydraulic press, weighs
5 maunds.
Thana     -    Administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are 413
thanas in the country.
Unit      -    Intermediate unit in the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme - formed by 5 to 10 blocks - about 2,000
acres jute.
Zone      -    Largest unit in the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme - formed by 25 units - about 50,000
acres jute.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance
l of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_~ __ 






BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:           US$21 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Relending
Terms  :        Part of the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be passed
on to Sonali Bank at a rate of 3% per annum.
Purpose:          The proposed project, through the on-going Intensive Jute
Cultivation Scheme (IJCS), is intended to bring about:
(a) a higher productivity in jute cultivation; and
(b) better marketing for raw jute. The project would,
over a five year period, aim at: (a) raising yields and
reducing cost of production of jute on 1 million acres
by improved extension activities (including provision of
housing and transportation for jute extension workers)
and credit; (b) establishing a pilot jute marketing scheme
aimed at increasing farmers' returns; and (c) improving
production and marketing equipment (seed drills, hand
hoes, storage sheds, baling equipment, etc.).  In addition,
technical assistance would be provided through consultants;
the project would include overseas training of staff, local
training of selected farmers and project evaluation
services. Improved marketing practices, in particular
through the pilot marketing scheme and ultimately through
the establishment of intelligence and price management
mechanisms would contribute to stabilizing the supply of
jute fiber and goods around a level adequate to meet the
requirements of local jute mills and for export at compe-
titive prices. The increases in jute yields and reduction
in production costs achieved through the project would
enable Bangladesh to either: (a) maintain jute produc-
tion at present levels and release approximately 400,000
acres for paddy growing or alternatively, (b) use its
improved competitive position to capture a larger share
of the world market for jute and its substitutes. In
practice, the actual situation resulting from the project
would presumably be a combination of these two alternatives,



- ii -
with some increase in the total jute production and some
decrease in the jute acreage in non-IJCS areas. The eco-
nomic rate of return is sensitive to the level of jute
prices on the world imarket. There is a risk that the
project might encourage production of raw jute beyond the
level of which it can be sold at economic prices. Parallel
efforts, designed to establish effective systems for price
management and marketing, are intended to minimize this risk.
Project Costs:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ million) ----
I.   Short-Term Credit            7.03    3.35       10.38
II.   Implements                    1.23     -         1.23
III.   Extension Services            9.43    2.41      11.84
IV.   Marketing Infrastructure   0.53    0.20          0.73
V.   Technical Assistance         0.18    0.35        0.53
Base Cost Estimate               18.40    6.31       24.71
Physical Contingencies            0.56    0.24        0.80
Price Contingencies               5.69    2.08        7.77
Total Cost (with
contingencies)                 24.65    8.63       33.28
Financing Plan:    Bangladesh
Government       Sonali Bank        IDA      Total
------------------(US$ millions)---------------
5.82            6.46           21.00      33.28
Disbursements:      --------------------(US$ million)-------------------
Bank FY          1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Annual            0.1      3.4      4.0     6.5      7.0
Cumulative        0.1      3.5      7.5    14.0    21.0
Rate of Return:    Above 50%
Appraisal
Report:           No. 1587-BD, dated D)ecember 29, 1977



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR
A JUTE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$21
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a jute project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD dated September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission was in the field in November 1976 and its report entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Economic Performance and Development Policy Issues" (Report No. 1469-BD,
dated May 19, 1977) was distributed on May 23, 1977.
Introduction
3.        The Basic Economic Report described the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlined a course of action to maximize the development
of the country's resources. The high ratio of population to natural re-
sources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weaknesses of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP of between 2% and 3.5% per year in
real terms over the five years 1973-78, the variations within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid.
4.        Overall economic progress since independence, however, has been in-
adequate. Agriculture output remains insufficient for a population growing at
close to 3% a year. Industrial output, heavily dependent on imports, has been
affected badly by scarcity of foreign exchange. State enterprises have been
hampered by management deficiencies, excessive government controls, shortages
and price regulation. Exports have been stagnant and finance less than half
of import needs. Bangladesh also has been severely affected by an adverse
shift in its terms of trade since 1973. Trade problems are compounded by
dependence on annual food imports of 1-2 million tons, even in years of favor-
able weather, and by heavy reliance on imported industrial raw materials. Gov-
ernment revenue has been insufficient to meet current and development expend-
iture needs. Bangladesh has had to depend on large flows of external assist-
ance to support its development effort.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Sixth Imports Program Credit
(Report No. P-2155-BD), dated November 2, 1977.



- 2 -
5.        The present Government, in power since November, 1975, rules by
martial law. General Zia Rahman, the Army Chief of Staff, serves both as
President and Chief Martial Law Adiministrator. The two chiefs of the other
defense services serve as Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators. The
three service heads and fifteen civilians form a President's Advisory Council.
Each of the members has responsibility for one or more ministries. General
Zia Rahman's political program was endorsed by an overwhelming majority in a
referendum held in May 1977.  This program includes national elections in
December 1978 and local elections, at the municipal and district levels, this
year: municipal elections have already taken place, while district elections
are scheduled for December 1977 (Urnion Councils were elected in January 1977).
6.        The current Government has introduced some economic reforms, such as
a reduction of producer and consumer subsidies, a tax on agricultural income,
liberalized imports and an improved climate for private investment and private
sector participation in domestic and foreign trade.  Steps have also been taken
to disinvest about 300 industrial enterprises and to grant greater functional
autonomy to public corporations. In the financial field, the Bangladesh Gov-
ernment (GOB) has continued to pursue prudent monetary and fiscal policies.
However, the fundamental problems of the country - namely overpopulation, weak
administration, inadequate infrastructure, insufficient foodgrain output and
inadequate resources for development - continue to confront Bangladesh.
The Current Economic Situation
7.        On July 1, 1975, Bangladesh initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with a standby arrangem,ent with the IMF. Its principal elements
consisted of a credit restraint program and elimination of deficit financing,
combined with some import liberalization. This was preceded by a devaluation
of 58% in May 1975, which subsequenitly, as a result of a link with the Pound
Sterling, has led to a cumulative de facto depreciation of 90%. The record
so far is that the credit restraint program has been a success: after an
estimated rate of inflation of about: 80% in 1974, prices declined by 10% in
1975, and price stability has continued to be a major objective in 1976 and
1977. The import licensing program was relaxed during FY76; besides increas-
ing allocations to an average of 95%' of entitlements, licenses were renewed
on expiry and there is greater fungibility in the use of exchange allocations
for selected categories of imports. Improvements in this area continued in
±iY77: import requirements of all public corporations and high priority
private sector industries were fully met, the role of the Trading Corporation
of Bangladesh was further reduced, and the list of items permitted under the
Wage Earners' Scheme for imports by the private sector was enlarged.
8.        The economy of Bangladesh was relatively stable in FY77.  Population
continued to grow at the high rate observed in recent years and the dependence
on food imports to meet internal deficits continued. Export earnings showed
a modest increase. Adverse weather affected the rice and jute crops, reducing
output. However, the impact on prices was mitigated by recourse to stocks.
A drawdown of foodgrain stocks, in conjunction with imports, helped to moderate
an escalation of foodgrain prices in the first half of 1977. Likewise, jute
exports were maintained at about the previous year's level by utilizing jute



- 3 -
stockpiled from previous years. Monetary and fiscal policies were designed
to stimulate production and to moderate the rise in prices. Despite emerging
shortages, therefore, the rate of inflation in FY77 was restricted to about
12%. Increased incentives were offered for the export of non-traditional ex-
ports and import liberalization was accelerated. Greater opportunities were
offered for participation of private enterprise in economic activity. Overal7l
economic management continued to consolidate-albeit slowly-the progress that
has been evident in recent years.
9.        The agricultural sector did quite well in FY76 with overall pro-
duction increasing more than 10%. Favorable weather was essentially respon-
sible for the good harvests. The output of foodgrains rose to a record level
of 13.0 million tons. This was reversed in FY77 when, as a result of cyclones
and floods, foodgrain output declined to an estimated 11.8 million tons. The
declines were concentrated in the autumn (Aman) and spring (Boro) crops. As
a response to the lower harvests domestic rice prices began to rise sharply
in the first quarter of 1977, prompting the Government to import about
100,000 tons of foodgrains with its own foreign exchange resources. Since
that time, the Government has imported a further 280,000 tons of foodgrains at
a cost of US$70 million. While weather continues to be an important element
in the determination of harvests in Bangladesh, attention has to be paid to
the improvement of agricultural support institutions and input delivery serv-
ices as well as marketing systems. The small-scale irrigation program (com-
prising low-lift pumps, and shallow and deep tubewells) is a major input in
the improvement of farm productivity. The program needs to be designed to
ensure greater coverage, efficiency in the maintenance of equipment and punc-
tuality in delivery of the service. Procedures for the allocation of fer-
tilizer, though much improved, still require simplification. The Government
has expressed an intention as part of an approach to a comprehensive food
policy, to increase the procurement price for rice and reorganize and improve
the marketing, storage, and distribution network. It has also announced that
it would increase the price of foodgrains sold through ration shops, change
the proportions of ratinned rice and wheat in the ration system in favor of
wheat, and ensure greater selectivity in the distribution of rationed food-
grains. In order to achieve a greater degree of food security which would
help it to carry out these measures in a satisfactory fashion, the Govern-
ment has announced that it wishes to increase its foodgrain stock to about
I million tons by the end of June 1978, and to have a pipeline of imports of
about 500,000 tons, to wiLisLaiid unfoteseen contingencies.  The achievement
of the target foodgrain stock will depend on the efficiency of the domestic
foodgrain procurement program, a satisfactory level of imports and appropriate
pricing and distribution policies for rationed foodgrains.
10.       The performance of the industrial sector has improved considerably
in recent years. Capacity utilization has increased as a result of an im-
provement in the supply of raw material and spares, combined with a ration-
alization of the retail distribution network. The managements of nationalized
enterprises now have greater autonomy with respect to operational matters.
Inventory control has also been improved, and there is a closer relationship
between input and output prices. The jute industry, which accounts for a
significant share of total industrial output, as well as being a dominant
foreign exchange earner, still continues to have problems relating to



efficiency in production. In FY77, as a result of a shortage of raw jute and
buoyant international demand for raw jute, the Jute manufacturing industry had
to pay very high prices for raw jute. This exacerbated the problem of profit-
ability; the losses of the industry are estimated at Tk 533 million in FY77.
Balance of Payments
11.       The impact of the good foodgrain harvests and the policies and
measures instituted in FY76 were reflected in Bangladesh's FY77 balance of
payments. The restrictive monetary and fiscal policies of FY76 were con-
tinued in FY77 and they continued to restrain demand. This, plus reduced
requirements for food imports and lower import prices, reduced the value of
total imports by 27%. Export earnings showed an increase of 5%. Exports
benefitted from a favorable climate for non-traditional exports which, in
addition, were stimulated by a package of incentives. New items were added
to the list of export products elig:ible for export performance licenses;
the income tax rebate on earnings derived from non-traditional exports was
doubled; exporters were qualified for preferential credit and interest rates;
and priority was accorded them in the issuance of import licenses for the
purchase of raw material and machinery. These incentives contributed sub-
stantially to the large expansion, estimated at 36%, in the value of non-
jute exports. Consequently, the tratde deficit is estimated to have declined
from US$909 million in FY76 to US$537 million in FY77. The current account
deficit in the balance of payments is estimated to total US$512 million.
However, since external aid disbursements in FY77 are estimated at US$572 mil-
lion, inclusive of a cash grant of US$50 million, Bangladesh's international
reserves are estimated to have risen by US$72 million to US$285 million at
the end of June 1977. This would be equivalent in value to about three
months anticipated imports in FY78.
12.       The balance of payments gap is expected to worsen in FY78 as a result
of a marked increase in the trade deficit. Export earnings are expected to
maintain the momentum of recent years and increase further to about US$425
million, principally due to a further increase in non-traditional exports.
However, the supply of jute is likely to be constrained as a result of a low
level of stocks, while the scope for further increases in export prices is
limited by competition from synthetic substitutes. The value of imports is
projected to rise by US$337 million i(36%) over FY77. This is principally a
result of food imports of 1.6 - 1.7 million tons (double that of the previous
year) and an expansion in imports of raw material and other consumer goods.
In FY77, certain basic stocks were run down, especially of such items as
cotton, rock phosphate, cement clinker, pulp, soda ash, steel scrap, and
crude soya bean oil. Increased capac:ity utilization in industry and the
drive to contain inflation will necessitate larger imports in FY78. The
Government has also accelerated the liberalization of imports: essential
industries are now permitted to import raw materials and spares to meet 8 to
11 months of requirements. Further, for the first time, items such as cotton
yarn, coconut oil, tires and tubes, and dyes and chemicals can be imported
under open general license. The amortization of external debt will also
rise in FY78. Bangladesh will have to repay approximately US$30 million to
the IMF over and above its normal debt service. Hence, despite a 45% increase
to US$816 million in anticipated disbursements from external aid, Bangladesh
expects to reduce its international reserves by about US$32 million in FY78.



- 5 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
(million US$)
FY75      FY76       FY77       FY78
(Actual)  (Actual)   (Actual)  (Projected)
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         -1,402    -1,290 /b    -937       -1,274
Merchandize Exports (f.o.b.)            358        381        400         425
Trade Balance                     -1,044       -909        -537        -849
Other Current Account                     7          1         25          15
Current Account Balance           -1,307       -908        -512        -834
Other Receipts and Payments (net)       272 /a    122          46          50
Amortization:  Long-term debt           -25       -78         -21 /c      -13
Short term capital movements
(net) (including IMF)                 62                    -13 /d     -51
Changes in Reserves (-=increase)       -196        50         -72          32
External Capital Disbursements          924       814         572         816
of which:
Food                              389        307         128        286
Commodity                         386        378         220        300
Project                            145       129         174        230
Cash                                 4        -           50         -
/a Includes US$260 million of outstanding letters of credit.
/b Includes an estimated settlement of US$24 million of outstanding
letters of credit carried over from FY75.
/c Including repayment of US$6 million on USSR Wheat Account.
jd Including refund of a deposit of US$21 million made by the Kuwait
Central Bank.
Source: Bangladesh Planning Commission and Bank estimates.
The Medium Term Development Focus
13.       In its memorandum for the July 1977 Bangladesh Aid Group Meeting,
GOB spelled out the focus of its development strategy for the medium-term.
Agriculture continues to be the cornerstone of its program. Within agri-
culture, the emphasis will be on an intensified Rural DevelopmeiaL Strategy
which seeks "growth with equity" in the distribution of benefits. Strong
efforts are being made to include many of the landless and unemployed in
works related to the building of rural infrastructure. Efforts are being
made to expand the acreage of high yielding varieties of seed, to intensify
"Food for Work" programs, to step up agricultural input programs and to
improve the efficiency and capability of agricultural support institutions.
An intensive production program to increase output by 500,000 tons has been
launched in connection with the forthcoming Aman crop and programs to increase
the output of pulses, oilseeds, tobacco, sugarcane and tea-are being planned.
It is too early to say to what extent the Government's intentions will be
translated into realistic programs of action, but they represent an essential
recognition of priorities.



14.       In the industrial sector, capacity utilization has improved in a
number of industries and the supply of raw materials and spares has improved.
The Government has started to reorganize public enterprises, which account
for a major share of industrial output, in order to improve management and
labor productivity through, among other measures, providing them with more
autonomy in matters such as staffing.
15.       The weak administrative framework, the frequent overlapping of
functions, and insufficient decentralization of authority have been important
reasons for delays in the execution of projects. The Government has indicated
its intention to remedy these defects and has taken positive steps to reduce
administrative bottlenecks impeding project execution. Discussions are under-
way with the Government concerning provision of technical assistance (with
IDA funding) to the Planning Commission in the fields of overall planning and
project preparation. Project preparation and implementation cells are being
set up in Ministries and Public Sector organizations to identify, develop,
and monitor projects. A study to determine measures to strengthen the capa-
bilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation is under way, with assistance from IDA.
16.       Despite a substantial fiscal effort in recent years, Bangladesh
continues to depend heavily on foreign assistance, to finance the bulk of
its development expenditures. The Government has indicated its intention
to reduce this dependence and to imiprove its efforts to mobilize domestic
resources. In FY77, total revenue is estimated to have increased by 11%,
about twice the projected rate of growth of GDP. Some new taxes and reduc-
tions in subsidies have been introduced: (a) a tax on urban non-agricultural
land and a tax on agricultural land holdings in excess of 8.4 acres; (b) a
water charge levied at 3% of the gross increased benefit accruing to bene-
ficiaries of the Ganges-Kobadak, North Bengal Deep Tubewell, and Dacca-
Narayanganj-Demra Projects; and (c) a 20% increase in the price of fertilizer.
17.       Population planning is being given high priority and is an integral
part of the Government's economic growth strategy. The Government, with the
assistance of IDA and other donors, has developed a program which emphasizes
a multisectoral approach including motivation, communication, and education.
This involves a major effort in training medical and para-medical personnel,
in co-ordinating several agencies and in devising programs for research and
evaluation.
18.       The policies and measures initiated by the Government represent a
good start. Yet they are no more than a beginning in tackling the major
problems of expanding the output of foodgrains, increasing domestic resource
mobilization, promoting exports and improving administration. Successful
implementation of the measures already initiated and formulation of additional
measures are necessary in FY78.



- 7
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLkDESH
19.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and 11)A in Augitst 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concennrrl-ed on rpartivation
of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits to Pakistan
before the independence of Bangladesh.  Eleven such credits in an aggregate
amount of US$148.55 million (including US$44.1 milliorn for the repayment of
amounts that had been disbursed under the corresponding previous credits to
Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made to BangladcGh. In addition.
as of November 30, 1977. 22 new credits, excluding the consolidation credit
of US$31 million referred to in paragranh 20. have bef,ade totalling
US$674.3 million.  Of these US$425.0 million have beern fLo  Lf-ve program
credits.  The project credits have emphasized agricuilt"rA. levei.pii,. 7 1
also included amounts for population, telecnmuni_tn   transport and
industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member of IFC. IFC
is currently considering several possible proiects and a request fron the
Government to provide technical assistance in developii-, a capital ruarket.
20.       Agreement has been reached between the- v         ,r-.t-t and most of the
bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assutmption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh became indepen-
dent. This will lead to some increase in debt service from the levels now
prevailing.  Currently, the debt service tatio is abur  1L%.  A1ill_ it is not
expected to exceed 20% over the next several years, iL nay do so by the Lid
1980s unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid provided
on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank Group,
Bangladesh has agreed to accept liability for certain debt for projects
visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence. A consol-
idation loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit of about
US$31.0 million were signed on February 14, 1975.  The Banlk Group's Rhare of
Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is not expected to rise significantly
over the next few years from the present level of about 22~'.
21.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of November 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.  Present disbursement performance unlder the program credits
is satisfactory.  In contrast, disbursements uinder nroiecr credits nave lagged
far behind expectations.  Reasons for this include d_Lays in the release of
local funds, clearance of contracts, employment of consultants and appointment
of needed staff. The Government has taken steps aimed at eliminating the most
pressing of the bottlenecks and it is hoped that this will lead to accelerated
project implementation. The release of local funds for projects to semi-
autonomous government agencies now requires one application per year instead
of the previous requirement for quarterly applications. The approval of the
President is no longer required for contracts; the ceiling for contracts which
can be approved directly by the proiect implementing qpencies has been raised
from Taka 700,000 to Taka 10 million.  Similarly, the requirement that the



President approve all consultants' contracts has been waived; this responsi-
bility now devolves upon the ministries responsible for the project agencies
concerned. Finally, the authorization of the appointment of staff is being
made automatic in the case of approved projects.
22.        The IDA project lending program increasingly has concentrated on
the rural sector, and specifically on food production.  The Ashuganj Fertilizer,
Barisal Irrigation, Karnafuli Irrigation, Rural Development, Agricultural and
Rural Training, Muhuri Irrigation, Shallow Tubewells and Extension and Research
Projects as well as the proposed project, all fit into this strategy. Other
priority projects at an advanced stage of preparation include a foodgrain
storage project. While development of the rural sector must have top priority,
the growth of other sectors cannot be neglected. Particular emphasis should
be placed upon projects which provide infrastructure for the rural sector,
which process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the strain
on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Finally, emphasis must be placed
upon improving Bangladesh's project preparation and implementation capability.
Given its low per capita income, Bangladesh is heavily dependent on foreign
assistance to help finance its investment requirements. In view of Bangladesh's
difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits cover all foreign exchange
costs.    Taking into account the level of financing expected to be available
from other external lenders, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sec-
tors (such as agricultural and rural development) where the percentage of
foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency
expenditures is also justified.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Agriculture dominates the economy.  About 90% of the population
lives in rural areas mostly dependent on agriculture. The sector accounts for
55% of GNP, 75% of all employment an,d over 80% of all exports. In recent years,
the sector has been unable to feed the rapidly increasing population, expand
export earnings significantly and provide adequate employment to the largely
unskilled and illiterate labor force.
24.       Practically all the cultivable area of 22.5 million acres is already
under cultivation and future production gains will require more intensive land
use and higher yields. Total cropped area was 30.1 million acres in 1974/75,
a cropping intensity of 134%. Rice, the most important food crop, covered
24.2 million acres and jute, the most important cash crop, 1.4 million acres.
25.       While soils are fertile ancd temperatures allow year round cropping,
agricultural development is constrained by serious natural difficulties. The
country is dominated by the delta of the greatest system of rivers in the world
which, together with monsoon rains (75% of total precipitation falls in three
to four months), cause widespread flooding during part of the year. IThilc
5.5 million acres are flooded annually, only about 2.5 million acres are irri-
gated during the dry season from November to May. The rivers make transport
difficult, and facilities for moving farm produce and inputs are inadequate
and expensive. In addition, cyclone disasters are frequent. Perhaps even



- 9 -
more restrictive are socio-economic factors. Some 30% of village dwellers are
landless. Among farmers who own land about 50% cultivate 2.5 acres or less,
fragmented into four or five plots. Even large farmers are small by world
standards.
26.       Generally, Bangladesh farmers are hardworking and receptive to
proven improved farming practices. However, their efforts are often frus-
trated by inadequate agricultural research and advice, and inadequate supplies
of inputs and credit. The Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) developed
by the Ministry of Agriculture has shown encouraging success in increasing
yields by delivering correct advice, credit and inDuts to jute farmers. It
therefore forms the basis for the proposed project.
Jute Production Trends
27.       Jute has been an internationally traded commodity for more than
180 years. Jute is mainly used for packaging, carpet backing, ropes and wall
hangings. However, demand, which expanded steadily until the mid 1960's, has
declined since then, due to changes in packaging technology and competition
from synthetic substitutes. More recently, jute exports suffered from the
recession in the industrialized world. World production of jute expanded
from the mid-1950's to the mid-1960's at a rate of over 4% per year, but with
marked yearly fluctuations. Since that time, world jute production has tended
to stagnate, although it has continued to fluctuate widely from year to year.
Keen competition for cultivable land for food crops has kept the acreage under
jute from expanding significantly in the two largest producing countries -
India and Bangladesh; that situation is unlikely to change in the foreseeable
future. At the same time, jute yields in India and Bangladesh have remained
essentially unchanged over a long period of time.
28.       Bangladesh's share of the world jute market represents about 75%
for raw jute and 45% for jute goods. Jute plays a crucial part in the
Bangladesh economy. Almost half of Bangladesh's farmers grow jute. Jute pro-
vides about 80% of export revenue and is the raw material for the most import-
ant industry. Bangladesh's ability to compete in the world fiber market is
affected seriously by low levels of productivity of land under jute and by
year to year fluctuations in production that result from variations in the
jute/paddy price relationship and changing weather conditions. Moreover,
because the productivity of jute cultivation has been low and the marketing
system weak, jute mills have been able to buy raw jute only at relatively high
prices which have affected their ability to compete with synthetic products.
This has been a major cause for the losses sustained by the jute mills.
29.       There is a strong case for trying to eliminate these weaknesses,
in particular by concentrating efforts on improving productivity of jute
cultivation and marketing of raw jute. Measures are also needed to improve
the efficiency of jute manufacturing; steps for improving-jute manufacture
have been taken under the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Imports Program Credits
(Credits 591-BD, 676-BD and 752-BD).



- 10 -
Jute Production
30.       The climate and most of the soils of Bangladesh are particularly
suitable for jute production. Ample water supplies for growth and for retting
give the country an advantage over others in the quality of its jute. Varie-
ties of both Capsularis and Olitorius species are grown. The former resistL
flooding and constitutes about 60%-70% of the crop. On average, a total of
about 1.7 million acres is under jute. About 0.5 million acres of lo'vland
is sown to jute every year because other crops are not competitive there.
Another 0.5 million acres come under jutc as part of the pattern of crop
rotation.  Beyond this base of I million acres, the acreage planted to jute
fluctuates according to the jute/rices price relatinnship.
31.       Jute areas are grouped into three regions:  the Jat, Northern and
District (see map). The heaviest jut'e producing adlinistrative districts
are Mymensingh (Jat), Rangpur (Northern) and Faridpur (District). Because
of better soil and plentiful retting facilities, jute in the Jat area gives
higher yields and is of higher qualit:y than jute grown in other areas. The
proposed project would concentrate oni expanding improved jute cultivation in
the Jat areas and in Rangpur and Fariidpur districts which together contain
about three fourths of the total jute acreage. Because of a higher proportion
of seasonally flooded and water logged land, about 80% of the jute in the Jat
and Northern areas is Capsularis, whereas it comprises only 40% of the total
in the District with a higher proportion of well drainsd soils. In parts
of the Northern and District areas retting water is scarce and this factor
depresses fiber quality. In addition, the Northern area lacks storage and
baling facilities and is remote from the jute manufacturing and fiber ex-
porting centers, so that jute farmers there have greater difficulties with
jute marketing than in other areas. The pilot marketing component of the
proposed project would therefore pay particular attention to this area.
32.       Since most farmers have continued to use traditional methods for
jute production, yields have stagnated for decades at about 3 bales per acre.
Yields up to 6 bales per acre have however been obtained by farmers who have
adopted Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI) recommendations.
Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS)
33.       This scheme startcd to ftmcticn in 19J73 and by. 1971 covered about
0.3 million acres. It is executed by the Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
(DAJ) of the Ministry of Agriculture which arranges credit and inputs for
participants and teaches them improved practices including: (a) use of good
seed of recommended varieties; (b) seed dressing to prevent plant disease;
(c) line sowing and improved weeding methods; (d) correct sowing and harvest-
ing times; (e) correct fertilizer use; and (f) plant protection mainly against
insect pests.  The IJCS extension service is separate from the general exten-
sion service, which is concerned with all crops other than jute and also
comes under the Ministry of Agriculture. The IJCS extension service has been
using, with suitable adjustments to meet the particular requirements of the
crop, the Training and Visit (T & V) extension system, a system which has
been implemented successfully in several other countries and which has recently
been adopted by the general extension service in Bangladesh. The T & V system



- 11 -
relies on regular visits to farmers by field extension agents, close super-
vision and control at all levels and regular in-service training.
34.       In 1976, IJCS was organized into nine zones (each headed by an
Assistant Director of Agriculture-ADA), which in turn are subdivided into 150
units of about 2,000 acres (each supervised by a Jute Extension Officer-JEO),
and 1,500 jute blocks of 200 acres (each with a Jute Extension Assistant-JEA).
Farmers are organized into Jute Farmers' Associations (JFAs), each coinciding
with a block, to provide a focus for extension and to facilitate the distri-
bution of inputs and credit by DAJ. JFAs have formed committees at unit,
zonal and national level to exchange experience and to discuss problems.
Only JFA members can participate in the IJCS.
35.       The combination of concentrated extension services and effective
distribution of inputs and credit through JFAs has been successful. A Gov-
ernment evaluation, confirmed by a sampre survey in which the Bank assisted,
showed that jute yields of participants in 1975 averaged 4.5 bales per acre
compared to 2.9 bales outside the scheme, whereas net returns per acre were
estimated at Tk 765 and Tk 330 respectively. The National Economic Council
of Bangladesh approved the scheme in 1976, thus establishing high priority
for funding IJCS.
36.       Implementation targets have not been achieved.  As'against the goal
of covering 0.7 million acres by 1976, only 0.3 million acres were in fact
covered. Inadequate finance and lack of personnel have been the main con-
straints. The situation has improved recently and there is now adequate staff
for the 0.5 million acres that IJCS is presently estimated to cover. Some
major handicaps remain. JEAs lack accommodation and transport, and farm im-
plements are not available in sufficient quantity. Extension officers are not
as effective as they could be because they have to spend considerable time on
administrative tasks and lack technical back-up experts. Finally, for expan-
sion on a larger scale, the credit program needs strengthening. The proposed
project would address these deficiencies.
Research
37.       The Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI) under the Ministry of
Jute is organized into three Directorates -- Agricultural Research, Technology
Research and Seed Multiplication. The Agricultural Research Directorate, with
a staff of 40 scientists, carries out plant breeding and research into culti-
vation practices, plant protection and retting. There have been few advances
since a package of improved practices was identified over ten years ago. Work
has been handicapped by lack of land at BJRI but a new main research farm is
now under development. The Asian Development Bank (ADB), through the Jute
Seed Project, and the UNDP, through the related Jute Seed Research and Produc-
tion Project, are helping to finance development of research farms, equipment,
transport, experts and overseas training. This should help to step up research
activities and no additional investment is needed for the time being. BJRI is
already providing training for IJCS staff, but linkages between research,
extension and farmers is inadequate. The proposed project would seek to
strengthen this link.



- 12 -
Inputs
38.       The Seed Directorate of the BJRI is responsible for production and
distribution of certified jute seeds. Its present annual capacity is about
750 tons of seed, enough for about 200,000 acres under jute. The entire supply
is reserved for IJCS. Seed quality is satisfactory, but because seed pro-
cessing facilities are inadequate, supplies are subject to weather conditions
at harvesting time and therefore fluctuate from year to year. In the current
season, for instance, supplies have been inadequate.  The ongoing ADB Jute
Seed Project aims at providing processing facilities and expanding production
to 2,000 tons of seed per annum which would be enough to renew all jute seed
once every three years.  Implementation has been slow to date, but the project
is forecast to be in full operation by 1979.
39.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), which
also comes under the Ministry of Agriculture, has developed an efficient
fertilizer supply system for IJCS. Jute staff inform BADC of the require-
ments, which are delivered by a BADC subagent appointed for each jute block.
When fertilizers were scarce, BADC gave priority to meeting IJCS requirements.
However, at present, fertilizer stocks are plentiful and BADC is expanding
its storage facilities, with help from USAID. The fertilizer supply system
is considered to be adequate over the next few years to satisfy the needs of
the proposed project. For the longer run, IDA is financing a fertilizer mar-
keting and distribution study to help BADC to reorganize and strengthen its
distribution network and to identify investment requirements to cater for ex-
pected increases in fertilizer demand for all crops.  If additional facilities
are warranted, IDA would be prepared to consider providing finance for them.
40.       Pesticides are stocked at thana level by the Directorate of Agri-
culture (Extension and Management) of the Ministry of Agriculture and sold to
farmers at half the cost. The Government is investigating the possibility of
involving the private sector in the pesticide trade as a means of improving
formulation and packaging of materials according to farmers' requirements.
Such a change would be acceptable to IDA. However, deliberations are at an
early stage and the outcome is as yet uncertain. In the meantime, the exist-
ing system is serving IJCS farmers adequately.
Credit
41.       A recent IDA Agricultural Credit Review mission to Bangladesh
pointed out that operations of the two main agricultural credit agencies --
the Bangladesh Cooperative Bank (BJSB) and the Bangladesh Agriculture Devel-
opment Bank (BKB) -- are seriously constrained by the large amount of outstand-
ing loans in default. IDA, in cooperation with ADB, is providing technical
assistance to the Government to help strengthen these two institutions and
their operations, as well as make the whole system of agricultural credit more
effective.
42.       To improve the availability of institutional credit to farmers pend-
ing a reform of the whole system, the Government has asked commercial banks,
which are owned by Government, to provide agricultural credit. Sonali Bank,



- 13 -
the largest commercial bank, has taken the lead in this field. As part of its
agricultural credit operations, Sonali Bank is, against Government guarantee,
already providing inputs credit to IJCS (amounting to Tk 4.7 million in 1976)
by lending to DAJ, which onlends to farmers. Loans are for six months and
recovery in 1976 was 90%. Loans are only made to JFA members and credit dis-
cipline is imposed by the provision that no new credit can be obtained by
members of any JFA for which the repayment rate falls below 75%.
43.       With its strong deposit base, large and expanding branch network
and experience in agricultural lending, Sonali Bank would be well qualified to
meet all IJCS credit requirements as is envisaged under the proposed project.
The Sonali Bank's management is keenly interested in expanding assistance of
this type to smallholders and is prepared to extend US$6.5 million equivalent
of its own funds as credit to IJCS.
44.       In another move, the Government has recently decided that all insti-
tutional credit for agricultural development, both short and medium term, carry
interest at about 12%. This decision brings to an end the wide disparities
in interest rates that existed previously between various agricultural programs
that were causing considerable difficulty to those institutions charging inte-
rest at higher rates and the farmers served by them. The current outlook for
inflation in Bangladesh suggests that, at the nominal level proposed, interest
in real terms would be positive. The review of the agricultural credit system,
which has just been initiated (with assistance from IDA and ADB - paragraph 41),
will examine what it costs the institutions engaged in agricultural credit to
make such credit available and recommend what arrangements should be made to
ensure that such costs are adequately covered.
World Market Prospects
45.       With 85% of Bangladesh jute production exported in roughly equal
quantities of fiber and manufactured goods, the share Bangladesh obtains
of the world market for jute and similar fibers essentially determines how
much jute the country should grow. Assuming continuing technology changes,
competition from synthetics, and unchanged jute/synthetics price relation-
ships and supply conditions, world jute consumption is projected to grow
very slowly up to 1985. This overall projection is the combined result
of forecasts of substantial growth in consumption in producing countries
and of some decline in the volume traded internationally.
46.       Short term export prospects for Bangladesh remain reasonably favor-
able. In the longer term, however, the size of the jute market will depend
in large measure, first, on Bangladesh's ability to stabilize the supply of
raw jute - thus avoiding the recurrent shortages, and consequent sharp price
increases that have hurt jute in its competition with synthetics - and to
reduce the cost of production through increases in productivity; and, second,
on the success of research and development efforts to find new uses for tra-
ditional products as well as new uses for jute. Without taking account of
the beneficial effects of improvements in these directions, Bangladesh's share
of the market for the 1980's has been projected by the Bank, at 0.5 million MT



- 14 -
fiber and 0.5 million MT goods, equivalent to about 5.5 million bales. With
about 0.5 million bales required for domestic use, total jute production of
about 6 million bales would be needed to meet market demand. At this level
of production, in 1985, Bangladesh -jute exports would fetch an estimated price
of US$344 per ton of raw jute (in 1977 constant dollars). With an increase
in productivity there are opportunities for Bangladesh for reducing the cur-
rent acreage under jute. With 1 million acres under the IJCS, 6 million bales
could be produced on an area roughly 0.4 million acres less than that currently
under jute. It is not possible now to say how the acreage potentially avail-
able for other uses will most economically be employed. The proposed project
would lower jute production costs by about 23% in financial terms and by about
31% in economic terms. Tentative analysis conducted by the Bank indicates
that by lowering the export price by 10%, which would be possible with the
lower farm production costs, Bangladesh may be able to expand exports by up
to 20% to an equivalent of 6.6 million bales. Thus, if the international
market develops as now forecast, it may well be desirable on economic grounds
for at least part of the potential surplus in acreage now under jute to con-
tinue to produce jute. Alternatively, the supply situation for rice, domes-
tically and internationally, may be such as to make it more economic for this
acreage to be transferred to paddy cultivation. In any event, the fact that
the supply of cultivable land in Bangladesh is so limited will ensure that
any land available for release from jute will be used productively.
Domestic Jute Marketing
47.       In order to strengthen the competitiveness of jute in the inter-
national fiber market, domestic marketing, in particular, requires attention.
Domestic marketing involves farmers, a variety of jute traders, jute mills and
Government corporations. Most farmers sell small, ungraded lots of jute at
village markets to village middlemen. The product may change hands a number
of times, as it is assembled into larger lots before it reaches large traders
or Government corporations in secondary markets. The Government declares a
minimum farmgate price, the present level of which is adequate as an incen-
tive to jute growers. However, the Government has been unable to ensure that
farmers receive no less than the minimum price. Government jute corporations
under the Ministry of Jute are meant to be active at all stages of marketing.
By purchasing from farmers, they are supposed to ensure that the farmer receives
at least the minimum price. However, the corporations have too few centers
(only 280) to reach farmers; in 1975, less than 2% of corporations' purchases
were directly from farmers. The corporations have also suffered from severe
management and financial problems. In an attempt to solve these, in early
1976, GOB amalgamated four corporations into two. However, problems have
persisted, and the corporations are failing in their task of providing effec-
tive competition to the private sector. The failure of the Government to
enforce the minimum purchase price of raw jute has exacerbated fluctuations
in production from year to year. In particular, when there is a heavy crop,
most farmers have to sell at lower prices to middlemen; as a consequence,
farmers tend to switch acreage from jute to paddy, with the result that the
following year the jute crop is short- of existing demand so that prices rise
sharply, thus setting in motion another cycle of over- and under-production.



- 15 -
48.       In addition, there are other weaknesses in the present system
of marketing jute in Bangladesh that have the effect of either diminishing
the incentives to farmers for economically efficient production or making
raw jute more expensive to the end user than it need be. Short weighing
and down-grading by middlemen are widespread and often the quality of jute
is adulterated by middlemen by adding water and sand so as to increase the
weight at sale to the Government corporations or large traders. Also, lute
marketing is constrained by inadequate storage and baling facilities in the
production areas; movement of large quantities of ungraded and unbaled jute
overburdens the limited transportation system and increases the marketing
cost. Furthermore, the present pricing system makes only small allowance
for grade differences, so that there is little incentive for farmers to
improve jute quality.
Jute Marketing and Pricing Mechanism
49.       Stabilization of jute supplies, to ensure that production is in line
with market requirements, would be a key requirement for the success of IJCS.
For this purpose the Government should design an effective jute and paddy
pricing mechanism based on supply and demand information, production and
marketing costs and the interrelationship of jute and paddy prices. An IDA
Foodgrain Price Policy Review Mission has recently examined the requirements
for a foodgrain pricing mechanism, and has recommended establishment of a
high level interdepartmental Food Policy Commission that would advise the
Government on all policy aspects that affect foodgrain production and supplies.
Jute price and production policies affect foodgrain supplies and it might be
appropriate to have jute also covered by the Commission. The Commission would
only be effective if adequate services were established to monitor and analyze
farmgate prices and for collecting data of cost and returns on crop production
as well as marketing. Alternatively, the Government may prefer to establish a
separate but equally high level jute policy commission which could commission
and supervise market and cost studies and would advise the Government on
domestic and export prices and market opportunities. Such commission would
need to collaborate closely with the Food Policy Commission. Besides having
regard to the alternative use of land for paddy production, pricing policies
for jute should be aimed at maintaining export prices at stable and competi-
tive levels vis-a-vis synthetics while maximizing long-run economic benefits
through achievement of an economically optimal mix between raw jute and jute
goods exports, through prices that, throughout the chain from producers,
through traders, to exporters of raw jute and jute mills, are commensurately
attractive. The policies should allow for prices to be flexibly adjusted in
response to short-run changes in demand and supply conditions without disrupt-
ing the long-term objectives. Further, while the policy should be aimed at
ensuring adequate and stable supplies of raw jute to mills and for export, it
should also provide growers with an adequate return and jute mills with reason-
able raw material costs after taking farm-to-mill marketing costs into account.
A study of the pricing policies and internal marketing of raw jute and jute
goods, and world export markets for the same products, is expected to be
undertaken shortly. The aim of this study would be to establish an effective
marketing intelligence and price management mechanism for raw jute and jute
goods (paragraph 59).



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       In June/July 1975 an IDA mission visited Bangladesh to undertake
a crop sector review, which included jute. The mission's main conclusion was
that significant increases in agricultural production could be achieved by
reorganizing and strengthening the extension services and agricultural
research. The proposed project was prepared subsequently by the Government
staff with the help of the Bank's Resident Mission in Dacca. The project was
appraised in November/December 1976. Negotiations for the proposed Credit
took place in Washington, D.C. in October 1977. The Appraisal Report
(No. 1587-BD, dated December 29, 1977) on the project is being distributed
separately. Attached as Annex III is a supplementary Project Data Sheet.
Also attached is a project map (IBRD map 12761).
51.       Project Concept.  The proposed project is intended to cope with the
problems outlined in paragraphs 28-29, 36-37 and 47-48. Thus, the project,
through the on-going Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS), is intended
to bring about (a) higher productivity in jute cultivation and (b) better
marketing for raw jute.  Specifically, the project would aim at:  (a) raising
yields and reducing cost of production of jute on I million acres by improved
extension activities and credit; (b) establishing a pilot jute marketing
scheme to increase farmers' returns; and (c) improving production and market-
ing equipment. Improved marketing practices, in particular through the pilot
marketing scheme and ultimately through the establishment of intelligence and
price management mechanisms would contribute to stabilizing the supply of jute
fiber and goods at a level adequate to meet the requirements of local jute
mills and for export at competitive prices. Production on the 1 million acres
under the project (which include the 0.5 million acres estimated to be pre-
sently under IJCS - paragraph 36) is projected to increase from about 3.7
million bales to about 5 million bales per year, thus providing the bulk of
the country's jute supply. To help avoid overproduction of jute, the Govern-
ment has provided assurances that, before undertaking any expansion of IJCS
beyond 1 million acres, it would ensure that such expansion: (a) is economic-
ally justified, on the basis of medium- and long-term world supply and demand
prospects for raw jute and jute goods; and (b) would not adversely affect the
operation of the proposed project (Section 4.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement - DCA).
52.       Extension Staff.  The project would continue the "Training and
Visit" (T&V) system of extension work hitherto successfully organized by JEAs
visiting Jute Farmers Association groups on a fixed day once every two weeks.
JEAs are supervised by Jute Extension Officers (JEOs) who also tour on a fixed
schedule. JEAs would now cover 400 acres each, instead of 200 acres, which
would be possible given the back-up support that the project would provide
them; thus no additional JEAs, over and above the existing 2,500, would be
needed. The extension methods applied for the project would be acceptable
to IDA (Section 3.20 of DCA). The project would, over five years, support
the additional administrative, technical and extension staff needed to expand
IJCS to 1 million acres, and to deal with distribution of equipment, credit,
agricultural inputs and field research and demonstrations. The project



- 17 -
would emphasize the expansion of middle level IJCS personnel required to
implement the T&V extension system. The incremental IJCS staff would include:
9 senior administrative and technical staff for headquarters, 11 Assistant
Directors of Agriculture (ADA), each with a deputy ADA at the zonal level,
and 250 JEOs and support staff. In addition, to relieve extension staff of
administrative burdens, 500 Input Supply Officers (ISOs) would be employed
to deal with distribution of equipment, credit and inputs. Also, 40 Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs) would be appointed, two to each zone (a plant
protection specialist and an agronomy/extension specialist), to provide
technical back-up to other field staff, conduct field research and demon-
strations and participate in training of JEOs and JEAs.
53.       Housing, Offices and Transport.  The ability of Jute Extension
Assistants (JEAs) to serve jute farmers adequately is impeded by lack of
housing in the villages in the project area and inadequate transport facil-
ities. The project, therefore, includes construction of 2,500 houses to
enable extension workers to live in the area of their extension responsi-
bility, and vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles to provide adequate mobility
to field extension workers and supervising staff. Each house would include
a small office/store as well as a meeting place where the JEA would meet
groups of farmers. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that these houses
would be built in accordance with construction standards acceptable to IDA
(Section 3.07 of DCA). A local consulting firm would be employed to design
these houses, assist the Government with the preparation and evaluation of
tenders for materials and help supervise construction. The consulting firm
would also help refine DAJ's basic design for the storage sheds and assist
DAJ in supervising the construction of these sheds. This firm, with quali-
fications and experience acceptable to IDA, would be hired by April 1, 1978
(Section 3.02 of DCA). The Government has agreed to provide adequate funds
for the maintenance of the JEA houses (Section 4.02 of DCA). In addition,
250 sets of office furniture for the JEO offices, including typewriters and
calculators, would be purchased. The motor vehicles would be departmentally
owned, but motorcycles and bicycles would be purchased by the staff on credit.
Since the bicycles and motorcycles would be used for official work and to
provide enough incentives to DAJ staff to purchase these vehicles, the Govern-
ment has agreed to provide interest free credit for their financing. Assurances
have been obtained that the terms and conditions of this credit program would
be acceptable to IDA (Section 3.12 of DCA). In addition, assurances have been
obtained from the Government that appropriate travel and daily allowances would
be provided by the Government to DAJ staff in the project area (Section 4.05
of DCA).
54.       Demonstration and Field Research Materials and Equipment.  The
project would provide funds for inputs for at least one field demonstration
or field trial per jute block each year. The demonstrations and trials would
be designed by SMSs in close collaboration with BJRI staff; coordination of
the jute research program at the national level would be ensured by the
Central Coordination Committee (paragraph 67). Tile project would also
provide extension staff with teaching materials such as charts, leaflets,
posters, projectors and slides.



-- 18 -
55.       Production Credit.  Credit: would be provided to enable farmers to
purchase sprayers, fertilizer, pestiLcides and other agricultural inputs and
to hire labor for weeding and harvesting. The Government would onlend US$7.8
million from the Credit proceeds to the Sonali Bank at a rate of interest of
3%   per annum.  Together with US$6.5 million of its own resources, Sonali
Bank would have US$14.3 million equivalent for lending to jute farmers for
production purposes. The bulk of the funds would be lent through DAJ, the
present channel. In 10 thanas covered by the Rural Development Project (IDA
Credit 631-BD) and a similar Asian Development Bank project, cooperatives
(KSSs) under the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) would be the
channel.  Sonali Bank would on-lend at 10.50% interest to DAJ and7.57interest
to IRDP; the ultimate sub-borrowers, the farmers, would pay 12% interest.
Special arrangements (to be adopted by March 1, 1978) would be made to assist
subsistence farmers in joining the cooperatives involved in the project
(Section 3.15 of DCA). The current measures to establish credit discipline
(paragraph 42) would be maintained. In particular, a farmer would be excluded
from future loans, (a) if he is on default on any of his jute loans, and (b)
if he belongs to a JFA or KSS with a recovery rate on previous jute loans
below 75% (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement). These credit arrangements are
considered to be appropriate for a transitional period given the successful
repayment results to date and the inability of the cooperative system to
expand quickly enough to meet project requirements. However, it has been
agreed that, no later than September 1, 1980, the Government would provide to
IDA a review of the effectiveness of the two credit systems employed in the
project and recommendations concerning improvements in the arrangements for
supplying credit to jute farmers (Section 3.16 of DCA).
56.       Equipment.  Under the project, 25,000 seed drills and 20,000 hand-
pushed hoes would be supplied to IJCS. DAJ would own the equipment and
would distribute it to farmers' associations. The design of the seed drill
requires improvement to ensure a more even sowing rate; such improvement is
expected to result from the on-going Jute Seed Project which is beling assisted
by ADB. The Government's Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Mlanagement)
(DEM) carries a large stock of hand sprayers and assurances have been obtained
from the Government that DEM would supply, under arrangements satisfactory to
IDA, the 20,000 units estimated to be required for pest control for the project;
these units would be of a design and in condition satisfactory to the Director
of Agriculture (Jute) (Section 3.06 of DCA).
57.       Pilot Jute Marketing Scheme.  The proposed project, through the
marketing scheme, seeks to reduce costs, offer farmers an alternative sales
outlet to village middlemen, and give incentives for improving grades (para-
graphs 47-49). The project would include construction of a total of 50 stor-
age sheds, each equipped with a baling press to be owned and, except possibly
in the 10 Rural Development thanas (see below), operated by DAJ. Farmers would
deliver jute to the storage sheds. At that time, they would receive payment
in an amount equivalent to the Government's minimum price. Since DAJ has no
working capital to finance stocks it holds between the purchase of jute from
farmers and its sale to exporters or jute mills, this initial payment would
be in the form of short-term credit. Such credit would be provided by Sonali
Bank, in accordance with the arrangements employed for production credit



- 19 -
(paragraph 55). The project would include Tk 30 million (US$2.0 million) for
this purpose; of this amount, US$1.1 million would be provided out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be on-lent to Sonali Bank and the balance would come
from the Bank's own resources. DAJ would then grade, bale and sell the jute
purchased from farmers. At that time it would calculate, on the basis of the
price it obtained, the amount due to the farmer, deduct the credit advanced
well as interest due on the credit and a service charge (as well as a margin
for profit), and pay any balance remaining to the farmers. In the 10 Rural
Development thanas (paragraph 55), cooperatives operating under the Integrated
Rural Development Program (IRDP), would have the choice of either letting DAJ
operate the jute stores as in non-IRDP areas or of leasing the stores and
presses from DAJ and operating them themselves. The fees and charges to be
levied for the use of DAJ sheds would be set at a level acceptable to IDA and
reviewed annually (Section 3.13 of DCA).
58.       The aim would be to recover full capital and operating costs (plus
a reasonable margin for profit) based on the average expected use of the
project facilities, with throughput expected to build up over 15 years. By
setting its charges at such level, DAJ would avoid unfair competition with the
private traders. This is important because the intention is merely to elimi-
nate some of the weaknesses associated with the present system, not altogether
to supplant the private trade, which now performs a vital function and will
have to continue to do so. It needs to be recognized, too, that there is no
assurance that the pilot marketing scheme, although addressing an important
problem, will be a success, because it does pose difficult problems of orga-
nization and management which, despite the strong technical back-up to be
provided under the project, may prove to be beyond the capacity of DAJ. Con-
sequently, the marketing scheme would be kept to 50 sheds (of which ten would
be ready by 1979), to handle 30,000 tons of raw jute (about 3% of forecast
production for the project area). If successful, a large scale marketing
scheme would be considered for a followup project.
59.       Technical Assistance.  Two internationally recruited experts would
assist the Director of Agriculture (Jute)--a project management expert and a
marketing specialist, each for 24 months. The cost of such assistance is
estimated at US$5,000 per man-month. The Government has given assurances that
the consultants would be appointed on terms and conditions agreed with the
Association, not later than April 1, 1978 in case of the management expert
and July 1, 1978 for the marketing specialist (Section 3.08 of DCA). In addi-
tion, a suitably qualified research institute would carry out a detailed eva-
luation under terms and conditions agreed with IDA (Section 3.09 of DCA and
paragraph 72). The Government expects to obtain financing from the United
Kingdom for a study of pricing policies and internal marketing of raw jute and
jute goods, and of the world market for jute goods and jute fiber (paragraph
49). IDA is consulting with the United Kingdom on the terms of reference for
this study. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that it would
have such a study initiated by March 1, 1978 and that, by December 31, 1978,
based on the findings of this study, the Government would provide to IDA for
review, a plan (including an implementation timetable) for establishing a jute
price mechanism (Section 4.03 of DCA).



-- 20 -
60.       Training.  The project would also include 48 weeks of overseas
training for project staff and selected bankers, in particular to improve
staff experience in commodity marketing. Overseas training proposals would
be subject to IDA approval (Section 3.18 of DCA). In addition, one day train-
ing sessions would be arranged fortnightly for JEAs and JEOs and longer pre-
season courses for all field staff. The training program would be drawn up
and coordinated by the headquarters' Training Officer. Bangladesh Jute
Research Institute (BJRI) would conduct courses for senior staff, Sonali Bank
would assist in teaching administrative and credit procedures while the Jute
Ministry would train staff in jute grading. Assurances have been obtained that
the Government will cause this in-service training program to be carried out
(Section 3.18 of DCA). While most JEAs have no preservice qualifications,
this has not proved to be an impedimtent to their performance because in-
service training has been adequate. It has however, limited the promotional
opportunities for JEAs. This would be corrected by sending groups of JEAs to
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs), or other suitable institutions, for
diploma training. Details of the most appropriate syllabus and length of
course needed to bring JEAs to full diploma level are being considered by
the Government. Assurances have been obtained that, by March 31, 1978, the
syllabus and duration of training for JEAs at ATIs would be decided (Section
3.19 of DCA). IDA Credit 621-BD for the Agricultural and Rural Training
Project currently supports the strengthening of the ATI program.
Project Costs
61.       Total project costs are estimated at US$33.3 million, including
physical and price contingencies and about US$3.8 million in taxes and duties.
Foreign exchange costs would represent US$8.6 million. Excluding physical and
price contingencies, the costs of the various components would be as follows:
incremental short term credit (both for production and marketing), US$10.4
million; implements, US$1.2 million; extension services (buildings and office
equipment, transport, materials and equipment, and salaries for incremental
staff), US$11.8 million; marketing infrastructure, US$0.7 million; and tech-
nical assistance, US$0.5 million. Physical contingencies (US$0.8 million in
total) amount to 10% for civil works and 5% for transport, extension materials
and technical assistance. Price contingencies (US$7.8 million in total) have
been applied to staff pay and allowances at 6% a year; to civil works at 9% a
year and to all other costs at 7.5% a year from 1977 to 1979. Total contin-
gencies would amount to US$8.6 million or 26% of total costs.
Budgetary Impact
62.       The annual operating and maintenance cost after completion of the
five year development period would be small - about US$0.77 million, equiv-
alent to US$0.77 per farm family benefitting from the scheme. This additional
requirement compares with the Government budgetary allocations in 1976/77 of
US$199.3 million for agricultural development projects and US$511 million for
total current expenditures. Additional public revenues accruing from the ex-
port tax on raw jute and improvements in the financial position of Government-
owned jute mills resulting from any reduction in the cost of raw jute are
likely to exceed the project's operating and maintenance costs.



- 21 -
Financing
63.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$21 million would finance about 71%
of the total project cost (net of taxes and duties), representing the foreign
exchange costs of US$8.6 million and US$12.3 equivalent of the local currency
costs (for justification of local currency financing, see paragraph 22).
The Government, which would contribute US$5.8 million to the project, is ex-
pected to recover from the users the costs of bicycles and motorcycles sold
on credit (paragraph 53) and ultimately the capital and operating costs of the
storage sheds (paragraph 54). Sonali Bank is expected to contribute US$6.5
million from its own resources (paragraph 43). The Government and Sonali
Bank are expected to recover their respective components of production and
marketing credit.
Procurement
64.       DAJ would be authorized by the Government to carry out all project
procurement directly. Seed drills, hand hoes and office furniture would be
of local design and manufacture and would be purchased after local competitive
bidding using the Government's procedures. These are satisfactory to IDA.
Extension materials, mostly charts, posters, pamphlets, blackboards, etc. would
be purchased locally, while fertilizers and pesticides for field trials would
be purchased from the Government agencies which are the sole importers. Motor
vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, baling presses and office equipment would be
purchased over a four-year period and would be widely dispersed in rural areas.
It would therefore be difficult to ensure adequate maintenance and spares for
a small number of a variety of imported vehicles and equipment. They would
thus be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA; there are in Bangladesh enough
local firms and representatives of foreign firms to ensure a sufficient degree
of competition and to provide adequate services for maintenance and spares.
Small off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$10,000 each, could be pur-
chased by prudent shopping through normal commercial channels. Such purchases
would be limited to US$300,000 in total.
65.       Civil works would each be small (none exceeding US$20,000 in value),
scattered over a wide area and would be constructed over a five year period.
These works would not be suitable for international competitive bidding and
contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, following procedures acceptable to IDA. DAJ may have to provide some
materials such as cement, iron sheets and timber to contractors. DAJ would
procure such materials on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA; the cost advantages from
direct importing, if any, would be offset by storage, security and distribu-
tion problems. For all contracts exceeding US$100,000 in value, draft tender
documents and bid evaluations would be submitted for IDA review before issue
and award, respectively.
Disbursements
66.       Disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed Credit would be
made for: (a) short term credit: 55% of net incremental loan disbursements;



- 22 -
(b) pay and allowances for incremental staff: 55% of total expenditures;
(c) construction materials and civil works: 100% of foreign expenditures
and 70% of local expenditures; (d) vehicles and equipment: 100% of foreign
costs for goods imported directly, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) for goods manufactured locally, or 70% for other local expenditures
for goods procured locally; and (e) consultants, overseas training and mon-
itoring: 100% of total expenditures.
Project Organization and Management
67.       Coordination.  DAJ, Sonali Bank and IRDP would be project ir,pleern-
tation agencies.  A Central Coordination Cornmittep wnolu  coordinate the work
of these agencies and review progress of the project. The Committee. which
would meet at least every two months, would consist oL representatives of the
Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman), Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning,
Ministry of Jute, IRDP, Jute Research Institute, Sonali Bank, and the Bangla-
desh Jute Association. The Director of Agriculture (Jute) would be secretary.
68.       In addition, the work of the national Coordination Committee would
be assisted by Coordination Committees at zonal level. These Committees would
comprise the Assistant Director of Agriculture (Jute)(chairman), representatives
of Sonali Bank, BADC, Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management),
Bangladesh Jute Association, Jute Trading Corporation or Jute Marketing Cor-
poration, JFA and IRDP (if participating in the project in the zone). The
zonal Committee would meet monthly and send records of its meeting to the
national Coordination Committee. All the above Coordination Committees would
be established as a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (g) of
DCA), and assurances have been obtained that the Government would maintain
these Committees with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
(Section 3.11 of DCA).
69.       DAJ.  The Directorate of Agriculture (Jute) directs and ianages the
IJCS, including its expansion, purchase of extension implements, transport
and equipment, housing construction, employment and training of staff, pro-
vision of credit to farmers as well as the pilot marketing scheme. By May 1,
1978 additional headquarters staff would be appointed (Section 3.21 of DCA).
The DAJ Director (presently there is an acting Director with rank of Additional
Director), who is responsible to the Secretary of Agriculture, would be assisted
by a Project Unit headed by a Deputy Director. There wouild be working groups
dealing with supervision, administrative, technical and marketing matters.
The Project Unit would be assisted by a Construction Engineer and two inter-
nationally recruited advisors for project management and marketing, respec-
tively. Appointment of the Director and the Deputy Director would be a con-
dition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(f) of DCA). The Construction
Engineer, an Administrative/Procurement Officer and a Finance/Accounts Officer
would be appointed by March 1, 1978. The Government would consult with
IDA on the functions and responsibilities of, and qualifications and experience
required for, these three positions (Section 3.21 of DCA). To ensure prompt
payment of local currency expenditures, the Government would establish a proj-
ect revolving fund to be operated by the DAJ Director. This fund would be
replenished quarterly to maintain balances adequate to cover expenditures for



- 23 -
the ensuing three months (Section 3.10 of DCA). Opening of this fund with an
initial deposit of Tk 2 million would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(c) of DCA).
70.       Sonali Bank.  As described in the proposed Project Agreement, the
Sonali Bank would channel production and marketing credit to farmers through
DAJ or IRDP (paragraphs 55 and 57). In addition, signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, between the Government and Sonali
Bank would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Credit (Section
6.01(b) of DCA). Sonali Bank already has branches in 124 of 185 project
thanas and has plans to open branches in the remaining 61 thanas. It intends
to post an agricultural graduate officer to each regional office and one field
assistant per branch in the project area to deal with credit activities.
Sonali Bank would also train Input Supply Officers and IRDP staff to appraise
and monitor project credit and to keep adequate records. Its own staff would
appraise loans and monitor credit utilization. Sonali Bank would arrange for
loan repayment using mobile facilities, where necessary. Its experience in
agricultural lending makes Sonali Bank a particularly useful partner in
executing the credit components.
71.       Input Supply.  To ensure sufficient and timely supply of inputs for
the project, assurances have been obtained from the Government that it would
instruct (a) BADC to continue to supply IJCS fertilizer requirements on a
priority basis; (b) the Seed Directorate of BJRI to meet IJCS seed require-
ments; and (c) the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) to
stock adequate supplies of pesticides (Section 3.14 of DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
72.       Overall project evaluation would be the responsibility of the
Planning Cell of the Ministry of Agriculture assisted by a local research
institution (with qualifications and experience, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA) to work with the Project Unit in project evaluation.
By March 1, 1978, the Government would hire such a firm and furnish to IDA for
approval a program for project evaluation (Section 3.09 of DCA). By March 1,
1978, the formats for monitoring the various project components would be sent
to IDA (Section 3.17 of DCA).
Proiect Benefits and Risks
73.       About 1 million farm families would benefit from improved jute
production which would increase jute yields, reduce production cost per unit
of jute and consequently improve farmers' income. Nearly all would be small
farmers, over 90% owning 2 acres of land or less. Up to 100,000 families
would benefit from the trial marketing scheme which is expected - directly
and, by providing competition to private traders, indirectly - to enable
farmers to obtain higher prices than they would otherwise receive. The
project would mitigate fluctuations in the supply of raw jute and attempt
to help Bangladesh maintain its share of the world jute market.



- 24 -
74.       The project would increase jute yields and reduce production costs.
This would enable Bangladesh to either maintain jute production at present
levels and release approximately 0.4 million acres for paddy growing (Alter-
native I) or, by retaining the present jute acreage and increasing production,
use its improved competitive position to capture a larger share of the world
market for jute and its substitutes, by reducing prices (Alternative II). In
practice, the actual situation resulting from the project would presumably be
a combination of these two alternatives, with some increase in the total jute
production and some decrease in the jute acreage in non-IJCS areas.  The rates
of return of the two alternatives are both above 50%.
75.       The proposed project faces organizational and management risks
(related to the expansion of IJCS from 0.5 million acres to I million acres)
which are common to most development projects in Bangladesh. In addition,
the economic rate of return is sensitive to the level of jute prices on the
world market. For instance, under Alternative II, if Bangladesh decreased
the price of jute exports by 10% in order to increase its share of the market,
the benefits to the economy, although still over 50%, would be less than under
Alternative I. Obviously, Bangladesh will be able only up to a certain limit
to expand export sales and still obtain an economic price. There is a risk that
the project may encourage iute production to increase beyond that limit. The
world market price could also drop for exogenous reasons. If the international
price dropped by 15%, the rate of return under Alternative II would be reduced
to 20% (while a similar price decline in the case of Alternative I would still
result in an economic rate of return of over 50%). At very high production
levels, there could also be a fall in domestic prices which would damage the
position of IJCS farmers. This could also lead to the continuation of large
fluctuations in the jute/paddy price relationships and, consequently, in out-
put. Parallel efforts, designed to establish effective systems for price man-
agement and marketing (paragraphs 49 and 59), are intended to minimize this
risk.
76.       Accounts and Audit.  The Sonali Bank, Directorate of Agriculture
(Jute) and IRDP would be responsible for disbursements, and would maintain
separate accounts for the project, which would be audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of audited accounts and
auditors' reports would be sent to the Association within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of DCA). Commercial auditors satis-
factory to IDA, for the project accounts under the responsibility of the Sonali
Bank, would be appointed as condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(e) of DCA);
the Government's Auditor General is expected to undertake the other audits
required for the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUM4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Sonali Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee



- 25 -
provided for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement which are of
special interest are referred to in Annex III of this report.
79.       Special conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of DCA) are:
(a) the signing by the Government of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory
to IDA, with Sonali Bank; (b) the ratification of the execution of Project
Agreement on behalf of Sonali Bank; (c) the approval by the Government of the
Project Proformas (a PP is a Government document necessary for the alloca-
tion of funds and creation of staff positions for development projects) for
the project; (d) the appointment of auditors, satisfactory to IDA, for the
Sonali Bank; (e) the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director to DAJ;
(f) the opening of a project revolving fund for local currency payments, with
an initial deposit of Tk 2 million; and (g) the establishment of the project
Committees. A condition of disbursement (Schedule 1, 4 of DCA) for the market-
ing credit component would be that marketing and rental fees for the storage
sheds have been agreed with IDA.
80.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of IDA.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
January 17, 1978






ANNEX I
BANGLADESH          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                          Page 1 of 4
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
---------------                                  BANGINDESH                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      144.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      97.1                        1960       1b/0   ESTIMATE          BURMA          THAILAND        MALAYSIA***
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      50.0*      80.0*   110.0 */a             70.0*      210.0 *    440.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            53.9       70.8      80.4/a              27.0       36.3        10.B
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      374.0      492.0      558.0/a             40.0        71.0        33.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       566.0      730.0      828.01w            253.0       263.0       1B5.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.8       50.3       49.5                41.3       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.2       22.9       28.1                19.3        13.7       12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..     140,0      130.0                  *        80.0        40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       38.7       43.3       35.8               47.5        55.5        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5       3.1         ..                 2.7        3.2         2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                  2.7       2.8        2.1                 2.2        3.1         2.9
URBAN                                   .        6.2        7.4                 3.7        4.9         3.2
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            4.8       6.4        B.8                19.9        15.0       26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       44.7          ..      45.2               40.0        45.1        44-7/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50.1/a        *-      49.1 /b            57.0        51.8        52.1 a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     5.2fl        ..       5.7 7F              3.0        3.1         3.27a-
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0         ..       1.0                 0.8         0.9         0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6/b       *-       1.4/C               1.1/a       1.1/a       1.67
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .,        ,.       133.0/a               ..      470.0       222.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              .          ..        4. -/ag                       10.0        B.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         19400.0  24500.0  26200.0                10920.0    16700.0 /b  2900.0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          87.0       86.0      78.0               70.0        79.0        43.:Oj
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             .-        .-       15.0/d                ..          . .        6.07,b
INCOME DISTRIBUT.ION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5X OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.3 /c   18.7 /a      ..                  ..       22.0 /C    28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.5 7c   42.3 7         .                           51.1 71    56.0
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             6 9 7c    7.9 7         -                            5.6 7       3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            17.9 7    19.6 f            ,               ,,        14.3 7     11.2
DISTRIBUTIUN OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 1OX OF OWNERS              ,-      34.0 /b    ..                    ..          .
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        1.0 7       ..                 ..          .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            10000.0/d 7600.0/C          ..             8970.0     7970.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    110000.07 f72030.0 7  6B390.0/e              7540.0 /b  6650.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         11000.0oW 8120.Otj  7120.0                 1200.0      890.0        270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)            ..      88.0/e    92.0                101.0       103.0       110.0 /c
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 ..         ..      40.0               49.0        52.0        49.o 7?
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..        ..         ,,               13.0/C      17.o/d      20.0 _1
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               . .        ..         ,..                      .         ,      5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       42.0 /f   80.0 /f   71.0                 111.0       81.0        99.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      8.0 7W   15.0 7W   25.0                  21.0        16.0       34.07a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0       10.0                10.0       12.0        13.0/a
VOCATIONA.  ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                        ,.       1.0         ,,                 0.8        14.0 /e     3.o/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   . .                23.0                  ..        79.0        55.0
HOUSI NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..         .                  , ,         , ,        2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         . .        . .        .                                       65.0 /a,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..       43.0 /a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..       30.0 /a
CONSUMPPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             .        6.0          .               15.0        78.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              .       0.4         . 4/f              1.0         5.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             4.0      20.0       22.0                22.0       124.0       392.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..        0.1       0.2                 0.6         1.0         4.0
SEE----------NOTES-------------AND----------DEFINITIONS--------------__------__--ON-------REVERSE-____ --------
SEE NOTES AND DEFlNITIONs ON REVERSE



_ANYEX 
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
jnless orvoi-e noted, dact  for 1960 refer to soy year berw-en 19i9 and 1961, for 1970 between 1998 end 1970, and for Most Recent Estfiate between
1973 and 1975.
0   GNP per e-pita dote ore based on the Acrld Ban. Arlia  osthldriogy (1974-76 bhsoi).
-*   Tho 1970-75 population gro.th rare in absovIolly low doe to the effeot_ of the nor of iodependence end mass populston l                  ovements across the
borders dring that period.  Pro-ently, the aoerego popuistion growth rote is nstrfated at 2.8% per snoe.
000   Seler-on of mal-etia ab so obje-tf-e -ountry Is bhsed on Nelsynies  ster-e  in naintaititg a high tern of etconui  fOteth end adeqa-te  letel
of  welfare concurrtly nith divr-rifying its  -ononie stroctue.
BAdGLADESH    1960    /a  *e groop 15-59 and 60 and oart eepectivsly;    Lb  Ratio of pePolotion ceder 15 sod 60 apd over to total ibhor force;
/n  1963-6h;    'd  Re8istered not sIl prs-ticigg  in the counrry;    /e  G-ov            ent hoepitnl esthblish.. t  oly;
T   Approximfte enreillenct n  per-notage of populatien in 6-10 and 11-15 ape groupt re-petiy ely.
1970    Ia  1966-67;    /b  1967-68;    /i  R.gigerert    not o11 praotitieg in tho coontry;    /d  foover- ent hospital setahblilhentn
oely;    /e  Ahroage 1969-71;    /f  Apprenivato enrollennt as Percentage of popuatiaon in 6-10 and 11-15 age gronpe
reopen tiveTy.
MOST giRECT ESID'ATI:    ja  1976;    /b  Age groap li-59 and 60 and over r-spootinely;                In  Ratio of pupslatiio  nndet 15 and 60
and aver to retal  ahbr iorce;    /d  7ianly anemployed  -erkhrn seeking their flirt (ob;    Le  Tooloding
invo;  if  1972;    Ig  Percent of faea.le  .poplati-e
BLeRMA         1970    /a  Rati  of popol.nrJ-  tnder 15 and 65 and oIr to total lahbr force;    /b  Personnel in goovertent sorfoseoly;
/c 1964-66.
fH-ILrND       19 7 0          -intR   of populatio   -.,oe  16 end 65 aed eve  teeoenninsily sotive popalatino one 11 yearo ned over;    Lb  So-oni-eIly
notive popoltin  ago 1I year o and ever;    /c  urin   only;    /d  1964-66;    In  Ptbhlic nchtoi, ohith inclodeg
tehni-l edocotion at tha pot-secondary level.
MALAYSIA       1970      a  hoot MIalaysia;    Lb  Rgioot.red applioants  for cork;    /   1964-66              /d  Piped  aster inside.
RII, Octobot 6, 1977
DPFNITI(ONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
LgSa...hrts..&hblc 1052                                                                      Ponslesfon Oet note le peonn - popsianiot divided by nosher of pracnicp
Total - Total surfa-e zaroa cmprising land ares ond inlana warsos                              male and inoale graduats nurses,  trained" or "Certified' nuraea, and
_gtt     Attn _n  e t ino  ttlaten Of agricuilnural eros usssa nenpoarily or pets's-       esmilfary reranted  vitnh tra fnlngeor enpersnce
nently for trops, pnsnures, marken A kItchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Pooltstuie  Per bsepiral bed - Population divided by suber of hospital beds
naiehble in publi  and private general sod specielined hospital and
GNp net  -anfta (20$) - CNP per napita antisotes  t  -r- rventn,rket prioes,                   rehabilitatimn  centers: emolode        I totsilg homes atd esatahfishents fot
stisalculd by same nonversior o   tvbed as Woeld Bnk Altles (1973-75 bnais);                  __oondial and preventive ears
1960; 1970  and 19/5 dar.e                                                                Per caeita evenly ot esloriseif of re-sire eis             p - fmpted from engergy
tqovalan  ofnetfod aspefI  avIailable in  -otry per ..pita par dsy;
Pooulaticn  sod viral tranleroc                                                                available topplies csmptise dome-tis prodoonien, imporna iet-s pepo.t-, and
Populanion (old-year nillion)    As of Ja1v fitn:  if not -vailable, overage                   changr- in stock; net spplio- encIsde anisia  fesd, seeds, qoantites useed
of two snd-year ostivatei; 1(60, 1970 sod 1975 dta.                                          in food pree.sting and losses is diasribtion; requirents were estimated
by FAlO based o  physiological needs  Iot sornal activity and health  -onsid-
fopeatio   deeity- po  soiats  r -Mid-yea  pepulatis p-r sqare kilomter              ntip envrenetaI t-p-taer, body omighte, age end ... distribsti-t  of
100 he ters) of total area                                                                  popolatien, ed allowing l0i flr waste It hooebsid lev.-I
Peoplation deontry-per ennate kn of pgrl, land - CPnpuced as shove for                       Per caoita supply of Protein        "orane per day) - Fr-enin ne-teot of per "ep"na
agricult-ral lsnd enly.                                                                      net spply af ftod per day; nort  pply of foed is defined  asbove;requir-
-eote  for all -oonriee eathblished by USDA Eloomnic Rn..eaerh Se-oi-es
Vital  tant.srnnn                                                                              provide for a oifninu  slbosoe-  of 60 Srts of total p-ntin per day, end
Crodo bhith rato per th-ssod  average - Atnnul iIoe birtha per thoo-and of                     20 grn-a ef -niml and pnlse protein, of ohich 10 grsi ehould be animal
old-year population; rnn-yaee  arithmentic  -eotgon ending tn 1960 nod 1970,                 protn; thone ntaodnrds Ott iowan then thoea  of 7I gras sf total protein
and fie-year antregoonding in175formostreenitstimae                                          and 23 Uraafs of animal protei hs -anarage fortbewrid, propoed by FAO
Condo droth rate po  thhonsand. averae-   - Annual deaths per thousand nf aid-vert             in the Third W-old Food Srvey.
population; nn-year arithmetic avernges ending in 19f0 and 1970 snd five.                  Per caita Protein snelI fromA onioal IAd plroe - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 tnt nest teents estins.e                                         derived from aninsia and palateIsi  gtns per day.
InfIat mortality rate  A/thau   - unnual death- of itfans- onder one year of age            Dlath rote  Gthos) gspe  1-h - Annuol de-oho pet tho-sand in age group 1-4
per thoatond live births,                                                                    yearn, t  children in thio ago group; snggeserd as an  indicator of
7ife enfeerrney so birth  fort) - Overage  numbet af yetar  of life remaining ot               melnatrition.
birth; -ussily five-year avera_ en ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dtewiop-
log counttiens                                                                             EducatioD
i_  he  n rm  tio         - -aro At ctagenii-ebt of lire daShtera .    on.   n . ill bhar    Adlvted  enroilent ratio°o - peSe ro scool - ifnt deeht of all ege  as p-er
in hnrnoona  repodustive Pero.  f seePe.ionet p...ont age-apeiffo                       netgeo pelm-y soeo-ae  oplaio;  nni he oIden- aged h-il ye-t
fertility  raven   asually five-yost averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  hot sdj-tted for different lengtha of primaty edsation; for cowtriss with
Pet deoolopi,agnowotrieO.                                                                    oniversol ednuntion, en-oloment nay tensed lilT  since some papile are below
P_.olotiv_ grpvth rate  501 - total - Cpmpoond a.nnal growth ratea of oid-year                 en sbhve the offlcial tsbo-  age.
popuIltio  for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adinsted enrollpent rtio - ae-I2darv anhool -           -pred as above  seeand-ty
Ponolatti_ growth rate (Ti  - urban - computed hits growth tets of totl                       educationeequires at least sfo-  years of approved prim ay itntrootin;
PoPulation  Iiffstest definonioma of orban  reso may sife-t   omprshbilit, of               provides g-nerals  eocatiomal or tescher training in-tsrotio,  fPer pepile
data anOng enuntreai                                                                         of 12 to 10 year-  of age; correspondeee c           .orees are generally ecloded.
Urbap poPclatieo  fT of total) - Rlati  of urbat to ttotl poplation; difforee                Tes Yt  of schooling erovidsd  (first and secnd leyels) - Tosal yare of
dettitloen  of orbasoen areas may ffent conpahability of dana among -ofnbeif                 achooling  at sec-odary level, osa nise-l iFtruetion euy be partially 00
completely exeluded.
_______________-_______;n -oo yearn), wotking-age (15-64 yearn),                           Vocational  enroiLsent (7. of se-agdarn) - nowani56al in-titosion-  insclode
and retired ifs vt ra end over) as perrenteos of nid--oar popolaion.                         technical  itdoa trial or other pr-grm7s wOhO  operate ildspe-den-tI  or as
gedeed vtari  - ears of populationounder 15 atd 65 ard over to thos         dop-m-ents of o-onnd-tv ifstitutions
of ages 1l  itroogh  4.                                                                     Ldult literary rare  (f) - Literates dolts (able to read and write) as per-
iconooomfedeoetdssranio-RatioofpopI.larin -dr 15 ad 65 nd .o.rto                                nondage ofstodolnporniomased15yearsandover
the labor torte in agn crop of i5-b4 yearsy
foiyplni  - acceptora  feonslerlon. then) - Cnmulativr numb,er of acceprots                   Honsioc
of bitth-eaoteol dovices -nder a-spi-ts of nat-ioal farily platoing progre=                Persoan  pee  room (lrhanl - Anetase nusber of pere-e-  per root inaoncpied
siIoe inception                                                                              conientiotal dwellings in urban steen  d-el ings e-clade  pn-pepaen
pa-ily     .     - sers (7 of married enton) - Perrontages of married women of                 strzctorte  end unotccpied parts.
nhild-bhori.t ago (15-44 yeast) vh. 000 bihth- -ontrol devises to all married                nnE_d doelltootithPut eieed osier fli - Ot-oeled  o               ventlovsl deelasnos
nomen   somo age grnp.                                                                 In orbat od rarol areas vithoot inside oe ouiafde piped nAter fatilliie-
as percentage of all econpied dwellina.
Rpploymnet                                                                                    Scoese  no elcntrititv  (2 of all dwiite  - Conventoanal dwellings vith
lerel lahot force  ftbousand) - Economically actire persona, inclnding sarsed                   elentritity to living oarteropas portent of betel dvellinpe is orhtn sod
forces end rnem.pln.td htt -luding Aoeciven, studenrs,  cr   detinition-                     ornrl 5te5.
ilnarin  -ceottrt-s are net  -ps-hble.                                                     Rrai doeilfnoa coonnted to electrinity  (T) - Computed as above for totsl
labor force it sotto'ltnre  10) - ,tgricu_tos al  sleto fo-ct fit farming, forestry.            dweilinga oniy
hunting and fiahing) en pettentage of total labot f-rce
Unen-pioed  fT of labor forte) - Unesployed are utualiy defined  a  persons vha               fonotion
ore  ahle snd oilli,,g to take a  ob, eut of a job an a eives day, remined not             Radio teceivets   fee thfos pop) - Oil typee oP receiver- far redis htoadsssts
of a job, ated Ierhlrp voth for a speoffid nynlo period not excneding 000                    topgenerel phUbic per tbosand of  pptlani_m; enclodes unlicnserd  -e-i,-s
teek; may st he <rm1,arahle betweenocoInrti- dn-, to dilftrtnt definitfons                    in ceomtrien and in years sheen'.gtstrstfa  of radio aere v- in effent;
of une pley-d end aorta of data, e_g, _splovoo,,t offi-e  s                .s -Po.cs, asp e  dana for  --cer: y-era nap rot be  -nparsble eince most countries abolished
entreye, sozipoleor-y ,,omploynemsn insoranne.                                                licenineg.
Passenget czaps (per thon RoP2 - Paeans per eats somprise motor oars see ring
Inae discr-'Uinrs   - 1'-e-egtace of poioars finsam (bforh in  oash and kled)                   Ises than eight petsna; eelodes nboiaoces bearse  and military
receivod by rifhe-t '5,, richrst 20%, poose-t  0'7_ ard poorerIt 40% of nae-                  vehicles.
holds.                                                                                       lectrisitCY (lh/vr Y ee  nap-   - Aneual coIe-sptiom  of ind-etrial, c-o1serclas,
pnblf  and privat elecrct  io kilart boors Per -spint. ge-ar11i
iSetrlbotOoo of mond tserethie -i ercettages ef lard  -eed by onaithi-et 10%                     a-ed an prodoetian 4ta, viithoot  l   tt  for  os ses caist grrds hot allo-
and psoreoc 157/. of land   -nera.                                                            leg for imports and epertt  of electricity.
ties-teIt (ko/r no  net) - Pso nepits e-Ia  tsop io " foilopta-
health  and Nutiltio-                                                                           estimted/ Era deais  pdocti-o plu  net imports Of oewspeiet
Populatiso per ohyafelso - PPpsl-niom divided by number of practioing
physi,  /so  qualified from a ned-cal  Ihroel atniversity lvel.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 Pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPUNrT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollrs)
Av.
Actual                   Es--957timated              1960-       1965-       1973-        1967-69 1974/75 19 76/77
Av.1967..69  1972/73  1974/75           17/6   1976/77                   1965       1970        1977
NATIONAL ACCOUINTS                                                                                                     __        ___
In Constant       1972- 19,-73 Pr,ices & Exchange Rultes        Axerage Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of GIlS
Or;> f-Dmestic Procuct                                                                7616,012  583 614725 ,61.7       3.3         6.7       - 3--r1iTrTU2T
G'ains from Terms of Trade  --          89         -      -117              -145       -148                                                     1.5     -1.8    -2.0
Gross~ Domestic In,come             6,1 01    597!fl     C!3§97            7,150      7,1T.6                           25          6.2       TW:e    ThFi       100.
Impo,rt (incl. NF'S)                   879       747        703              646        500                20.6        6.8        -7.4         14.4     11.0       6.7
Exp,ts "  (import capacity             598       369        197              200         210               12.3      -14.6       -12.6          9.6       3.1    .2.8!
Re,source Sap                          281       378       506               446         290                                                    4.6       7.9      3.
Consumption Expenditures            5,666      5,617    6,403              7 ,06 2    7,230                 5.7         3.6        5.6         92.9   100).1    97.6
Investment   '1  (tori. stocks)        714       394       499               534        473                13.3        8.8         6.7         12.9       7.8      7.4
Domestie Savings                       433        16         -6               88         183                4.3       10.0        81.0          6.8     -0.1       2.4
National Savinigs                      416        32         10              110         200                8.7        20.5       57.0          7.1       0.2      2.6
MEPCHANLISE TRADE                               Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                  As Perceot of Total
Imports
C'apital goods                        .        100        135              213        268...                                    25 .7          .       16.8     28.6
Int-ermediate goods  nfel)            .        176       386               336        250                  .                    12.8           .       30.4    26.7
P'lels and related materials
of which:  Petroleum                .         23       155               126        144..                            ..       49.8           .       10.0    15.4
Consumption goods                    ,         428        726              541        275...                                     -6.6                  4Z..B    252-1
Total Merch. Imports (ntf)           547       727    1,402              1-,26r6      9376.                                                           100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary produicts (eml. fuiels)       .        145       119               156        168                  ..          .          2.9                 40.9    42.0
Fuets sod related materials
of which: Petroleum
Manufactured goods                             195        239              225         242                  ...                     .4                 59.1     58.0
Total Merch. Exports (fob             81       340       358               381        400                                         3.8                100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border Trade
Merchandise Trade indices                         Average 1972- 73 *100
Export Price index                    61       100       153               109       1ill                              .          2.4
Import Price index                   52        100       215               195        189...                                     16.3
Terms of Trade Index                118        100        62                56         59..                            ..       -11.7
Exports Volume Index                148        100        80               106        123...                                      3.9
VALUE AIDED BT SECTOR                Annual Data at 1972- 73Pcices and Exchange Rates                    Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       3,542      3,403    3,712             4,078       4,140                                                      59. .5.8          57
Industry and Mining                 420       412        466              527         567                                         4. ..77.88
Soroice                           2,050    1,848    2,146               2,333       2,504                                                      34 3824           35
Total                             6,012     5,663    6,324              6,938       7,211                                         6.1         lo(    100       100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                                   As Percent of GDP
TCentral Gov~ernment)
Current Feceipts                    317        280       469               775        877                  ..5.3                                      7.2     11.2
Current Expenditures                365       364        419               600        686                                .       34.2         6.1    6.4       8.7
Budgetary Saviogs                   -48        -84        50              175         11.                                        168         -0,8     0.8       2.5
OtEer Public Sector
Putlic Sector Investment  ~~421      239        248               295        350                  .            .        10.3         7.0     3'.8     4.9
OS $ millionl-
CUERENT  EXPENDITURE DETAI-LS                    Actual      -Estimated                             CETATIL ON                              At Av.      1972/73 P and ER
As 9 Total Current Expend.)         1969/70  1972/73  1974/75    19-75/76  1976/T77               PUBLIC SECTOR.                         F4,rst Plan    9, of Total
Education                               .        14.8      15.5         13.6      13.3-           INVESTMENT PROGRAM                      (1973/74   - 1977/ 78
Other Social Services                  ..         4.C       4.2          4.4       4.2            Social Sectors                               758          15.3
Agriculture  and                                                                                  Agriculture                                1,302          26.4
Other Ecmonmic Services               ..       11.2        7. 2        6.8        6.7           Industry and Ilining                       1,024          20.7
Administration and Defense              ..       67.4      68.1         68.8      68.9            Power                                        529          10.7
('tier                                            2.7       5.0          6.4       6.9            Transport and conaunicati-ons                802          16.3
Total Current Expenditures                     T00.       100.0o      -1700.0    100.0            Other                                        524          10.6
____________________________________________________________________________    Total ExpendItures                 4,940         100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                     i960-        1965-       1973-              FINANIClNO
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                  1965        1970         1976                  D7omestic Borrowing                      784          15.9
Average ICOR                                             .           3.74        0.89                   Public Sector Savings                 2,022           40.9
Imepsrt Elasticity                                       .          1.29         1.11                   Program, aid counterpart              1,009          20.4
Srginial Domestic Savings Rate                           ..         0.22         Q.Q5                   Foreign Project Aid                   1.125          22.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                           ..           .ss        0.05                   Total Financing                       4,940         100.0
I.ABOR FORCE ANt                                    Total Labor Force                                     Value Added Per Worker (1972   73 Plrices & Exec. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                    In Millions          7, of Total            1961 - 73           In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Aver:ge            19 70 - 73
1960/61    19 72/ 73 1960/61   1972/73  Growth Rate               1969/70   19 72/ 73    1969/70   1972/ 73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                          16.1         20,5       85         78         2.0                 ..          166          ..76
Industry                              1.0          1.8        5          7         5.0                             229         .,         105
Service                               1.8          3.9       10         15         6.7                 ..          484          .,         222
Total                                1-8.9        26.2      100        1700        2.8                248          217         100        100           -41.9
not applicable                -nil or negligible
not available                --lees than half the smallest unit shows
Note: Figures are on fiscal year basis (July 1-June 30). Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan
/I     These are criginal plan targets.



:      OzcHHHIHI                OH Hm 0P  w0 H0 0,-   .0                                            0   01      0-00          0- t  o=EoH
I o110    0.01                       X                                03aI 0z00xMw nOraz7      S  rf l    o   tI  r-    W        0 |
oC             00       H   00-                         000°70 r=    O H       -o   O    to0          00- z- =F               
00            00 o~  r                                                                                    0-1 r" z-  g     0-
F~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~4.t o                                                                  Kr |ott |H- |    || rovV 
v, W iHO               0                                 H    | 'gw,                                                 ,  ,oH  2  I    o °1 e   vI¢M11- |  S
°0°                  °     .= ro                             oH 20          0 =                 0                                                   _
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7t oo                                                                                20             1   
O-                                                       0'   0  *Gal
00  7.                                                           to   o. 
v .    n        n       7      H   It.   O  00W   nt o    H     o      .   .   I  I t  . H
0'      g0        '00000 =0     t t^&
I~~~~~~~~0 I                                                                                     01' ::oo
o~~~~                                                                     ~~~~~ oU v47            H    
r   ~              ~~~~~~~             000Ooj 0/ u4                                                                                                                  to   2W90  
VM~~~~~~~~0                         0           0                                     00     0      _     *0.. 40g00-*  
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ to                                                                             00  w -' O
|~~~~ 0                                 H         w         10   >  0      w   P       <'         W   ~   0                          00       H-



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of November 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                        Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                      Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Five Credits Fully Disbursed                                   206.4       -
339        1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)             25.0       7.6
340        1972      Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)             13.0       4.2
341        1972      Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                        14.0       2.2
343        1972      Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)           7.3       1.3
353        1973      Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)              3.0        .2
367        1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)               7.0        .7
368        1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                   13.2        .7
381        1973      Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                     19.7        .3
407        1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                   21.0       7.3
408        1973      Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                25.0      12.7
409        1973      Technical Assistance                       4.0       1.6
410        1973      Cereal Seeds                                7.5      5.8
424        1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7         1.9
487        1974      Second Telecommunications                 20.0      18.2
527        1975      Ashuganj Fertilizer                       33.0      22.7
533        1975      Population                                15.0      13.2
542        1975      Barisal Irrigation                        27.0      25.7
591        1975      Imports Program IV                       100.0        .6
605        1976      Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.0      18.1



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
BANGLAD ESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of November 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
621         1976     Agricultural and Rural Training          12.0        11.6
622         1976     Technical Assistance II                   7.5         7.0
631         1976     Rural Development                        16.0        15.8
632         1976     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.0        24.4
676         1977     Imports Program V                        75.0        41.2
724        1977      Shallow Tubewells                        16.0        16.0
725        1977      Muhuri Irrigation                        21.0        21.0
729        1977      Extension and Research                   10.0        10.0
735        1977      Inland Water Transport II                 5.0         5.0*
752        1977      Imports Program VI                       75.0        75.0
SUBTOTAL                  854.3       372.3
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association            853.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975      Consolidation Loan                       54.9         0
TOTAL                  908.8       372.3
*Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project performance has improved and, although still 2-1/2 years
behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. Following reevalua-
tion of the design, the cyclone shelter program is now moving ahead with 124
modified shelters expected to be completed between mid-and-end 1978. Strength-
ening of the shelters already constructed will commence shortly. Arrangements
for supervision of shelter construction still need to be strengthened. Four of
the five primary roads are now finished with the fifth road scheduled for
completion in 1978. The IDA financed portion of the feeder road program is
nearing completion. Construction of towers for the telecommunications sub-
project is behind schedule but was to be completed by December 1977. The
fisheries subproject, including distribution of boats to groups of local
fishermen has been completed. Work on the repair or new construction of
inland water transport terminals is almost completed.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: April 30, 1978
The project should be completed by December 1978. Delays have been
due to major flooding, labor problems, shortages of materials, equipment,
breakdowns, ineffective management, and delays in provision of local funds.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made recently both in
physical construction and agricultural extension. The main regulator is now
operational, although utilization of the irrigation works will be delayed
due to land acquisition problems (now resolved) which interfered with work
on irrigation channels. A four month extension of the Closing Date has been
agreed to allow additional time for project audits and proposals for the
recovery of water charges to be prepared. A further extension of the Closing
Date will be considered when these have been received.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 30, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the Project is expected within a year. About
90% of the wells under contract have now been drilled, and verticalitv prob-
lems have largely been corrected by the contractors. BADC has decided to
recontract for 285 wells not yet drilled.  Pumphouse construction and engine/
pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. The agricultural development
component of the project, also behind schedule, has been incorporated in the
Extension and Research Project.  Project audits are not being received in a
timely fashion. Arrangements for extending consultantsr services have been
agreed. The Closing Date has been extended to March 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been
commissioned, two years behind schedule. The contract for the fourth micro-
wave system (which substitutes the coaxial cable system in the original
project) has been awarded together with contract for similar systems under
Credit 487-BD. This system is expected to be commissioned by June 1978.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973: Effective Date: May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is administered by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and a consortium of commercial banks. In early
1976, the Closing Date was extended to March 31, 1977 to allow for disburse-
ments under outstanding letters of credit. To permit all credit funds to be
disbursed, a further extension of the Closing Date, from March 31, 1977 to
December 31, 1977 was agreed. A second project involving BSCIC and commercial
banks under revised institutional arrangements was appraised in July/August
1977.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supp1_Y Projecti__ US$7.Q Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1978
After very little moovement during the first two years because of
organizational and procurement difficulties, the progress of work in the
past three years has been satisfactory and disbursements on the project are
expected to be comnpleted by November 1978, some three years behind the



ANNEX TT
Page 5 of 11
schedule established in 1973. WASA has been in default of the financial
covenant (Section 4.03 (a) of the Credit Agreement dated April 9, 1973),
which stipulates that rates are to provide sufficient revenue to: (i)
cover operating expense, depreciation and interest; (ii) to meet repay-
ment of long-term debt to the extent that such repayments exceed deprecia-
tion charges; and (iii) finance normal extensions of the systems and pro-
vide a reasonable portion of the cost of future major extensions. GOB
approval of a tariff increase was given on November 3, 1977. This will
increase annual revenue by about 38 lakhs Taka and should, with other
measures being taken, provide Chittagong WASA with sufficient revenue to
enable it to meet the earnings covenant for FY78. A fourth extension of
the Closing Date to October 31, 1978 was recently agreed.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Project progress and the Dacca WASA's financial problems are similar
to those of Chittagong under Credit 367-BD above. A fourth extension of the
Closing Date to October 31, 1978 was recently agreed.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project, originally financed by US$19.2 million IDA Credit
No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit from the Kingdom of Sweden, was
almost completed at independence and 95% of the reactivated IDA and Swedish
credits was used for repaying the previous credits. Substantial delays oc-
curred in hiring consultants and in design and construction of ancilliary
civil works. In addition, there was serious deterioration in the silos
mechanical equipment due to inadequate maintenance and management, under
staffing in the Directorate of Silos and delays in ordering spare parts.
After January 1976, however, significant progress was made in accordance with
an action program agreed with IDA/SIDA, particularly in constructing ancillary
civil works and staffing the project agency; one silo was put back into opera-
tion, consulting services for a silo maintenance improvement program have been
obtained and jetty rehabilitation started in February 1977. The Association
agreed to a third extension of the Closing Date to September 30, 1977. The
project was completed on June 30, 1977 and a mission to prepare a project
completion report will visit Bangladesh soon.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended. US$7.7 million had
been disbursed. Progress on the Agricultural Univcrsity portion of the proj-
ect is about 30 months behind schedule due to initial difficulties in reaching



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract and shortages
of building materials and delays in the preparation of equipment lists and
furniture designs. However, significant progress has been made beginning in
late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction are expected to
be completed by June 1978 and the remlaining works by December 1979. The
University has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural train-
ing and research programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural
and rural development but further progress in this direction is needed. The
technical education portion of the project is about 30 months behind schedule
due to past delays, but is expected to be completed by July, 1978. The
graduates are facing severe problems of unemployment and a committee has been
established to revise the curriculum to make it more relevant to job require-
ments.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31. 1979
Several project elements are now nearing completion, including the
Sitalakhya Bridge, ferry improvements and the Keane Bridge which was officially
opened in June 1977. However, the Feni bypass is still seriously behind
schedule and completion is unlikely before mid-1979. Construction of the
Roads and Highways Directorate building has commenced. An action program
calling for a review of project progress against agreed targets was estab-
lished for purposes of approving an extension of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-
projects amounting to about US$3.9 million. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 2 to 3 years behind
initial estimates. The Closing Date for this Credit was extended initially
by two years, to December 31, 1977 and a second extension, to December 31,
1978 was agreed recently to permit full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule,implemen-
tation has improved considerably in riecent months. Orders for farm machinery
and laboratory equipment have recently been placed. After contract negotia-
tions with the lowest bidder for the seed processing plants broke down,
proposals for simplification of plant design were agreed and tenders are now
being processed. After substantial initial delays, work is now proceeding
on improvements at the seed multiplication farms and production of seed,
especially wheat, is increasing. The Closing Date was recently extended to
December 31, 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
was slow initially but credit proceeds are almost fully committed with 88% of
available funds disbursed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used light-
erage tankers have been procured, necessary repairs and modifications have
been completed, and the tankers delivered to Chittagong. Delivery of pipes
for connecting the oil mooring to the ERL refinery has been delayed, but an
adjacent berth is being utilized in the meantime for unloading of crude oil.
Due to delays in the procurement of fenders, commencement of oil transfer
operations was delayed, and was finally attempted by the Bangladesh Shipping
Corporation (without fenders and against the IDA-financed consultant's
advice) in July, 1977 during the monsoon. Both lighterage tankers were
damaged, one having to be taken out of service and replaced by a chartered
vessel. Additional technical assistance has been proposed to assist BSC,
which is expanding its fleet at a rate beyond its managerial, operational,
technical and crewing capabilities. This would require the Closing Date to
be extended by nine months to March 31, 1979, if the Credit is used to finance
this technical assistance.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project is about two years behind schedule due to delays in
procurement. About 30% of the Credit has so far been committed; the balance
is expected to be committed in 1978. About 60% of the appraisal targets for
local network expansion for first three years has been achieved. Work on
long-distance telephone exchanges has still to commence. A Telegraph and
Telephone Board has been established, a year behind schedule. Consultants
financed under the Credit are assisting the T&T Board in establishing a
commercial accounting system and valuation of assets.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site is being carried out to protect the
plant against earthquake risks. Site preparation should be completed in
March 1978 after which construction can commence. Currently the project is



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
about two years behind schedule due primarily to the additional site prepara-
tion and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items
and (b) planning for construction. Revised cost estimates are being finalized.
Allowing for the additional site work and the delays, costs are expected to be
significantly higher than lender funds currently available. Discussions with
Government on means of providing the project with sufficient foreign exchange
are under way.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: Septeminber 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31. 1982
The project is being colinUanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstand-
ing the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; most field staff is being recruited. Population programs in five
non-health ministries are underway. The Building, Planning and Design Unit of
the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of consultants, has completed a
master plan for the project's construction program and contracts for construc-
tion of project buildings are being awarded. Preliminary drafts of a study
on Population legislation and a management study for the Ministry of Health,
Population Control and Family Planning have been completed. Most of the
required consultants and advisors for, other parts of the project have been
appointed.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring
project consultants and in assignment of Water Development staff members to
the project, and delays in land acquisition. The staffing position has
improved and field survey and design activities are now progressing satis-
factorily. Principal field activitie!s have been survey work, procurement
of materials and housing and office construction. Two pilot areas have
been developed which have been useful in testing the project concept and in
identifying potential problems. Constrturtion of irrigaLion channels had been
delayed by problems of land acquisition but these have now been resolved.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program,; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
This credit was fully disbursed in December, iv77.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring proj-
ect consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project
began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by delays
in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. Work is now underway to prepare
construction contract documents and to facilitate equipment procurement. The
fisheries component of the project made virtually no progress until recently.
Key staff have now been appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting
firm has been signed.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. Most sites have been selected and acquired. Progress has also
been achieved in the preparation of sketch plans for project buildings and the
Government has been working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra
Rural Development Academy. The inservice training program supported under
project has been delayed due to delays in allocation of local funds; delays
are also being experienced in hiring consultants for the project.
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Five subprojects have been approved amounting to about $4 million.
Other subprojects are under consideration.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The reorganization of pump groups into cooperatives under the
Integrated Rural Development Program is being completed, and adequate progress
has been achieved in rescheduling loans. As part of a nationwide effort to
revitalize the extension system, modifications are being introduced to the
project's agricultural extension system. Procurement under various project
components, benchmark and fish pond surveys, land and draft animal registration
are in progress. After some initial delays, the construction of feeder roads
and thana buildings is proceeding on schedule. However, the project has
experienced some implementation problems in part due to lack of proper coor-
dination among the various implementing agencies, inadequate supervision of
field level staff, and inconsistencies which have developed among various
ongoing rural development programs. A mission visited Rangladesh in November,
1977 to review the implementation of this project and discuss with the Govern-
ment institutional and policy issues affecting rural development in general.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Some modifications are expected to be made to the project on the basis of
the mission's recommendations.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank PrJject; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of December 31, 1977, IDA had committed $7.7 million and $0.6
million had been disbursed. It is anticipated that the Credit will be fully
committed by December 1980 and that disbursements will be completed by the
Closing Date.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
As of December 31, 1977, disbursements were US$39.5 million.  In
addition about US$9.0 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Tender documents for enginets and pump sets for all 10,000 wells
have been agreed. A consultant for workshop management has been designated
and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and machinery
is at an advanced stage. The preparation of Thana Irrigation Maps is
expected to be completed by March, 1978.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6. 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have occurred in obtaining Government approval of the project
budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for hiring the
engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor who will
construct the Feni Regulator.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The effectiveness deadline for this project, originally September 29,
1977 was extended twice to January 6, 1978 to allow the Government more time
to complete conditions of effectiveness (approval of the project budget,
appointment of key management personnel, submission of the legal opinion,
and establishment of revolving fund) and to work out arrangements concerning
the role of field level extension personnel in some new agricultural develop-
ment programs.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Closing Date June 30, 1980; Credit not
yet effective.
Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels and navigation aids, and
for BIWTC cargo vessels have already been prepared and BIWTC lists for spare
parts for hydrographic equipment and specifications for new mobile cranes are
under preparation.  Discussions have taken place with the respective agencies
involved about the specialist services required, and procedures for initiating
enquiries and selection of suitable specialists agreed. Operational specia-
lists are now expected to be appointed by end April 1978 - four months behind
the original schedule due to the late signing of the Credit Agreement. Con-
ditions of effectiveness have yet to be complied with.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:        TimptahIp of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
About 12 months
(b) Preparation by:
Government of Bangladesh assisted by IDA
Resident Mission Staff
(c) First IDA Mission:
Crop Sector Review Mission in field June 1975
(d) Appraisal Mission departure:
November 1976
(e) Negotiations:
October 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
April 1978
Section II:       Special IDA Implementation Actions
The draft terms of reference for the studies of the
world jute market for jute goods and jute fiber, and
on the pricing policies and internal marketing of raw
jute and jute goods were prepared and agreed to in
principle prior to negotiations.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:      Special Conditions of IDA Credit
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the
signing by the Government of a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, satisfactory to IDA, with Sonali Bank; (b) the
ratification of the execution of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of Sonali Bank; (c) the approval by
the Government of the Project Proformas (a PP is a
Government document necessary for the allocation
of funds and creation of staff positions for develop-
ment projects) for the project; (d) the appointment
of auditors, satisfactory to IDA, for the Sonali
Bank; (e) the appointment of the Director and Deputy
Director to DAJ; (f) the opening of a project revolv-
ing fund for local currency payments, with an initial
deposit of Tk 2 million; and (g) the establishment of
the project Committees (paragraph 79);
(b) Before undertaking any expansion of IJCS beyond
1 million acres, the Government would ensure that
such expansion: (a) is economically justified, on
the basis of medium- and long-term world supply and
demand prospects for raw jute and jute goods; and
(b) would not adversely affect the operation of
the project (paragraph 51);
(c) A condition of disbursement for the marketing credit
component would be that marketing and rental fees,
for the storage sheds have been agreed with IDA
(paragraph 79);
(d) The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Man-
agement) would supply adequate numbers of sprayers
of design and in condition satisfactory to the DAJ
Director and to be provided to jute farmers under
arrangements satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 56);
(e) Bicycles and motorcyles would be made available to
staff of the Ministry of Agriculture under arrange-
ments satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 53);
(f) The following consultants would be appointed promptly
with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA: (i) Project Manage-
ment Advisor by January 1, 1978; and (ii) Marketing
Specialist by July 1, 1978 (paragraph 59);
(g) The Government would maintain specified project
Committees (paragraph 68);



ANNEX III
Page 3
(h) Additional project and DAJ headquarter staff would
be appointed by February 1, 1978 and April 1, 1978
respectively (paragraph 69);
(1) The Government would instruct: (i) BADC to continue
to supply IJCS fertilizer requirements on a priority
basis; (ii) the Seed Directorate of the Bangladesh
Jute Research Institute to meet IJCS seed requirements;
and (iii) the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension
and Management) to stock adequate supplies of pesticides
and sprayers (paLragraph 71);
(j) The syllabus and. duration of the training for JEAs
at Agricultural Training Institutes, or at other
suitable institutions, would be decided by March 31,
1978 (paragraph 60);
(k) The Government would conduct a review of the project's
credit operations by October 1, 1980 and would agree
with IDA on any change in the IJCS credit system
during project implementation (paragraph 55);
(1) A farmer would be excluded from future loans: (i)
if he is in defaiult on any of his previous loans and
interest; or (ii) if he belongs to a JFA or KSS
with a recovery rate on previous loans below 75%
(paragraph 55);
(m)  Studies of the world market for jute goods and
jute fiber, and on the pricing policies and in-
ternal marketing of raw jute and jute goods, with
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would
commence by December 1, 1977 (paragraph 59); and
(n) By December 31, 1.978, the Government would submit to
IDA for review a plan, including an implementation
timetable, for establishing a jute price mechanism
(paragraph 59).



,                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 127( RI
X i 9 :   .    -                   :     - . ~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
; < /   \   ' t < C; 'a7$R ji1 tj   X  w  r   h  /    NeT-oRQng t t 2 j '  z
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 S, H, II            -1 " -, * ,: . SI  -
$@"<<) Jr t"-  /tk'6 <TaxEAL ST--30/< t ;-z = t,4zt >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Ie
-  -    tj-2   '            c +ta;  >Xc_J''<,'i.~~~
- - S                                        4, E \  ,   ) \~~~~~~~~~~ YL 
:-~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                             N 0 -GZ., e or e  g  .g - q-
t . ; ; zs $ A ( JJ J < , \~~
,~~~~~~AGIIw=, tw0.$ -\(aQ
_'PA N A"[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 Io,*.\\5



