CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 765 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Jute Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 8, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 765 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 1978, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project will be carried out by
the Sonali Bank, a commercial bank operating under the laws of the
Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Sonali Bank
part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Sonali Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreeement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Sonali Bank of even date herewith, as the


﻿-2-
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Sonali Bank pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)  "DAJ" means the Directorate of Agriculturt (Jute) under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, or any successor
thereto;
(d) "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program,
an agency of the Borrower's Ministry of Land Administration, Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives, or any successor
thereto;
(e) "TCCA" means Thana Central Cooperative Association under
IRDP, an association of KSSs, at the thana level;
(f) "KSS" means Krishak Samabaya Samiti, a farmers' coopera-
tive society at the village level;
(g) "IJCS" means the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme of
the Borrower;
(h) "Zone" means an administrative area of IJCS headed by an
Assistant Director of Agriculture;
(i) "Unit" means an administrative area of IJCS headed by a
Jute Extension Officer;
(j) "Jute Block" means an administrative area of IJCS headed
by a Jute Extension Assistant;
(k) "JFA" means a Jute Farmers' Association operating under
IJCS;
(1) "Project Area" means the Borrower's territory, excluding
Chittagong, Chittagong Hill Tracts and Patuakhali Districts;
(m) "Project Revolving Fund" means the revolving fund to
be established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.10
of this Agreement;


﻿- 3 -
(n) "Sub-loans" means the loans to be made available to
farmers under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project;
(o) "BADC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporation established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(p) "BJRI" means the Bangladesh Jute Research Institute,
an autonomous institute under the Borrower's Ministry of Jute,
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto; and
(q) "Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies e,uiva-
lent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be let in accordance with the provisions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1988, and ending November 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of the Sonali Bank, and
in the event of his absence or inability to act such other off i-
cial or officials as may be designated by him, are hereby desig-
nated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken with respect
to Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that DAJ shall at all times
be staffed and managed by persons who shall have the qualifica-
tions and experience required for the effective execution of the
Project.
(c) For the purposes of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend to the Sonali Bank the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to Categories (1) and (2) of the table set


﻿-5-
forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Sonali Bank under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in preparing
and supervising the building programs included in the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than April 1, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, employ engineering
consultants (or architects) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall furnish to the Association, on a quarterly
basis, reports on the progress. of the Project which shall be


﻿-6-
consistent with the formats to be agreed with the Association
pursuant to Section 3.17 of this Agreement; (iii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iv) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause (a) its Directorate of
Agriculture (Extension and Management) to furnish to DAJ about
20,000 hand sprayers of a design and in a condition satisfactory
to DAJ and (b) DAJ to make available, under arrangements satis-
factory to the Association, such sprayers to farmers participating
in the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause DAJ to construct the
houses referred to in Part A.4 of the Project in accordance with
construction standards satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause DAJ to employ, not
later than April 1, 1978 and July 1, 1978, respectively, or
such other dates as shall be agreed with the Association, the
Project management advisor and the marketing specialist referred
to in Part C.1 of the Project and whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than March 1,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
(a) furnish to the Association for approval its proposals for
the Project evaluation program referred to in Part C.2 of the
Project, and (b) employ a research institution whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association for the implementation of such
program.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.10. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain, in a commercial bank, a Project
Revolving Fund to be administered by the Director of Agriculture
(Jute) and to be used exclusively to account and make payments for
expenditures for goods and services (excluding short-term credit
and staff salaries and allowances) required for the Project to the
extent payment for such expenditures is to be made in Takas;
(b) deposit in such Project Revolving Fund an initial amount
of Tk2,000,000; and
(c) replenish, as and when needed, the amount in the Project
Revolving Fund to a level which shall be (i) sufficient to cover
at any time the estimated local expenditures required for the
purposes of the Project for the following three months and (ii) in
any case at least equal to Tkl,000,000.
Section 3.11. In order to ensure efficient coordination in
the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
(a) the Central Coordination Committee established for the purposes
of the Project, chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture,
and whose membership includes representatives of the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Jute, IRDP, the
Jute Research Institute, the Sonali Bank and the Bangladesh Jute
Association and (b) the Zonal Coordination Committees established
for the purposes of the Project at the Zonal level, each Committee
being chaired by the Assistant Director of Agriculture (Jute)
and its membership including representatives of the Borrower's
Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management), BADC, the
Sonali Bank, IRDP (in IRDP thanas), JFAs, the Bangladesh Jute
Association and the Borrower's Jute Trading Corporation or Jute
Marketing Corporation.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall make available to DAJ's
staff the motorcycles and bicycles included in Part A.5 of the
Project under arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall annually set and collect
from the beneficiaries of the jute storage sheds included in
Part B.2 of the Project marketing fees (whenever DAJ shall operate
these sheds and sell JFAs' jute) or rental charges (whenever
TCCAs/KSSs shall operate these sheds themselves) at levels satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall take all steps required on
its part as shall ensure that IJCS requirements for fertilizer,
jute seed and pesticides for each jute season shall be furnished
by BADC, the Seed Directorate of BJRI and the Borrower's Direc-
torate of Agriculture (Extension and Management), respectively.
Section 3.15. (a) The Borrower shall cause IRDP to adopt, not
later than March 1, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, modified membership regulations satisfactory
to the Association in favor of farmers participating in the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause IRDP to take, in the follow-
ing thanas of the Project Area: Kotwali, Gabtali, Sariakandi,
Muktagacha, Trisal, Gaffargaon, Raiganj, Kazipur, Serajganj and
Ullapara, all steps required on its part to enable all farmers
participating in the Project to join (i) existing KSSs or (ii) new
KSSs to be established in accordance with criteria and a schedule
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall, not later than September 1,
1980 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
furnish to the Association for review a plan for the future
organization of IJCS credit operations based on the assessment of
the effectiveness of the credit systems in operation under the
Project.
Section 3.17. The Borrower shall, not later than March 1,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
prepare formats, satisfactory to the Association, to be used for
monitoring the various components of the Project.
Section 3.18. For the purposes of Parts C.3 and C.4 of the
Project, the Borrower shall prepare and implement training pro-
grams which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.19. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
prepare and thereafter implement programs, satisfactory to the
Association, for training Jute Extension Assistants at Agricul-
tural Training Institutes or at such other institutions as shall
be agreed with the Association.
Section 3.20. The Borrower shall cause DAJ to organize and
implement its annual extension work programs in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.21. The Borrower shall (a) not later than March 1,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
appoint in DAJ's headquarters an Administrative/Procurement
Officer, a Finance/Accounts Officer and a Construction Engineer;
(b) consult with the Association on the functions and responsi-
bilities of, and qualifications and experience required for, the
positions referred to in (a) above prior to making any such
appointment; and (c) cause DAJ to appoint for its headquarters,
not later than May 1, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, the administrative and technical staff
referred to in Part A.3 (i) of the Project, excluding the officers
referred to in (a) above.
Section 3.22. For the purposes of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause Sub-loans made to farmers to be
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, provided
that no Sub-loans shall be made to the farmers referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) and (c) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DAJ and IRDP to (i) estab-
lish separate accounts for the purposes of the Project; (ii)
have such accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain or cause to
be maintained the buildings, vehicles and equipoent provided under
the Project and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs
thereof; and (b) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 1,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association, to assist the
Borrower in carrying out (i) a study of the Borrower's marketing
and pricing procedures and policies for raw jute and jute goods
and (ii) a study of medium and long-term world supply and demand
prospects for raw jute, jute goods and jute substitutes; and (b)
furnish to the Association for review, not later than December 31,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, a
plan (including an implementation schedule) based on the results
of the studies referred to in (a) of this Section, to establish,
in consultation with the Association, and thereafter maintain
improved jute pricing mechanisms.
Section 4.04. Until December 31, 1982, the Borrower shall,
before undertaking any expansion of the area covered by IJCS above
one million acres: (a) ensure that such expansion shall (i) not
adversely affect the operation of the Project and (ii) be economi-
cally justified, on the basis of medium and long-term world
supply and demand prospects for raw jute and jute goods; and (b)
inform the Association of any such expansion.
Section 4.05. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall make available to DAJ's extension staff adequate amounts for
travel and daily allowances to enable such staff to promptly carry
out their functions and responsibilities under DAJ's annual work
programs.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 11 -
(a) the Sonali Bank shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Sonali Bank will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the by-laws of the Sonali Bank shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Sonali Bank to
carry out its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Sonali Bank or for the suspension of its operations,
unless arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have
been made to replace it by other banks or financial institutions
which shall assume and perform all its functions in respect of the
Project and covenants under the Project Agreement upon such
dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower and the Sonali Bank; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Sonali Bank has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;


﻿- 12 -
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and the Sonali Bank, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(c) the Borrower has established the Project Revolving
Fund and has deposited in such Project Revolving Fund the amount
referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) the Project Proforma has been approved by the Borrower;
(e) the auditors referred to in Section 3.02 (i) of the
Project Agreement have been appointed;
(f) DAJ's Director and Deputy Director have been appointed;
and
(g) the Borrower has established the committees referred to
in Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Sonali Bank, and is legally binding upon the
Sonali Bank in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Sonali Bank and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Sonali Bank in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 9, 1978 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrover;
Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 14 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By Is/ M.R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Short-term credit            4,700,000         55% of eligible
under Part A.1                                expenditures
of the Project
(2) Short-term credit            1,100,000         55% of eligible
under Part B.1                                expenditures
of the Project
(3) Salaries and al-             2,200,000         55% of local ex-
lowances of incre-                            penditures
mental profes-
sional staff re-
ferred to in Part
A.3 of the Proj-
ect
(4) Vehicles, equip-             2,500,000
ment and mate-
rials
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured and                            expenditures
procured ex-                            ex-factory
factory
(c) other local                              70% of local
procurement                             expenditures


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Civil works                  5,200,000        70%
(6) Experts' and con-            1,000,000       100%
sultants' services
and training
(7) Unallocated                  4,300,000
TOTAL       21,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "eligible expenditures" with respect to Cate-
gories (1) and (2) means:
(i) until December 31, 1978, the increment of the
aggregate principal amounts of loans disbursed in
1978 by the Sonali Bank under IJCS over the aggre-
gate principal amounts of loans disbursed by the
Sonali Bank in 1977 under IJCS; and
(ii) thereafter, the increment of the aggregate princi-
pal amounts of loans disbursed by the Sonali Bank
in any fiscal year under IJCS over the maximum of
aggregate principal amounts disbursed by the Sonali
Bank under IJCS in any previous fiscal year.


﻿- 17 -
The said "eligible expenditures" shall be recorded in audited
statements to be prepared by the auditors specified in Section
3.02 of the Project Agreement and furnished to the Association by
the Sonali Bank.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement and (b) expendi-
tures under Category (2) until the levels of marketing fees and
rental charges to be collected by the Borrower in accordance with
Section 3.13 of this Agreement have been approved by the Associa-
tion for the first year of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 18 -
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as,
in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are (i) to support a five-year
program under IJCS to improve jute production in the Project
Area, on about one million acres, by helping farmers to increase
yields and reduce production costs and by providing technical
assistance and training and (ii) to introduce a pilot jute
marketing scheme aimed at improving marketing efficiency and
increasing farmers' benefits. The Project consists of the follow-
ing parts:
Part A.   Production
1.   Provision of short-term credit to farmers through DAJ or
TCCAs/KSSs to finance fertilizers, hand sprayers and the
hiring of weeding or harvesting labor.
2.   Provision of about 25,000 seed drills and about 20,000
hand hoes to farmers.
3.   Appointment of additional staff required by DAJ to
carry out its five-year expansion program, including
(i) about 9 senior administrative and technical staff
for DAJ's headquarters, (ii) about 11 Assistant Direc-
tors of Agriculture, (iii) about 20 Deputy Assistant
Directors of Agriculture, (iv) about 250 Jute Extension
Officers, (v) about 500 Input Supply Officers and (vi)
about 40 Subject Matter Specialists.
4.   Construction of about 2,500 houses for Jute Extension
Assistants and provision of office equipment to DAJ.
5.   Provision of vehicles for DAJ's staff, including about
24 motor vehicles for headquarters and zonal staff,
about 10 speed boats for Jute Extension Officers and
Assistant Directors of Agriculture, about 1,060 motor-
cycles for Deputy Assistant Directors of Agriculture,
Subject Matter Specialists, Jute Extension Officers and
Input Supply Officers, and about 2,500 bicycles for Jute
Extension Assistants.
6.   Provision of demonstration and field research materials
and equipment.


﻿- 20 -
Part B.   Pilot Jute Marketing Scheme
1.   Provision of short-term credit to farmers through
DAJ or TCCAs/KSSs for marketing.
2.   Construction of about 50 jute storage sheds equipped
with baling presses with an aggregate storage capacity
of about 400,000 maunds.
Part C.   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of about 24 man-months of project management
expert assistance and about 24 man-months of marketing
expert assistance to the Director of Agriculture (Jute).
2.   Appointment of a research institution to implement a
detailed Project evaluation system.
3.   Carrying out of an overseas training program for
selected staff of DAJ and the Sonali Bank and selected
JFAs' members.
4.   Carrying out of in-service training programs for Jute
Extension Officers, Input Supply Officers and Jute
Extension Assistants.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works, construction materials, vehicles,
baling presses, office furniture and equipment, seed drills and
hand hoes shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.    Fertilizers and pesticides shall be procured through local
shopping.
3.    Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may
be procured through local shopping, provided that the aggregate
of all goods so procured shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World


﻿- 22 -
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines) or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


