CONFIRMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 765 BD
Project Agreement
(Jute Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SONALI BANK
Dated February 8, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 765 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 1978 between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SONALI BANK.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Sonali Bank agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS the Sonali Bank, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project
Section 2.01. The Sonali Bank shall (a) carry out Parts A.1
and B.1 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, economic and financial
practices, and (b) shall provide, out of its own resources, funds
required for the purpose, such funds to be equivalent, in the case
of loans to be partly financed under Categories (1) and (2) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement, to 45% of the loans made to DAJ and TCCAs/KSSs
under Section 2.02 of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. For the purposes of making Sub-loans to farmers
under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project, the Sonali Bank shall make
loans to DAJ and TCCAs/KSSs on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association which shall provide, inter alia, that, except as
the Association may otherwise agree: (a) no loans will be made
available by TCCAs to any KSS in which members' defaults in the             v
payment of principal and interest required under sub-loan agree-
ments entered into between such KSS and its members for jute
production in the preceding three years represent more than 25% of
the aggregate amounts of the principal of, and interest on, such
sub-loans made by such KSS;
(b) no Sub-loans will be made to farmers belonging to JFAs
(for production, at the Block level and for marketing, at the Unit
level) in which members' defaults in the payment of principal and
interest required under sub-loan agreements entered into between
DAJ and such members for jute production in the preceding three
years represent more than 25% of the aggregate amounts of princi-
pal of, and interest on, such sub-loans made by DAJ; and
(c) no Sub-loans will be made to farmers who have failed
to make payment of principal or interest or any other payment
required under any sub-loan agreement entered into with DAJ or any
KSS.
Section 2.03. The Sonali Bank shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Sonali Bank shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) The Sonali Bank shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project, the perfor-
mance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) The Sonali Bank shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. The Sonali Bank shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. The Sonali Bank shall: (i) have its accounts
established for the purposes of the Project (including the
accounts recording the amounts of loans made by the Sonali Bank to
DAJ and TCCAs/KSSs under IJCS for each fiscal year) and its
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its accounts and financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Sonali Bank and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Sonali Bank thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Sonali Bank of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Sonali Bank:
Sonali Bank
P.O. Box No. 147
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:             Telex:
GANABANK                   SB-HO-DAC-740
Dacca


﻿- 5 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Sonali Bank may be taken or
executed by the Managing Director of the Sonali Bank or such other
person or persons as the Board of Directors of the Sonali Bank
shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. The Sonali Bank shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
the Sonali Bank, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the Sonali Bank pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SONALI BANK
By Is! M.R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative


