Report No. PID5749
Project Name                     Mauritius-Environmental Sewerage and ...
Sanitation Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Other Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                       MUPA1921
Borrower                         Government of Mauritius
Implementing agency              The Waste Water Authority
Ministry of Public Infrastructure
M. Reshad Laulloo, Director
5th Floor, Aisha Building
Louis Pasteur Street
Port Louis, Mauritius
Telephone: (230) 242 64 44
Fax: (230) 208 64 97
PID Preparation Date             May 30, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         July 15, 1997
Projected Board Date             January 15, 1998
1. Country Background. Mauritius is one of Africa's success
stories. A well-educated and skilled labor force enabled Mauritius
to diversify its economy in the 1970s, from sole reliance on sugar
production to include tourism and light manufacturing. By 1993, per
capita income had reached US$3,000 per annum, from the 1973 level of
US$400.
2. Sector Background. Forty percent of Mauritius' population of one
million are urban residents. Economic growth has lead to a high
level of urban services: all urban residents have access to water
and sanitation facilities, however many of the latter are in
desperate need of maintenance, rehabilitation or replacement.
Accelerated economic growth has also led to municipal and industrial
pollution at a level that threatens human and environmental health.
The 1990 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) identified
inadequate disposal of urban wastewater as a growing threat to the
quality of groundwater resources and marine and coastal ecosystems.
The Government of Mauritius (GOM), in promoting the NEAP
recommendations, developed a Sewerage Master Plan (SMP), to be
implemented through the National Sewerage Program. The proposed
project comprises a portion of this Program, and, as such, is phased
into and supported by other program implementation activities, many
already underway with financing by other donors (EU, CFD, KfW, BADEA).
3. Project Objectives. The proposed project will address severe
wastewater pollution from heavily urbanized areas of Port Louis, the
capital city and targets the southern districts, the industrial
zones, and the affected coastal zone. The main objectives of the
project are to: (i) improve health and sanitary conditions of the
populations in these areas; (ii) reverse the current trend of



environmental pollution on the island and its coastal zone; and
(iii) support Government efforts to implement priority institutional
and technical measures identified in the SMP.
4. Project Description. Project objectives will be achieved by two
project components (a) an institutional strengthening component to:
(i) strengthen the structure and staff capacity of the Waste Water
Authority (WWA) to provide and manage wastewater services, with the
eventual contracting-out of operations management to the private
sector; (ii) clarify the linkages between WWA, the Central Water
Authority, the Water Resource Unit, and the Ministries of
Environment and Agriculture; (iii) modemize wastewater legislation
and improve enforcement; and (iv) improve wastewater infrastructure
and service financing through tariffs for cost recovery (based on
beneficiary willingness to pay), economic incentives for industrial
pollution control, and reuse of treated wastewater in agriculture;
and (b) a physical component to construct the Montagne Jacquot
sewerage system to cover the heavily populated and industrial areas
of Port Louis South, Lower Beau Bassin, Coromandel, and new areas at
Pailles. A full environmental impact assessment will guide project
design. Design of these components will be guided by the results of
studies and design work, including an institutional study, a cost-
recovery study, an feasibility analysis of wastewater reuse for
agriculture, and detailed design of the Montagne Jacquot system,
including analysis of technical options and enviromnental impacts.
5. Project Financing. The IBRD will provide US$15.7 million, the
GOM will contribute US$12.6 million, and US$33.6 million is to be
provided in soft loans from Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF). Local industry will make in-kind contributions through
pre-treatment of industrial effluents.
6. Project Implementation. The Waste Water Authority, under the
Ministry Public Infrastructure, will be the implementing and
executing agency for this project. Preparatory studies will
determine the division of responsibility and linkages arnong
govemment agencies concemed with management of water quality (see 4
(a) (ii) above). As a coordinating committee these agencies will be
responsible for drafting regulatory refonn, establishing and
collecting tariffs and fees, and enforcing environmental laws and
standards. Extemal experts will assist WWA to develop and undertake
staff training to strengthen planning, financing, management, and
enforcement functions in the wastewater sector.
7. Project Sustainability. The project falls within the National
Sewerage Program, developed by the Govemment of Mauritius. As such,
it is an integral part of the comprehensive program for the sector,
and has the full backing of the GOM. Project components to
strengthen institutional capacity in the wastewater sector, and to
establish a cost-recovery system will ensure project sustainability.
8. Lessons Learned. The Govemment of Mauritius has shown its
conimitment to addressing enviromnental concems through development
of the NEAP and the SMP, undertakenwith World Bank support. This
commitment has also been demonstrated in the current Environmental
- 2-



Monitoring and Free Ports projects. As work in this sector has
progressed, the need to develop national capacity for environmental
management, including sustainable financing, has become clear.
9. Environmental Aspects. The project has been rated "Category A,"
requiring a full environmental assessment. Wastewater
infrastructure, and management of wastewater services, are currently
inadequate to handle domestic and industrial effluents in an
environ-mentally sound manner. The project will assist in
operationalizing the strategy enunciated in the NEAP and the SMP by
strengthening the WWA, improving environmental legislation,
utilizing economic incentives to control pollution, and't)roviding
adequate service to a concentrated urban population. Better
collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater will improve human
health, assure the quality of water resources and protect marine and
coastal ecosystems. The potential reuse of treated wastewater for
agriculture should help to conserve potable water resources. A full
envirormiental impact assessment is underway to deterinine the
environmental implications of different technology choices for the
Montagne Jacquot system.
10. Program Objective Categories. The projtct will contribute
to Environmentally Sustainable Development by improving the health
and quality of life of urban residents, and by protecting water
resources and marine and coastal ecosystems. Through institutional
strengthening and coordination, cost-recovery, and legislative
reforrn, the project aims to improve Public Sector Management.
Contact Point:           The World Bank Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank Infoshop Center week ending November 14, 1997.
- 3 -



