Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4283-MAS
Project Agreement
(Environmental Sewerage and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
WASTE WATER AUTHORITY
Dated  September 14, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4283-MAS 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and WASTE WATER AUTHORITY (WWA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Mauritius (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount of twelve million four hundred thousand Dollars ($12,400,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
WWA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; 
(B)
by the Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and WWA, part of the proceeds of the Loan, provided for under the Loan Agreement, will 
be made available to WWA on terms and conditions set forth in said Implementation 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS WWA, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) WWA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and WWA shall otherwise agree, WWA shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and the consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) WWA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance in 
respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A and C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, WWA shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and WWA, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
WWA on said plan.
Section 2.04. WWA shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, WWA shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating 
or waiving the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) WWA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Implementation Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
WWA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by WWA of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Implementation Agreement. 
Section 2.06. WWA, shall carry out the Environmental Mitigation Plan in 
accordance with the time table contained therein. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of WWA 
Section 3.01. WWA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. WWA shall at all times operate and maintain the plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
Page  3
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and 
financial practices, as defined in the Implementation Agreement.
Section 3.03. WWA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) WWA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
WWA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. WWA shall, by no later than July 1, 1999, prepare and implement a 
cost accounting system acceptable to the Bank. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of WWA 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Loan Agreement terminates before the date specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify WWA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For WWA:
Waste Water Authority
5th Floor, Aisha Building
Louis Pasteur Street
Port Louis
Mauritius
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of WWA or by WWA 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its 
Director, or by such other person or persons as WWA shall designate in writing, and 
WWA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
WASTE WATER AUTHORITY
By /s/ Chitmansing Jesseramsing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
1.
WWA shall, commencing July 1, 1998, monitor industrial contributions to the 
pretreatment of waste water and impose and collect penalties for non-compliance, in 
accordance with legislation enacted by the Borrower. 
2.
(a)
WWA shall, commencing December 31, 1998, furnish to the Bank every six 
months progress reports on the implementation of the Project.
(b)
WWA shall by December 31 of each year, commencing 1998, undertake an 
annual review of Project implementation, including the status of works, disbursements, 
tariff collection and allocation, and the progress in the development of policies for 
Page  5
the subsector. 
3.
WWA shall, by July 1, 1999, implement a cost accounting system tracing the cost 
of various services including depreciation, the cost of capital and other costs and 
associated revenues, to provide a full basis for cost recovery and tariff policy.
4.
WWA shall: (a) participate in and contribute to the mid-term review referred to 
in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement; and
(b)
promptly thereafter carry out such actions as are required on its part 
contained in the action plan prepared pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of said Schedule.
