Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4283-MAS
Loan Agreement
(Environmental Sewerage and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 14, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4283-MAS 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Bank has received a letter dated January 21, 1998, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform the 
Borrower’s sewerage and sanitation sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
Parts A and C of the Project will be carried out by the Waste Water 
Authority (WWA) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to WWA part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas Economic Cooperation 
Fund of Japan (OECF), a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount equivalent to US$33,600,000 
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read: "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the 
Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, 
the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of 
the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the 
Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 
with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect 
to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall 
be 
canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"CWA" means the Central Water Authority, established by the Borrower, 
pursuant to the Central Water Authority Act, No. 20 of 1971, of the laws of the 
Borrower, as amended; 
(b)
"Environmental Mitigation Plan" means the plan adopted by the Borrower 
and WWA on June 9, 1998, for the mitigation of the adverse effects of activities under 
the Project; 
(c)
"GIS" means Geographic Information System; 
(d)
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and WWA, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Implementation Agreement; 
(e)
"Institutional Action Plan" means the action plan prepared by the 
Borrower for the restructuring of WWA;
(f)
"Mauritian Rupee" and "Mau Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(g)
"Maîtrise d’Ouvrage déléguée" means an arrangement whereby the Borrower, 
as owner of assets, delegates certain rights, prerogatives and responsibilities to WWA 
for a certain period of time, under the terms and conditions to be set out in the 
Implementation Agreement; 
(h)
"MEDRC" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Development and 
Regional Cooperation; 
(i)
"MLGE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government and Environment; 
Page  3
(j)
"MPU" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Utilities; 
(k)
"NSP" means the National Sewerage Program, adopted by the Borrower in 
April 1994; 
(l)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and WWA, of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplementary to the Project Agreement.
(m)
"PIP" means the Project implementation plan, adopted by the Borrower and 
WWA for the implementation of the Project, which includes, inter alia, sector reforms 
and implementation of: (i) a cost-recovery system; (ii) the Institutional Action Plan; 
and (iii) monitoring and evaluation by MPU and WWA; 
(n)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter, dated August 6, 1996, from 
the Bank and confirmed by the Borrower on October 4, 1996;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)
"Steering Committee" means the interministerial committee, responsible 
for Project oversight referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(q)
"WWA" means the Waste Water Authority, established within MPU by the 
Borrower pursuant to the Waste Water Act, No. 12 of 1991, of the laws of the Borrower, 
as amended. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twelve 
million four hundred thousand Dollars ($12,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from, and including the 
date of this Agreement to but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
Page  4
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:  
(i)
shall carry out Part B of the Project through MPU, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
practices and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause WWA to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of WWA therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
WWA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to Categories (1) and (2) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement available to WWA under an implementation agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and WWA under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Page  5
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and 
maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out by WWA pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. Section 3.05. The Borrower shall implement the Environmental 
Mitigation Plan in accordance with the timetable contained therein. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1998, introduce a wastewater tariff 
as a surcharge to its water tariff, the amount of such surcharge shall be determined 
on the basis of the amount of water utilized by the customer concerned at the rates 
Page  6
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
WWA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that WWA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(d)
The Waster Water Authority Act shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
WWA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of WWA or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
OECF Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and  
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of Bank within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the OECF Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the OECF Loan other than those 
related to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
Page  7
(b)
WWA has selected the consultants for Part C.1 of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted a program adapted to the Mauritian conditions 
and acceptable to the Bank for the monitoring of waste water quality; 
(d)
the Borrower and WWA have adopted the PIP; and 
(e)
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank, evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the land for the construction activities under Part A of the Project has 
been acquired and rights in respect of such land are available for the purposes of the 
Project. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank namely that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by WWA, and is legally binding upon WWA in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
4247
Port Louis
EXTERN IW
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
By /s/ Chitmansing Jesseramsing 
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   6,600,000
55%
(2)
Consultants' services:
80%
(a) for Parts A and C
   3,500,000
of the Project
(b) for Part B of the
   1,500,000
Project
(3)
Refunding of Project
     300,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
     500,000
TOTAL
  12,400,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may 
be made in respect of Categories (2) (a) and (2) (b) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1997; and 
(b) payments for expenditures under Category (1) until the Implementation 
Agreement has been executed. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works under contracts not exceeding 
$200,000 equivalent and services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the health and sanitary 
conditions of the populations of the heavily urbanized areas of Port Louis and 
affected coastal zones; (ii) reverse the current trend of environmental pollution in 
the Borrower’s territories and in the coastal zone; and (iii) support the Borrower’s 
effort to implement priority institutional and technical measures identified in its 
Sewerage Master Plan.
Page  9
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Montagne Jacquot Sewerage System
1.
Construction of: (a) sewerage pipelines, including transmission and rising 
mains, from the Fort Victoria and Pointe aux Sables pumping stations to the Montagne 
Jacquot sewerage treatment plant; and (b) pipelines connecting industrial estates and 
residences to the transmission mains. 
2.
Construction, and operation and maintenance, of two pumping stations at Fort 
Victoria and Pointe aux Sables. 
3.
Construction, and operation and maintenance, of a sewerage treatment plant at 
Montagne Jacquot with the capacity to handle about a 48,000 cubic meter flow of 
sewerage. 
4.
Construction of a sea outfall of about 645 meters off the coast of Montagne 
Jacquot. 
5.
Construction by industries of pretreatment works for the treatment of industrial 
effluents. 
6.
Provision of technical advisory services for the supervision of all construction 
activities under Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project.
Part B:
Sector Studies
1.
Carrying out of the following studies:
a)
mapping of the sewer networks;
b)
a household connection inventory and feasibility study;
c)
a GIS and digital software study; and
d)
a review of sector institutions, WWA, CWA, the Water Resource Unit of 
MPU, MLGE and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Cooperatives. 
2.
Carrying out a public awareness campaign on the NSP, including seminars, 
workshops and dissemination of information. 
3.
Carrying out a Project implementation audit and such other related studies.
Part C:
WWA Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Strengthening of WWA to enable it to undertake its role under the Project, as 
"Maîtrise d’Ouvrage déléguée" through the provision of technical advisory services. 
2.
Carrying out of a program for the training of WWA staff in the following areas, 
namely project management, facilitation of private sector involvement in wastewater 
services, construction supervision, monitoring environment quality and standards and 
planning of future sector investments. 
3.
Establishment by WWA of pretreatment standards, methods, monitoring arrangements 
and incentives for the treatment of industrial waste.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2003
Page  10
through October 15, 2010
620,000
On  April 15, 2013
620,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General 
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  11
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for assistance to WWA and MPU under Parts B and C of the Project, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  12
apply.  
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the Steering 
Committee chaired by MEDRC and comprised of high-level representatives of MEDRC, MPU, 
the Ministry of Finance and MLGE, to be responsible for oversight of the Project, 
policy guidance and coordination of all Project and Program activities.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by March 31 and September 30 in each year commencing September 30, 1998, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and in the 
case of the reports due on March 31 an update of the Institutional Action Plan, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30 and October 31 of each year or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1999, carry out jointly with 
the Bank and WWA a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the following: (i) the 
overall progress in the implementation of the NSP, the Program and the Project; (ii) 
the various studies under Part B of the Project; (iii) the progress made in the 
implementation of the policy reforms, institutional arrangements, tariffs and 
cost-recovery system, regulatory framework and private sector participation; (iv) the 
evolution of the role of WWA in the sector; and (v) an integrated vision of the public 
utilities sectors. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, three months before such review, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, needed to undertake 
the review, including the preparation of a program of action, to deal with 
deficiencies in Project implementation identified prior to such review.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the further implementation of the Project and the 
Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan. 
4.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the PIP and shall not amend the PIP or waive any provision 
thereof, which in the opinion of the Bank, will materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
I.
Tariff Rates Referred to in Section 4.02 of the Agreement:
Water tariffs
(Mau Rs per cum)
1998/99
1999/00
2000/01
2001/02
2002/03
2003/04
Page  13
Domestic
6.38.59.1
Commercial
13.614.916.2
Government1
3.614.916.2
Wastewater tariffs
(Mau Rs per cum)
1998/99
1999/00
2000/01
2001/02
2002/03
2003/04
Domestic
2.86.49.1
Commercial
13.614.916.2
Government
13.614.916.2
II. Project Output
1. a. Transfer of effluents works begin in 1999, completed by 2001.
c. Cost-recovery system established by July 1998.  Wastewater tariffs determined on 
metered water consumption, collected by CWA and transferred to WWA.
d. (ii)  Sewer reticulation to carried out.
2.  Improved sector management and interagency coordination.b. Working ratio increases 
from 50% in 1998 to 85% in 2002/2003 (NSP operation). 
d. Outsourcing of O&M on existing infrastructure increasing from 0% in 1998/1999 to 
75% in 2002/2003.
e. Sector legislation reform: (i) review sector legal framework (February 1998); (ii) 
draft MPU/WWA contract of delegation (March 1998); (iii) draft WWA Act (April 1998) 
and promulgated (September 1998); (iv) review other related legislation (September 
1998) and draft revisions by Midterm Review (June 1999); (v) integrated 
water/wastewater policy framework to be drafted by Midterm Review (June 1999); and 
(vi) new contract of delegation to be signed (February 2001).
3. Better compliance with wastewater regulations by industry
3.a. WWA/Industry Agreement  negotiated by May 1999 and signed by June 1999.
c. Industrial effluent meets standards agreed in WWA/Industrial Agreement by 2003.
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) (a) and (2) (b) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  14
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category[ies] 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Page  15
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
