Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20828-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR THE
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
October 5, 2000
Infrastructure Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lek
136 Lek = 1US$
US$0.0073 = 1 Lek
SDR I = US$1.3064
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCP         Border Crossing Point
CAM-A          Customs Assistance Mission - Albania
EU         European Union
ECMT          The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
FMS         Financial Management System
GDC         General Directorate of Customs
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GRD         General Roads Directorate
GOA         Government of Albania
ICIS        Integrated Customs Information System
IT       Information Technology
LAN         Local Area Network
MECT          Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NEA         National Environment Agency
PIT        Project Implementation Team
PIU        Project Implementation Unit of the National Roads Project
RAS         Risk Assessment System
SAD         Single Administrative Document
SECI        Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TIR        Transport International Routier
TOR         Terms of Reference
TTFSE         Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UN-ECE          United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
SME         Small and Medium Enterprise
WCO          World Customs Organization
WAN          Wide Area Network
Vice President:                    Johannes F. Linn, ECCVP
Country Director:                  Christiaan Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director:                   Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:                   Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Team Leader:                       Graham Smith, ECSIN
Task Manager:                      Anca Dumitrescu, ECSIN
ii



ALBANIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .....3..................................3
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .............................                      .        .       .      .       3
2. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ...........................3
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT .............................                                           ..4
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ...........4
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ........................................         ,      .4
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES .........................................7
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .........................................................8
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS ........................................................8
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ................................................9
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION ........................................................                         10
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .,                                                                 10
D. PROJECT RATIONALE .................................................. 13
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .................................................. 13
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ........... 14
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ..............................................       ,       , 15
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ............................................                    15
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ...................................... ..... 1 5
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ............................................                                              16
1. ECONOMIC   .....1..............             ....       . ... ... .      ..      .   .... .....6
2. FINANCIAL AND FISCAL ............................................. 16
3. TECHNICAL .                                                                                                     17
4. INSTITUTIONAL ............................................. 17
5. SOCIAL ............................................. 17
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ............................................. 18
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH ............................................. 18
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .............................................                                             20
1. SUSTAINABILITY   .............................................                                                  20
2. CRITICAL RISKS ............................................. 20
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ............................................. 2 1
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ..........................................                                                  21
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITION .............................................                                           21
2. OTHER .............................................                                                             21
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................                                             22
1.  COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .............................................                                        22
iii



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.     PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
ANNEX 2.     DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ANNEX 3.     ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX 4.     COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
ANNEX 5.     FINANCIAL SUMMARY
ANNEX 6.     PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A.    PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE Al.    CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE B I    THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PROPIR REVIEW
TABLE B2.   PROCUREMENT PLAN
TABLE C.    ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
TABLE D.    SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND ACTIONS OF THE CAPACITY ASSESSMENT OF THE PIT
ANNEX 7.     PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX8.      DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 9.     STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
ANNEX 10.    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
ANNEX 11.    EUROPEAN UNION SUPPORT PROGRAM TO CUSTOMS REFORM (2000-2002)
ANNEX 12.    SUMMARY OF THE THREE YEAR STRATEGIC PLAN
ANNEX 13.    COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
MAPs No.   31117 AND 31118
iv



ALBANIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South East Europe Country Unit
Date: October 5, 2000                               Team Leader: Graham Smith
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan Poortman       Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 7E-PE-70078                             Sector: TY - Other transportation
Lending Instrument:                                 Theme(s): Public sector
Specific Investment Credit
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [Xl No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [X ] Credit      [] Guarantee      [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 6.2 million (US$ 8.1 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        [X] Multicurrency      [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):   10             [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:      40
Commitment fee:         0.5% on disbursement credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver
Service charge:         0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                   2.9                0.0              2.9
USA                                                          0.1                 1.2             1.3
IDA                                                          1.7                6.4              8.1
Total                                                        4.7                7.6             12.3
Borrower: Albania
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$M):  FY2001    FY2002    FY2003    FY2004
Annual      0.6        2.6         3.6        1.3
Cumulative      0.6        3.2        6.8        8.1
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date:   02/01/2001                       Expected closing date: 06/30/2004
Implementing agencies:      Ministry of Finance, General Directorate of Customs, General Roads Directorate
Contact person:             Sabina Shyti, Project Manager
Tel: (355) 4 228373         Fax: (355) 4 258435                 E-mail: sabinashyti@hotmail.com



Page 2
THE TTFSE: KEY DESIGN CONCEPTS
How does this project differ from the typical project?
Regional character. The TTFSE projects are regionally linked in a program supporting Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, fYR Macedonia, and Romania in their efforts to foster
trade. All these countries are beneficiaries of the Stability Pact'. They seek to promote more efficient
and less costly trade flows across the borders of the participating countries and provide EU-compatible
customs standards. This requires the cooperation of the participating countries and a mutual sharing of
concerns for the reform of their Customs services. To assist such cooperation and facilitate the sharing
of information, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) has been created. All participating countries are
represented on this committee and have signed a Memorandum of Understanding detailing its role and
activities. The United States (US) is funding a secretariat for the RSC.
Reform combined with the provision of infrastructure. The project will support the implementation
of on-going customs reforms and focus on integrated solutions at selected pilot sites located on main
European corridors. Customs reform is an essential part of the activities Albania needs to undertake to
align itself with the European Union. These pilots will increase the productivity of border agencies,
enabling shorter processing time at border crossings and inland terminals. The reforms and pilots will
need to be supported at some border crossings by the upgrading of infrastructure. The project will
finance physical improvements at these border crossings, once critical elements of reform proceed.
Non-duplicative structure. The TTFSE seeks to offer the Customs services the guarantee that reform
needs will be addressed in a way least costly to the government. Governments will continue on-going
customs reforms led by the European Union (EU), and will continue relying mainly on the EU
assistance. They will also use grant funding from the USA for rnost of the technical assistance
components of the TTFSE projects.
Participatory approach. The design and implementation of the TTFSE is based on participatory
methodology to ensure that the projects belong to the participating countries and are endorsed and
owned by the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries. Ownership is best promoted by
participation. Consultations with customs officials and users have occurred during the design phase and
mechanisms are built into the project to obtain regular user input in the monitoring and evaluation
process.
Buildin2 on previous/on-goin2 initiatives. Several international organizations have recognized the
need to help countries in the region improve transit across borders and have provided assistance to start
addressing it. The EU was the first in the Balkans to start addressing this issue. Its experience
highlights the need for comprehensive reforns and carefully selected upgrading of infrastructure. The
European Conference of Ministers of Transport has as a priority on its agenda the removal of obstacles
at border crossings for international road goods transport.  The Southeast European Cooperative
Initiative2 also promotes economic and environmental cooperation among the countries in the region,
with a focus on efficient transit, and combating corruption and smuggling.
'The Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, adopted in Cologne on June 10, 1999 at a special meeting of
Foreign Ministers, representatives of international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives concerned
with South East Europe, commits these parties to the adoption of a comprehensive, coordinated and strategic
approach to the region, replacing crisis management with preventative diplomacy.
2Consisting of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Moldova, Romania,
Slovenia, fYR Macedonia and Turkey, and established in December 1996 to promote regional economic and
environmental cooperation among the countries in the region. The initiative is being supported by UTN-ECE,
the US government, and the governments of Italy and Austria.



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective : (see Annex 1)
The proposed project forms part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in
Southeast Europe3 that aims to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other
border control agencies in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Romania. The Program, the result of a collaborative effort
between the Government, IDA, the EU and the US, seeks two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The project would achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting customs reform; (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between private and public parties at regional,
national and local levels; (iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private
sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v)
implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new customs procedures, information technology,
human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms4
for agencies at border crossings. The reduction in duty evasion and corruption would allow for an
increase of government revenues and enable a moderate reduction in effective tariff rates while
not forfeiting revenues. The financing of infrastructure will be dependent upon the successful
implementation of the reforms, notably the application of targeting and selectivity techniques.
In Albania, the European Commission's Customs Assistance Mission to Albania (CAM-A),
based on its experience in the country, will continue to support the implementation of the
Strategic Plan developed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the General Directorate of
Customs (GDC). The process necessary to change institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is
expected to take a substantial time, about 8 to 10 years. The reform involves simultaneous and
sustained actions on: (i) change in administrative and operational procedures; (ii) definition of
staff profiles for the organization and hiring or training deployment according to them; (iii)
elaboration and implementation of a staff development plan; and (iv) introduction of up-to-date
information technology and regional interconnections. This project will provide support to
implement the customs reform at border crossings and inland terminals during the first phase of
the process.
The project will help Albania upgrade roads damaged by heavy traffic in transit to Kosovo during
the 1999 conflict and thereafter, and to bring its main border crossing into Kosovo up to the
standards required by the new traffic volumes.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the objectives will be monitored by key indicators covering the performance of
GDC services at one pilot inland terminal and two pilot border crossings, and overall efficiency
indicators for the GDC as a whole. The indicators include: (i) transport costs to/from the three
main trading partners and the transaction costs at these pilot sites; (ii) the number of physical or
documentary examinations and their effectiveness; (iii) clearance time; (iv) the value of recorded
trade; and (v) occurrence of corruption. In addition, a set of regional indicators will be used to
measure cost/time reduction in regional transport on three major corridors to evaluate the overall
impact of the program. A detailed set of indicators has been defined to follow the national and
regional progress throughout the project life (Annex 1).
3Referred to in this document collectively as "the program" and nationally as the "TTFSE project".
4 Including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency awareness.



Page 4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1):
CAS document number: IDA/R2000-20                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/21/00
The assistance strategy of the Bank Group emphasizes three priority areas: (i) governance and
institution building through support for reforms in the public administration and efforts to combat
corruption; (ii) promoting sustainable private sector growth mainly through restoring
macroeconomic stability, reforming the financial sector and privatizing enterprise, and improving
infrastructure; and (iii) promoting human development by fostering education, health, and social
protection. A CAS Progress Report was discussed by the Board on March 21, 2000. The
Progress Report places cross-sectoral emphasis on poverty reduction, with special attention to
strengthening social cohesion and building inclusive institutions.
The proposed project is especially in line with the objectives (i) and (ii) above. It will support the
Government's Anticorruption Action Plan through addressing the on-going restructuring of GDC.
It will help GDC to better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport costs, lowering
the price of imported goods, and improving the competitiveness of Albanian products, thereby
promoting private sector growth and creation of new jobs in the country. The project will also
support the GDC in strengthening its tax collection capacity and enforcing several international
conventions relating to the environment, while reinforcing on-going efforts against corruption.
The proposed border crossing infrastructure improvements will allow a cost-efficient cross-border
system with positive results for road transport.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
After the dramatic drop of 1997 as a result of the civil unrest that accompanied the pyramid
schemes collapse in Albania, both imports and exports expanded considerably. Foreign trade has
become increasingly significant to Albania's economy, representing on average about 34 percent
of GDP in 1999 (see trade indicators in Annex 4). Although the Kosovo crisis placed an
enormous strain on Albania's budget and administrative capacity and it fostered criminal activity,
it boosted transport and other services. The negative effects of the crisis were thus smaller than
anticipated, and it reflected in stronger than expected exports and lower imports as a result of the
early return of the refugees. Trade has become mainly oriented towards the EU (though transport
routes by road are in very poor condition), with main trading partners being Italy and Greece
(over 80% of Albania's exports and about two-thirds of its imports). The country's main exports
consist of textiles and clothing, footwear, and mineral products. Imports consist mainly of
textiles, foodstuffs, machinery and equipment.
Albania has strengthened trade links with its neighbors, particularly with Turkey, former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Bulgaria.
The MOF through its GDC describes the Customs' objectives in its Three Years Strategic Plan
(2000-2003) as to efficiently, economically, and effectively: (i) facilitate legal/honest trade and
travelers; (ii) maximize revenue collection from international trade; (iii) protect society by
enforcing prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports; and (iv) collect and supply
accurate trade statistics.
The GDC plays a critical role in serving both the State and the trading community. In 1999, the
GDC collected about US$262 million equivalent (about 35 percent) of the total state budget



Page 5
revenues. The Government has achieved partial success in improving the services of Customs
and reducing trade and transport impediments through the recent restructuring of the GDC
(1999). Particular efforts have been made to strengthen law enforcement at the borders by
establishing the Operational and Investigation Department. Private sector observers recognize the
efforts of GDC but underline that much remains to be accomplished. The following obstacles to
trade and transport have been identified in consultation with Customs and various stakeholders:
a. Modernizing Customs Law and Procedures
The Government enacted a new EU - compatible Customs Code in May, 1999 and prepared the
related sub-laws. The MOF and its GDC are showing a strong focus to modernize Customs
procedures with the support of the European Commission through the Customs Assistance
Mission- Albania (CAM-A). CAM-A was deployed after the 1997 crisis, and its aim was to
assist the GDC to restore its ability to collect and improve the yield of revenue, and to modernize
the GDC into a self-sustaining and modern viable service. Two main programs have been
designed in these directions: the Pre-Arrival Intelligence System (PAIS) with an immediate
positive effect on revenue collection, and the Modernization and Development Program that
progressed in parallel.  The latter included notably two main elements: (i) creation and
implementation of a Valuation and Reference File (VFR), and (ii) adoption of the new Customs
Code referred to above.
Despite this modernization, the actual implementation of DGC procedures needs further attention
to facilitate trade and transport activities. Stakeholders have indicated they have concerns about:
(i) changes in the legal system and regulations without advance notice; (ii) insufficient clarity and
transparency of customs regulations; (iii) application of legislation at border points; (iv)
coordination among border agencies; and (v) interaction with the Government. At the same time,
GDC management has signaled the following major impediments to trade facilitation: (i) the need
to revise the definition of responsibilities between Customs and Border Police, as well as (ii) the
lack of sufficient training in legislation and procedures by both trade operators and customs
officers.
The GDC intends to address these issues through its Operational Plan 2000 and subsequent ones.
Assistance is on-going from CAM-A, and the GDC needs continued international assistance with
a view to becoming self-sufficient and self-sustaining.
b. Upgrading Customs Facilities
Even if procedures are reformed and professional standards are strengthened, the design and
facilities of some of the main border crossing points will prevent GDC from fulfilling its trade
facilitation, collection and enforcement functions.  Insufficient facilities (both physical
infrastructure and equipment) at these border crossing points (BCPs) are one of the reasons for
delays. BCPs are too poorly equipped to swiftly and knowingly clear the passage of vehicles.
Difficulties are mostly the result of the low quality of information technology, and the poor
reliability of power and telecommunications rather than shortcomings in "brick and mortar"
infrastructure facilities. Telecommunications are so deficient that some border points do not have
access to telephone lines. Interruptions of electricity are frequent.
The Government has already started to rehabilitate BCPs with its own funds and with assistance
from development partners, notably the EU. Most of the border stations in Albania, with the



Page 6
exception of Qafe Thane, have been rebuilt with funds from PH-ARE programs. However, the
destruction (in 1997) of the new building at the Qafe Thane border5 funded earlier by USAID
made the facility almost impracticable. The major BCP of Morina with FR Yugoslavia lacks
processing lanes for traffic, and has limited capacity for inspection.
With respect to establishing an Integrated Customs Information System, the EU has included
funding for the ASYCUDA6 clearance system in its assistance program to Albania for the year
2000 (Annex 11). At the same time and complementary to the system, the GDC needs equipment
and telecommunications improvements to ensure proper and safe implementation of Customs'
computerization.
(c) Smuggling and corruption opportunities at border crossings
The Albanian Government recognizes that smuggling and corruption remain a national problem,
exacerbated at the level of Customs, despite the strong efforts of the administration.
Following the social unrest that occurred in 1997, the facilities of Customs Services were
vandalized and GDC lost control of border stations, allowing widespread smuggling. The CAM-
A has assisted the GDC since that period. Its 1999 program was mostly aimed at anti-corruption
and anti-smuggling projects, with the collaboration of USAID. Improvement of Customs ethics
is also a major objective of the GDC. There are efforts to include the principles of the Arusha
Declaration on Customs integrity into a Customs Ethics Code. Some short-term assistance will
be provided by Eurocustoms funded by the European Commission.
Despite the assisted efforts of the GDC, stakeholders have reported that corruption and
particularly the lack of transparency generate significant additional costs. Freight rates set by
companies operating in the region frequently include a mark-up to cover unofficial payments.
Users complain that unequal treatment of importers is a constant problem, and tax collection
procedures allow arbitrary action by customs and provide opportunities for rent-seeking behavior
at the border crossings.
dt Upgrading critical transit roads and bridges
The Government attaches increasing importance to the construction and rehabilitation of its
national roads network, particularly on the East-West and North-South international corridors.
These roads, already in poor condition for lack of maintenance, were severely damaged during
and after the Kosovo crisis. Some sections are barely passable because of repair works which are
proceeding only very slowly. Albania's eastern neighbors would send far more traffic in transit
through Albania and the port of Durres, if the roads were safer and in better condition.
In support of the Government's transport strategy and key priorities, IDA has financed four
projects for upgrading critically needed roads: the Transport, Rural Roads, National Roads, and
Emergency Road Repair projects. The first was completed in 1999 while the others are still
under implementation. In addition to these on-going efforts, construction of some urgently
needed sections on the North-South Corridor between Durres and Shkoder, as well as bridges on
the European Corridor 8 between Durres and the Qafe-Thane border with fYR Macedonia, are
necessary.
5 Qafe Thane is located on the main East-West Albanian corridor between the seaport of Durres and the
Macedonian border, part of the Helsinki European Corridor 8.
6Automated System for Customs Data, a customs declaration processing system developed by UNCTAD.



Page 7
e. Improving Private-Public Interactions
Limited and sometimes late prior consultation with the trade community prevents meaningful and
constructive interactions. The Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade and the Alba-PRO7
committee provide mechanisms to reach more consensual decisions. The lack of accountability of
the GDC in facilitating trade is a core reason for the disconnection between users and the GDC.
Customs officials do not feel liable for the delays they cause in the release of goods, cargo
transfer, and down-time suffered by vehicles, whether these delays are justified or not, and the
related costs are borne solely by the cargo owners. Limited foreign language skills among
operational officers cause time-consuming and costly transactions requiring translations. The
GDC increasingly provides training to its officers to improve the quality of their interactions with
the private sector, but further efforts will be required to achieve the quality of the services
available in, and compatible with, the European Union.
f Strengthening Regional Cooperation
Albania, like all other participants in the South European Cooperative Initiative (SECI)
recognizes the importance of coordinated actions to address the above issues. It is recognized
that each country can expect to gain from actions to be taken by its neighbors. A regional view
has thus emerged, according to which participant countries would simultaneously apply
coordinated  and  compatible  measures  to  reduce  trade/transport  impediments  and
corruption/smuggling opportunities. The regional cohesion can be symbolized by the signing of
the regional Memorandum of Understanding by the six countries as well as their willingness to
regionally benchmark country performance and to work on streamlined solutions at paired border
crossings8 (Map 31117). The support shown by the EU and the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe (UN-ECE), as well as such bilateral donors as the US, reflects the
importance attached to the development and stabilization of the region.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the issues described above, building on previous efforts and taking full
account of ongoing EU support through CAM-A, to avoid any duplication. The project will
combine resources from the Government, IDA, and the USA. Given the interest of Albania in the
implementation of EU-compatible standards and the need to ensure the overall compatibility of
the program, close relationships with the EU will be maintained, in particular, in the area of
computerization, through a quLadri-partite periodic review mechanism, including the Albanian
Goven-ment. the EU, UNCTAD, and the World Bank, destined to ensure compatibility and
synchronization between the various donors. and compliance witlh internationally. UN-based.
accepted standards for equipmenlt, and software. The project will seek improvements in: (i)
procedures of border agencies; (ii) border infrastructure and equipment; (iii) the ICIS; and (iv)
trade/transport business environment and professional performance. In addition, the project will
finance rehabilitation of critical roads sections on main corridors leading to Albanian borders, in
conjunction with other IDA supported transport projects.
7 A public-private forum that seeks to improve international trade through the simplification and
harmonization of procedures and practices in administration, commerce and transport, in accordance with
UN/CEFACT guidelines.
8 Between Albania and fYR Macedonia.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The project consists of the following components:
a. Customs Services Procedures Reform
Includes: (i) monitoring and review of customs procedures; and (ii) enhancing interagency
awareness and training.
b. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international
transport participants through the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade (Alba-Pro-
Committee); (ii) improvement of communication between border control agencies and trading
community by using a virtual forum9; and (iii) provision of equipment to support information
availability.
c. Support to Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)
Includes: (i) equipment for ICIS and communication improvement; and (ii) a regional program of
experience-sharing. This component will stimulate regional and inter-agency cooperation.
d Improvement of Roads and Border Crossing Facilities
Includes: (i) rehabilitation of Qafe-Thane and Morina border crossings; (ii) equipment for
enforcing the processing and investigation capacity at customs stations; (iii) rehabilitation and
completion of road and bridge works at Lezhe Connection, Fushe Kruje - Mamurrassi, and
Librazhd - Qafe Thane; and (iv) design and supervision of the civil works.
e. Program and Project Implementation
Includes the services required to support implementation of the program. At the regional level
these will consist of the secretariat services to the RSC and at the national level the auditors and
procurement consultants, the Project Implementation Team (PIT) staff, the establishment of a
financial management system, and training to the PIT.
Component              Category    Cost Incl.   % of    IDA-      % of
Conting.   Total  financing    IDA-
(US$M)            (US$M!   financing
A. Customs Services Procedures    Institution       0.8   6.1       0.0        0.0
Reform                          Building
B. Trade Facilitation Development   Physical/       0.4   3.6       0.0        0.0
Institution
Building
C. Support to ICIS              Physical/          2.3   18.5       1.9       23.5
Institution
9 Creation of an internet website that will enable exchange of views, user surveys and consultations.



Page 9
Building
D. Improvement of Roads and      Physical/           8.2   66.6      5.7        70.5
Border Crossing Facilities       Institution
Building
E. Program and Project           Operating           0.6    5.2      0.5         6.0
Implementation                   Costs
Total        12.3  100.0      8.1       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Albania has indicated its commitment to market reforms, including deregulation and
privatization. The project will supplement ongoing policy and institutional reforms seeking the
following objectives:
a Strengthening of the GDC
The capacity building activities will address the following aspects:
* implementation and enforcement of new legislation aligned with the European
Communities legislation, with reference to the acquis communautaire10 and related
legislation; adoption of simplified and standardized customs and border inspection
procedures (compliance measurement and selective inspection based on risk
assessment);
* human resource management to develop customs/border inspection expertise and
enhance system integrity;
* creation of a partnership among border inspection agencies and the trade/industry
community to better coordinate operations, procedures, and the exchange of
information;
* adoption of audits and account management processing to facilitate trade and trade
data exchanges; and
* implementation of operational reforms at the pilot border crossing points of Qafe
Thane and Durres.
b. Strengthening of the Integrated Customs Information System
Introduction of the information systems will have the following impacts:
* elimination of multiple data entry;
* support of selectivity and targeting procedures at all customs locations;
* support of international Electronic Data Interchange standards to enable fast
integration into the international trading community;
* monitoring of Customs performance, traffic patterns and capacity use;
• information exchange with other governments in the region; and
* reduction in corruption opportunities by lessening human intervention.
'° All treaties, policies and Communities' legislation in force for the European Union, that must be accepted
by countries wishing to join.



Page 10
c. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
The project will lead to greater regional cohesion. The implementation of a joint pilot project with
fYR Macedonia at the Qafe Thane - Kafasan border post will strengthen regional cooperation at
both local and national levels.
3. Benefits and Target Population:
a. Benefits
It is hoped that the Customs reform and decreases in trade and transport costs will lead to
transparent customs procedures, a more reliable business environment, and economic growth as a
result of lower prices of imports and more competitive prices/services for exports. This will
translate into:
*  cheaper import goods / inputs for Albanian consumers and industries;
*  better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly for
the trade activities of small and medium enterprises;
*  more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign companies;
*  improved facilitation for transit traffic;
*  prevention of corruption and smuggling opportunities;
*  improved revenue collection by the GDC, enabling reduction in tariffs;
*  uninterrupted services of ICIS and better integrity of data; and
*  improved alignment with EU standards and procedures.
b. Target Population
The beneficiaries of the proposed Project will be transport operators, importers, exporters, freight
forwarders, other trade industries, foreign investors, and ultimately, consumers and producers
inside and outside the region. Travelers and tourism will also benefit.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a) Implementation Period
The project will be implemented over three years and a half (FY2001-FY2004). It will be
completed by December 31, 2003, and closed by June 3, 2004. The Customs reform process will
last about 8 - 10 years.
(b) Executing agencies
Albania, through its MOF, will be the borrower for the IDA credit. The beneficiaries will be its
General Directorate of Customs (GDC) and the General Roads Directorate (GRD) under the
Transport Ministry. Through the proposed co-financing, other project beneficiaries will be the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade, the Border Police, and the transport and trade
associations. The implementation arrangements will include the following elements : (i) the
project coordinator; (ii) the project manager and her project implementation team; (iii) the trade
facilitation coordinator; and (iv) the regional steering committee (RSC).
The proposed Project Coordinator is the Minister of Finance of Albania. The Coordinator will
call and chair coordination meetings of the various border agencies and manage their input. The
Project Coordinator was authorized by the Council of Ministers to represent the country in the
RSC.



Page I I
The MOF will implement the project. The Minister of Finance has hired a Project Manager
who is setting up a Project Implementation Team (PIT) covering procurement, loan
management and reporting functions acceptable to IDA. The PIT will be completely established
by credit effectiveness. The project manager will make an evaluation of the workload for the PIT
and plan resources accordingly. The PIT will be responsible for project management. The Roads
project implementation unit (PIU) attached to the Ministry of Transport (currently managing the
IDA financed National Roads Project in Albania) will assist the PIT in drafting technical
specifications, bidding documents and bid evaluation for the project roads and bridges sub-
component"; similarly the GDC through its investment and information technology departments
will assist the PIT in the preparation of the specifications, bidding documents and bid evaluation
for the Customs components financed by the IDA credit. The PIT will prepare terns of
reference, hire consultants, and contract for services, training, goods, and civil works as necessary
for implementation of the project.
The Alba Pro-Committee will manage the trade facilitation component and has designated a
Trade Facilitation Coordinator, who will interact with the Project Manager for the
implementation of the component.
The GDC and the Border Police will ensure that appropriate technical expertise is engaged to
support the Project Manager. Cooperating partners (the Ministries of Transport, Environment, and
Agriculture) will be involved in the definition of new procedures for border controls.
Given the scope (six countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the related policy
and institutional reforms anticipated, the Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting
periodically at the regional level, will oversee the overall implementation of the program. The
participating countries have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) setting up the RSC.
The RSC is made up of high-level officials of the participating countries (the Minister of Finance
in the case of Albania), and donor representatives as observers. It will provide guidance for the
necessary sector policy and reform decisions. Meetings rotate among the participating countries,
with the project manager of the host country providing support services to the RSC.
The UN-ECE is providing a secretary to the RSC to support the implementation of the program.
The secretary'2 will: (i) prepare the agenda, supporting documentation and minutes for the RSC
meetings; (ii) consolidate on a semi-annual basis the implementation reports of the countries
involved in the program; (iii) consolidate the annual review report of the Project Implementation
Teams; (iv) assist in the trade facilitation efforts; and (v) establish a link to the SECI-PRO
committees.
In order to provide a model of pragmatic solution to border crossing problems, the project
includes implementation of operational reforms at two pilot border crossings located on the
main corridors (Qafe Thane on the border with fYR Macedonia, and Durres, the main exit port at
the Adriatic Sea) and one pilot inland terminal (Tirana). FYR Macedonia will similarly be
creating as one of its pilot stations the facilities on the other side of the border with Albania
(Kafasan). All the TTFSE neighboring countries will develop pilot sites at their borders with
each other, whenever possible, thus creating a corridor for implementation of border crossing
operational restructuring. A more detailed set of indicators for management purposes is being
" To ensure the project quality and its timely implementation, an agreement will be signed between the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport defining the technical support and contribution to be
provided by the Roads PIU to the PIT.
12 The secretary will be sharing his time between his TTFSE responsibilities and the management of the
SECI-PRO committees.



Page 12
developed at these pilot sites. The indicators will be used by each country to examine and allow
the evaluation of comparative performance.
This framework will provide an assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success
of the solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The results will be
updated each quarter by the PIT in addition to the project indicators in Annex 1, and offered to
the RSC for review and comparison. The lessons learned from these case studies will be
extended to other specific border crossings in the participating countries and to change
management in general. Sharing the case studies, along with other project reports, with the
customs services and transport associations in countries not associated with the TTFSE will set
quality targets in Customs reforms beyond the region.
(c) Procurement and Disbursement
Civil works, goods and services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA
procurement guidelines. Procurement will be undertaken by the PIT established within the MOF.
The PIT will be staffed permanently with a procurement specialist. The procurement specialist
will be supported with outside procurement advisors as required13. Contracts for all civil works,
equipment and consulting services and training relating to Customs, as well as for the design and
supervision of civil works at BCPs, will be prepared by the PIT in close cooperation and
consultation with the GDC. The Roads PIU will assist the PIT in preparation of the technical
specifications and bidding documents for the roads and bridges sub-component, under an
agreement to be signed between the MOF and MOT (see footnote 11 above). The management
of all project funds, including the signing of roads contracts, will be carried out by the PIT.
The project components not financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with national
regulations or the procurement regulations of the co-financing institutions. The project elements,
their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A of Annex 6. Consultant
selection arrangements are summa-rized in Table Al of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing
the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table C of
Annex 6. The plan was agreed upon and finalized at negotiations. All other procurement
information, including the capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication
of the General Procurement Notice and the IDA review process, is presented in Table B of Annex
6. All disbursement arrangements are set out in Annex 6.
d Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
A Financial Management System'4 (FMS) will be established prior to credit effectiveness. The
FMS has met the minimum IDA financial management requirements (4-B LACI Certification)
prior to Board presentation. IDA has reviewed the FMS and has prepared a report identifying
weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system and enable the development of
appropriate project management reports, with a view to the possible transition to PMR-based
disbursement methodology at the Borrower's option. IDA has defined a time-bound action plan
to specify the steps necessary for: (i) credit effectiveness and (ii) further strengthening of
procedures and staff development during implementation. The development of the FMS will be
monitored by IDA before effectiveness, during the first supervision mission, and throughout
project implementation.
'3 The procurement advisors will be individuals with satisfactory country and World Bank procurement
experience, to be funded by the IDA credit.
14 Including accounting, financial reporting, auditing and proper internal control systems.



Page 13
The PIT will establish and maintain project accounts adequate to provide information regarding
project resources and expenditures. To that end, the project manager hired a suitably qualified
accounting/financial specialist. The PIT will have accounts audited every fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with IDA guidelines and International
Standards of Auditing, issued by the International Federation of Accountants and IDA guidelines.
The reports of such audits will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year. The financial audit for the first two years will be undertaken by the
auditor selected by the Borrower, and acceptable to IDA, following an arrangement between
GOA and the Southeast Europe Management Unit of IDA. A multi-year contract to carry out the
audits of the entire Country Portfolio was awarded to Deloitte & Touche in year 2000. The PIT
will also maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices. A management letter giving an opinion on internal
audit controls should be submitted to IDA six months after effectiveness of the credit.
(e) Reporting
The PIT will prepare quarterly progress reports and transmit them to IDA and the RSC; the RSC
secretary will consolidate the reports on a semi-annual basis, and forward them to IDA. These
reports will include: the progress of each project component, key performance indicators,
procurement issues (actions dealt with, actions planned, and an update of procurement
implementation). The reports will measure performance against the implementation schedule and
compliance with Credit covenants.
G' Supervision and evaluation arrangements
Supervision will be managed at the national level by World Bank Headquarters staff with active
involvement of the Country Office, and at the regional level by a program team leader from
World Bank Headquarters. The World Bank will devote some 80 staff weeks for supervision of
program and project progress through FY2004. This includes IDA's contribution to the time of a
senior customs specialist, jointly funded by a French trust fund.
Each October or November during the implementation of the project, IDA together with the PIT
and the other development partners (EU, US) will conduct a review of project execution. The
review will assess the status of regional and national project implementation and cooperation,
progress made at the level of pilot sites compared to targets, implementation of donor programs,
and productivity of the GDC. The review will offer refined targets and objectives for the
following year and a set of recommendations. The schedule of procurement for the coming year
will be agreed at the time of the review, considering the progress to date in the institutional
reform.
(g) Monitoring
Overall, project monitoring will be based on performance targets and indicators (Annex 1) and
the Project Implementation Plan. This plan will was finalized with the Borrower and was agreed
on during negotiations. Monitoring will be carried out by the MOF through its PIT, assisted by
consultants as necessary.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a. Separate Individual projects carried out by each country



Page 14
The possibility of preparing independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and
rejected, since the achievement of overall project objectives will be greatly aided by simultaneous
standardization and harmonization of cross border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks
among countries and with the EU.
b. Regional program of investment projects
A regional program of coordinated border crossing facilitation projects is more advantageous and
was selected since it will:
*  generate substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade
partner countries of Albania, which, if also implementing the program, will in turn bring
benefit to Albania industries/consumers;
*  allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs and
border control procedures/operations;
*  be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of European integration, and
the impact of the EU enlargement process;
*  enable IDA to coordinate with other donors that also implement regional projects; and
*  maximize project benefits and minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-
simultaneous implementation.
c. Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
A regional or "horizontal" APL, including Alternative b above as a first phase, would have
enabled sequential entry of countries in the Program. The delegation to the Regional Vice
President of approval of operations according to a well defined operational blue print was
proposed. This horizontal APL, however, was judged to be infeasible because (i) such delegation
by the Board was thought unlikely; and (ii) the deternination of the future value of performance
indicators to include potential borrowers in the program would have been a delicate and risky
task, given the inherent complexity of the program. For these reasons, Alternative b was
preferred.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                   Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-finance  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Public Sector Management    Tax Administration                   S               S
Modernization
Transportation              National Roads                       S              S
Transportation              Durres Port                          S              S
Other development agencies
EU                          PHARE Multi-Country and
Cross-Border Country Programs
European Commission         CAM-A
EBRD                        Trade Facilitation Program
USAID                       Albania Customs Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Albania has made considerable effort to improve its border crossings with external aid. Despite
the progress made, further efforts are still required. The border crossing problem, by its nature,
requires coordinated and mutually reinforcing actions in many areas. The reform effort is
integrated to ensure complementarity of donors' assistance, i..e. the EU, the US and the World
Bank.
The main lesson learned from ongoing World Bank projects is the importance of keeping project
objectives and scope simple so as not to exceed the limited absorptive capacity of the ministries
and the local staff of other organizations.
The EU-PHARE, USAID and EBRD experiences show that in order to lessen transaction costs at
border crossings, border crossings investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic
data; (ii) accurate information on waiting times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a
border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-agency needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies;
(vi) reliable communications infrastructure and equipment; (vii) communication with users; and
(viii) coordination and simplification of customs procedures and removal of state controls on
international trade.
These lessons are reflected in the design of the present project. The project design was tailored to
respond to stakeholders' concerns following active consultations. The project will focus on the
implementation of Customs integrated solutions at a national level and local level (pilot border
crossings). It will also address critical improvements of roads and bridges along N-S and E-W
corridors. The pilots will stimulate cooperation across border and among agencies to optimize
procedures, communication links and monitoring of performance. Customs users will receive
training and advisory services to enhance their professional skills. They will be encouraged to
voice their concerns and priorities and will receive accurate and timely information on existing
procedures.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Under SECI, Albania and other participating countries declared their strong commitment to
facilitate legitimate trade. The Ministry of Finance affirmed long ago its commitment to the
development and implementation of the TTFSE project. The continuous dialogue with the
country and the agreements reached during project preparation, stand as clear statements of
borrower commitment and ownership.
The Memorandum of Understanding setting up the Regional Steering Committee for the TTFSE
program was signed by all six countries' representatives in Skopje, on February 10, 2000,
confirming project ownership and commitment towards program implementation and regional
cooperation.
Commitment to the reform at an operational level (border posts, regional directorates) is less
assured and will be a special point of focus through the pilots.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
At the outset, the commitment of the participating governments to the TTFSE objectives was
weak. Albania was unable to fund border crossing improvements entirely from its own budgets;
also, long-term financing was more attractive. The EU and other donors have limited capacity to
fund infrastructure. As to technical assistance, the government was (and remains) reluctant to
borrow for foreign technical assistance because of its high cost relative to local salaries. The best



Page 16
solution therefore was to combine IDA credit financing for infrastructure with US grants for TA.
The fact that IDA was willing to finance infrastructure only on condition that Customs reform
and institutional strengthening was carried out in parallel, has reinforced the attention given to the
latter. Furthermore, IDA through its broader lending and country assistance strategies is well
placed to help promote cooperation and coordination of policies and public spending.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=USS5.3 million (12% discount rate); ERR= 33%
The project is expected to have a good return/ high risk profile with a potential for high return.
The net present value is estimated at US$5.3 million on an investment of US$9.5 million. Three
benefits have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at
border crossings and inland terminals; (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from
the project; and (iii) transport savings linked to the roads sub-component.
Waiting at border crossings is the concrete manifestation of inefficiency in trade related services.
In the European Union, customs administrations are required to keep 90 percent of vehicles
waiting no more than 20 minutes, or about 40 minutes to cross both sides of a border point. The
difference between present waiting times at Albanian borders and a target of 40 minutes to cross
both sides of the border has been used as the basis to test the economic justification of investing
in border crossing improvements. The savings on transport costs related to border and customs
improvements are estimated in excess of US$2.3 million per year after 2005 for vehicles entering
Albania. The reduction in costs to trade and the increased reliability of delivery times are
expected to lead, in the medium run, to a significant increase in trade volumes, which would
make use of existing excess production capacity. Extrapolating from analysis of some specific
cases, the trade expansion resulting from the project is assumed to generate a benefit equivalent to
20 percent of transport benefits. The road improvements and rehabilitation would generate a net
present value of US$2.5 million.
The switching values and sensitivity analysis indicate a robust project. In all scenarios tested (see
Annex 4, Table 4.3) the ERR would remain above 20%. Reducing current crossing time by 40
minutes at the pilot sites would suffice to achieve an ERR of 12 percent (see Annex 4, Table 4.4).
2. Financial and Fiscal:
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive. The real volume of trade is thought to
be much higher than shown by official records, both as to quantities and unit values. The
improved performance of border crossings should provide the basis for a significant expansion of
the official volume of trade and generate additional customs duties and excise taxes.
IDA will finance all foreign costs and, in the case of civil works, a small part of local costs. The
Government will fund all other local costs, as well as all taxes and customs duties, when
applicable.
Provision of local funds for the project financing is not expected to create a problem - they
represent on average about US$1.2 million. Debt servicing responsibilities will be fulfilled by the
MOF.



Page 17
3. Technical:
The site and building works in the project do not require complex design or construction methods
at the border crossing locations. It is important that the design is scrutinized, not only to
minimize costs, but also to fit the construction time within the project duration. The works are
relatively simple, involving building construction, road widening, and electrical systems works.
The roads and bridges design and related works are of moderate complexity. It is necessary,
however, to employ full-time site supervision services of independent consulting firms to ensure
quality. The complementary assistance to the ICIS component to be financed by IDA will require
close cooperation with the EC, CAM-A, and UNCTAD during the project life, to ensure
coordinated implementation of ASYCUDA system.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing Agencies: Project Manager and her Project Implementation Team (PIT)
Implementation will be overseen by the Project Manager and her Project Implementation Team
(PIT). The Project Coordinator will enable the PIT to obtain the input of the various agencies
involved. An IDA Financial Management Specialist has assisted the Project Manager in
establishing the financial management system. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
the organization, staffing, and resources necessary for the PIT to operate satisfactorily. Its full
implementation will be a condition of effectiveness.
The Trade Facilitation Development component will be managed by the Albania Pro-Committee
in collaboration with Government agencies and the private sector. The Ministry of Economic
Cooperation and Trade has appointed a Facilitation Coordinator, who will interact with the
Project Manager located in MOF.
b. Project Management: Regional Steering Committee
The Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting at least once every three months, oversees the
coordination and implementation of the Program and the proposed project. The RSC is made up
of high-level officials of participating countries (the Finance Minister in the case of Albania)
empowered to implement necessary sector policy and reform decisions.
5. Social:
The Project will have an indirect impact on the poor. The reduction in border crossing delays will
reduce trade and transport costs and, in turn, also the cost of imported goods, leading to benefits
to consumers and lower cost of inputs required for local manufacturing with corresponding
creation of new jobs. This import effect will however be partly offset by the loss incurred by local
producers, when new imports replace local products.
The project aims at improving access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics
through the training extended to the business community. The TTFSE website will allow access
to all information related to border crossings in the six countries involved in the Program,
improving to a large extent transparency, thereby reducing opportunities for illegal payments.
The electronic forum under the website will empower the business community in the region and
outside by enabling it to voice its opinion on the quality of the border services received and
propose corresponding recommendations to smooth trade and transport activities.



Page 18
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    []A   [X] B  [J C
Since the improvements at the border crossings involve limited enhancement of existing facilities
within already developed areas, the Environmental Category was confirmed as B. These works
consist of building a warehouse, road widening, canopy erection, the installation of electrical and
drainage systems, and the rehabilitation of existing border crossing offices. The road and bridge
rehabilitation works subsequently included in the project are consistent with this same
classification. The works associated with the Fushe Kruje-Mamurras Road and the Librazhad-
Qafe Thane bridges will complete the on-going or carried-over works previously included in the
IDA-financed Transport Project (Cr. 2499-ALB) and National Roads Project (Cr. 2888-ALB) and
have already been cleared from an environmental point of view. The Lezhe Connection,
providing essential linkage between two key roads in the national road network, involves an
upgrading of a 2.3 km existing road along an existing alignment. An environmental assessment
for this segment was conducted in conjunction with the Milot-Lezhe Road, but no application was
made previously for a construction permit for this segment. An application by GRD has been
presented to the National Environmental Agency (NEA) for a future permit for this segment on
the basis of the existing assessment. The specific permits, both on environment and construction,
will be obtained by the selected contractor prior to the works startup. NEA has confirmed that it
does not anticipate any negative impact from this segment and that the permit will be issued.
All designs for station improvements and road and bridge works will ensure compatibility with
Albanian environmental regulations and environmentally sound construction standards and
procedures. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the project (as presented in Annex
10) was prepared to minimize negative environmental impact and strengthen coordination and
collaboration with the National Environmental Agency. The final version of the EMP was agreed
upon at negotiations, and attached as an annex to the PIP. Evidence on dissemination of the EMP
to the public has been made available by the Borrower before Board presentation.
Training will be provided to sensitize operational personnel in the GDC to environmental issues.
In any event, the overall impact of the project should be positive, since it should lessen waiting
times and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles at the border crossings as well as
reduce operating costs for and emissions from vehicles using the rehabilitated and upgraded roads
and bridges.
The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions
and agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be the regulations included
in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of
Dangerous Goods by Road of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the
Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species; (iii) the Convention on the
International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such
Carriage, of September 1970; and (iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal, of May 1992.
7. Participatory approach:
The project has been designed to fully reflect the views expressed by principal stakeholders,
including such customs users as truckers and freight forwarders. IDA staff conducted extensive
interviews and stakeholder analysis to identify trade impediments and their remedial actions. In
addition, the activities planned under the Trade Facilitation Development component will foster
opportunities for closer, more frequent and transparent contact and feedback between the GDC
and the trading community.



Page 19
In support of the reform of the work culture for the GDC, the project will make available a
consultant to establish and assist focus groups of key stakeholders. This activity will be
coordinated with other aid agencies and existing stakeholder groups (Alba-PRO). The
Government will also initiate a public information program designed to reach stakeholders and
the public. User surveys are envisioned as a basis for performance indicators. Principal
stakeholders, for example truckers, will also be involved in monitoring border delays. The project
and the program will make intense use of the Alba-PRO and count on its feedback to monitor
improvements.
The project has been prepared in collaboration (COL), consultation (CON), and information
sharing (IS) with the following:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups:
* Exporters, importers, producers, and consumers (CON)
* Road transport operators (COL)
* Freight forwarders/shippers (COL)
* Traders organizations and Alba-PRO (CON)
* Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade (COL)
* Foreign investors (IS)
* Ministry of Finance and General Directorate of Customs (COL)
* Ministry of Transport (CON)
* General Roads Directorate (COL)
* Ministry of Agriculture as well as sanitary and veterinary inspection agencies
(CON)
* Ministry of Interior and the Border Police
b. Other Key Stakeholders:
* The European Commission, CAM-A, the US Government
* IRU and FIATA'5
* WCO
* Private companies, and population in the vicinity of borders (IS)
A specialist in participatory methodology will assist in the design and implementation of a Project
Launch Workshop at a regional level. The specialist will also provide a preliminary action plan,
which will be adopted as a guide for user participation under the Trade Facilitation Development
Component (Annex 2). The Action Plan will use output provided by the participants that
attended the Project Launch Workshop.
As follow-up to the Project Launch Workshop, the Action Plan will include, for example, such
activities as a series of user focus groups as well as user surveys. The focus groups will provide
an open index of user satisfaction. Surveys of such key stakeholders as truckers and freight
forwarders will provide the basis for more quantifiable information as part of the verification plan
for the performance indicators, assuring a central role of such stakeholders in project monitoring.
The PIT with the assistance of Alba-PRO will be responsible for implementing the Action Plan.
The results will be reported as part of the annual review.
15 FIATA - Federation of International Forwarding Agents.



Page 20
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project will support values that are critical to fulfilling Albania's long-term objective of
achieving sustainable growth. Once these reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort will
be assured by transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing
agencies including those of other countries, and the gains accruing to all parties involved in
legitimate trade. The expected increase in revenue collection will allow continuous upgrading of
the customs services, procedures, management, and equipment enabling the GDC to cope with
trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and continued compatibility with the EU.
Considering Albania country risks, the risks of project failure are high. At the level of the region,
effective cooperation could greatly enhance the development impact, but is also subject to great
uncertainty.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                   Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Trade will not increase as expected      H    The reduction in costs to trade through the reforms
at pilots, and the increased reliability of delivery
times will lead to increasing trade volumes.
Cooperation among border agencies faces  S    The high-level national coordinator will have the
inertia and strong resistance.                 authority to request meetings gathering involved
agencies.
Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will not    M  Enforcement of procedures at pilots will reduce
reduce illegitimate trade.                     significantly the risk.
Political commitment is not adequate to  H    Cooperation with, and assistance from the EU is a
resist pressure groups (public or private)     strong incentive to proceed with the reform.
and to ensure the success of the
institutional program.
Coordination by RSC is not effective and  M    Donors are an integral part of the Program. The
does not receive participation by donors       RSC will include key decision-makers of each
program country and observers from donor
countries.
Regional cooperation issues prevent the  H    The MOU, the RSC, the regional website, the
achievement of regional goals.                 benchmarking and the willingness to cooperate
with the EU will create a favorable environment
for proper cooperation.
Annex 1. cell "from Components to
Outputs"
The willingness to introduce deep change  S    The performance at pilot sites will trigger the
at pilot sites across agencies is low.         disbursement for some physical infrastructure
components.
The targeting and selectivity techniques  M    The effective implementation of targeting and
are not effectively implemented at an          selectivity techniques will trigger the disbursement
operational level.                            for some physical infrastructure components.



Page 21
Funding and implementation of           S    Close coordination with the EU and organization
ASYCUDA clearance system are delayed          of joint donors missions will ensure timely
beyond project life                          implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                     H    This is a high risk-good return project with a
potential for high return .
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk             Type of   Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
Risk    Rating
Delays in institutional changes  G      S    Coordination with other donors.
Resistance by some GDC         G        H    Fight against corruption is a major objective of
officers (loss of revenue)                    GDC's Strategy. The transparency of requirements
e.g. by   using the website, the monitoring
activities, the surveys will reduce opportunities.
Corruption in customs system   G        S    Efforts to strengthen integrity have been launched,
and additional training will be introduced to
enhance the capacity of GDC to address
_________________________ _          _______    corruption.
Type of Risk: S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition:
Establishment of a Project Implementation Team with appropriate staffing, organization,
systems (including a financial management system), funds, facilities, and other resources in a
manner satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other: (according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreement):
a. By November 15 of each year, the Borrower and IDA will review progress achieved under
the project, including at the pilot sites based on agreed performance monitoring indicators,
and will confirm the implementation program (including procurement packaging) and
performance targets for the following year.
b. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the total number of
customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by the GDC at its pilot inland
terminal does not exceed on a monthly basis (i) 60 percent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 35
percent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 25 percent by September 30, 2003.
c. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the monthly number of
trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland terminal will
exceed (i) 10 percent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 30 percent by September 30, 2002; and (iii)
40 percent by September 30, 2003.
d. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number of containers
opened on a monthly basis at its pilot border crossing of Durres will not exceed: (i) 80
percent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 50 percent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 20 percent by
September 30, 2003.



Page 22
e. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number of trucks
opened on a monthly basis at its pilot border crossing of Qafe Thane will not exceed: (i) 60
percent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 40 percent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 20 percent by
September 30, 2003.
f. By March 31, 2001, the Borrower, through its Project Coordinator, will establish a
mechanism across all border agencies to provide the Trade Facilitation/Website Coordinator
with up-to-date information on waiting times and opening hours at border crossings, customs
law, by-laws, and procedures of border agencies; this information shall be binding and made
available to customs users in order to contest a decision at a border post.
g. The Borrower will maintain its participation in the Regional Steering Committee and inform
IDA of actions taken at the RSC level which may affect the implementation of the Regional
Program or of measures included in the PIP.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Program Team Leader / TasklManag r: Graham Smith / Anca Dumitrescu, ECSIN
Sector Manager/Director: Riardo  . a    ECSIN
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman, ECC04
,1o/



Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Proiect Design Summary
Narrative Summary                Key Performance Indicators           Monitoring and Evaluation              Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Strengthening of governance    Quality of customs services gradually improving    Ministry of Finance  Tax proceeds will be used transparently and
and institution building     in user survey                                                           appropriately.
Resumption of sustained     Total trade increasing from US$1.2 billion in 1999  Ministry of Finance and  Wealth is distributed appropriately to alleviate
private sector growth       to US$2 billion in 2002                       Ministry of Economic        poverty
Cooperation and Trade
Promotion of human          Availability of information and training for the  General Directorate of  *  Adequate social security net is introduced.
development and poverty     professionals involved in trade and transport  Customs                    *  Road operators licensing is approximated
alleviation                                                                                               with the European "acquis".
*  Liberal markets access in general
intemational trade
Project Development Objectives:
I. Reduce non-tariff costs to  Transport costs for the main commodity traded to  *  Annual  sampling   by  *  Business environment such as competitive
trade and transport         the  three  main  trading  partners decreasing   Chamber of Commerce          market, post-privatization corporate
annually by 2 % on average from year 2001       and evolution of CIF/FOB     governance and judicial and regulatory
ratio.                      systems will be improved.
*  Reform in the banking/insurance sector will
Study   performed   at      reinforce trade activities.  Reduction in
project completion.         tariff levels and  non-tariff costs will
enhance trade incentives.
2. Reduce smuggling and      *  Value of recorded imports increased from  *  GDC annual report        Non-customs tax collection will be made also
corruption at border crossing   US$0.9 billion in 1999 to US$1.4 billion in  *  Annual survey of truckers  more efficient.
2003                                        crossing the border
*  Occurrence of corruption reduced by 50% by
200316.
Outputs: (Outputs to Objectives):
I. Strengthen the institutional   *  Import clearance time at pilot terminal down   *  Logs of Customs  *  The transport sector will offer a competitive
capacity of GDC and other       from 4 hours in 1999 to I hour on average in   *  IRU in cooperation with  environment.
border agencies                 2003.                                        the National Associations  *  Cooperation between border agencies will
*  Physical examination down from 90% in        of Road Transport            be supported by the Finance Minister
1999 to 25% in 2003                         Operators                *  Border agencies will be given the political
*  Percentage of trucks cleared in less than 15                              mandate to innovate at pilot sites.
16 See definition of indicators                                                                                                                      IQCD
ol



minutes up from 0 in 1999 to 40% in 2003.
2. Support customs users     Internet framework and forum set up in 2001 for    GDC supported by the     The banking / insurance industry will be able to
private/public sector information exchange.   Website Coordinator          provide services to the trade sector at a
Internet site visits exceed 300/month in 2001.                             reasonable price.
Current GDC services available on the internet in
2001.
3. Strengthen ICIS to provide    Full support to targeting and selectivity by  *  GDC                    Information will be availabie to, and used by
high level internal and external  December 2001.                                                         other agencies for the improvement of respective
aAlba-PRO
services                                                                                                 services.
4. Improve main border       All works completed by June 30, 2004.          Periodic surveys of users on  The border crossings selected will remain
crossing facilities                                                         the duration and the         critical in the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis
convenience of border        thanks to their location on main corridors.
crossings (incl. monitoring of
congestion)
5. Strengthen on-site        * Irregularities/number of examinations up from    *  Ministry of Finance   Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will result in
inspections to prevent            3 % in 1999 to 20 % in 2003 (borders)     *  GDC                       significant regularization of trade.
smuggling                                                                                                 Political commitment is adequate to resist
pressure groups (public-private) and ensure the
success of the institutional program.
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs: budgetfor each component'7                                           (Components to Outputs)
components:
A. Customs Services           US$ 0.8million                                Surveys of Customs Brokers    Border agencies will actively participate in the
Procedures Reform                                                                                         implementation of pilots.
*  Monitoring and review of
procedures                                                                                            US parallel funding is implemented in time and
*  Training                                                                                              with good quality
B. Trade Facilitation        US$ 0.4million                                 National Coordinator         Other on-going regional initiatives for trade will
Development                                                                                              continue operating.
*  Expertise, Advice and                                                    Trade facilitation coordinator
Equipment                                                                                             US parallel funding is implemented in time and
*  Training & Seminars                                                                                   with good quality
C. Support to ICIS           US$ 2.3million                                 MOF/PIT supported by GDC    The ASYCUDA system will be fully operational
*  ICIS complementary                                                                                    by 2003.
equipment
*  Telecommunications
*  ICIS personal training
D. Improvement Roads and    US$ 8.2million                                  MOF/PIT supported by Roads  Political stability and order in the country are
i The costs described below are base costs; therefore, they do not include contingencies.
O-



Border Crossing Facilities                                                 PIU                           maintained.
*  Qafe Thane border                                                                                     Consultants and contractors for border and roads
improvement                                                                                          works, design, and supervision are selected in
*  Morina border                                                                                         time and on competitive basis.
improvement
* Border equipment
* Fushe Kruje-Mamurrasi
E      Lezhe Connection
* Librazhd-Qafe Thane
* Design & Supervision
E. Program and Project       US$ 0.6million                                MOF/PIT
Implementation
* RSC and Auditors
* PIT operating costs
,JQ



Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
Performance Tarizets
Indicators                                   1999        Sep 2000         Sep 2001           Sep 2002          Sep 2003
Act    ITIrg.    Act    Targ.  I Act         Targ.     Act    Targ.    Act
1. Performance of General Directorate of Customs (GDC)
Pilot Inland Terminal of Tirana
Import Clearance Time (min.)                  240       200               150               120                60
Physical Examination (%/o)                    90         75               60                 35                25
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min. (%)        0         0                10                 30                40
Irregularities/ No. of examinations (%)        3         5                8                  I 1               15
Pilot Border Crossing of Durres
Truck Examination (%)                         100        95               80                 50                20
Irregularities/ No. of Examinations (%)        3         5                7                  11                15
Average Border Exit Time (min.)               55         50               45                 40                30
Average Border Entry Time (min.)              120       110               95                 80                60
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (index)     100        99               98                 97                95
Pilot Border Crossing of Qafe Thane
Truck Examination (%)                         100        80               60                 40                20
Irregularities/No. of Examinations (%)         3         5                7                  14                20
Average Border Exit Time (min)                40         35               30                 25                20
Average Border Entry Time (min)               80         70               55                 40                30
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (index)     100        99               98                 97                95
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue collected/customs staff (US$ 000)     328       330              350                375               400
Total GDC Cost/Revenue collected (%)          1.87      1.85             1.78               1.62               1.5
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)                0.7       0.7              0.7                0.7               0.7
Trade Volume/Number of staff (US$ 000)        1,516     1,550 |       | 1,650              1,800             2,000
Annual Number of Declarations/ Custom Staff   277       320              450                610               800
Transport Cost for the main export commodity  100       100               98                 96                94
traded with the three main trading partners
(US$- base 100 in 1999)                    _           _______                                                        ______
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ mil.)          938       1,117 |   _      1,218             1,327              1,447  _
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ mil.)          275       353              413                475               547
Source of actual values                           1999
Total GDC Revenue Collected (US$ mil.)                      262
Total GDC Cost (US$ million)                                4.9
Total Number of GDC Staff                                   800
Total GDC Salaries (US$ million)                             1.8
Annual Number of Declarations (millions)                  221,376
Trade Volume (US$ million)                                 1,213



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
Performance Indicators - Definitions
Indicators                              Description                        Remarks
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot inland terminals
Import Clearance Time   Time between entrance of truck into the   Information on truck identification and
terminal and its exit from the terminal    time of arrival and departure will be
after release of goods.              recorded with the use of computer
terminals or time clocks installed at the
terminal entry and exit points.
Physical Examination    Number of times goods are examined or   Information will be derived from the
the cargo compartment is searched    computer system that records all
compared to the total number of import,   declarations and the requirement to
export, and suspense declarations.   prepare an automated report of the
results of each physical examination.
Trucks Cleared in Less  Number of times that a truck completes    Information will be developed using the
Than 15 Minutes         import clearance (time between entry into  same system that provides the data on
the terminal and departure after release of  import clearance times.
goods) in less than fifteen minutes
compared to the total number of import
clearances.
Irregularities/Number of   Number of irregularities discovered  Information will be obtained from the
Examinations            during physical examinations compared to  automated reporting of the results of all
the total number of physical examinations  physical examinations.
carried out.
Pilot Border Crossings
Truck Examinations      Number of entering trucks actually    Information will be compiled through
opened (i.e. seals broken) compared to the  the use of computerized traffic logs and
total number of entering trucks processed.  the requirement to prepare an automated
report of the results of each truck
examination.
Irregularities/Number of   Number of irregularities discovered  Information will be extracted from the
Examinations            during examinations compared to the total automated reports of truck
number of trucks examined.           examinations.
Average Border Exit Time  For trucks exiting the country, it is the  Information on truck identification and
time between joining the queue and   times will be recorded continuously
crossing the border. Physically inspected   with the use of computer terminals or
trucks are excluded.                 time clocks installed at appropriate
locations.
Average Border Entry    For trucks entering the country, it is the    Information on truck identification and
Time                    time between crossing the border and  times will be recorded continuously
departing the station. Physically inspected  with the use of computer terminals or
trucks are excluded.                 time clocks installed at appropriate
locations.
Index of Surveyed       Number of cases when a driver makes or  Information to calculate this indicator
Occurrence of Corruption   is asked to make an unauthorized payment index will be derived from surveys of
(base 100 at the beginning of the project).  truck drivers using the crossing point.



Annex I
Page 6 of 6
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue Collected/       Total revenues collected/Total number of Information to be obtained from records
Customs Staff            Customs employees                    maintained by the Customs Service.
Total Customs Service    Total budget of the Customs Service  Information to be obtained from
Cost/Revenue Collected   (including salaries, overtime, bonuses,   records maintained by the Customs
and benefits)/Total revenue collected  Service.
irrespective of its destination
Salaries/Revenue Collected  Total agency salaries, overtime, bonuses,  Information to be obtained from records
and benefits/Total revenue collected  maintained by the Customs Service.
irrespective of its destination
Trade Volume/Customs     Trade Volume/Number of Customs       Information to be obtained from records
Staff                    employees                            maintained by the Customs Service.
Annual Number of         Total number of declarations (import,    Information to be obtained from records
Declarations/ Custom Staff  export, suspense regimes, but excluding   maintained by the Customs Service.
transit), irrespective of the number of
items/Total staff employed by Customs
Transport Cost for the main
export commodity traded
with the three main trading
partners (US$- base 100 in
1999)
Regional Performance Indicators
2000       2001        2002       2003       2003
as %of
as2000
1. Istanbul-Bucharest  Avg. Time (hours)      80          78          75         71         89
Average Cost         $1,015     $1,000       $975       $940        93
II. Istanbul-Tirana    Avg. Time (hours)      192         189        182         172        90
Average Cost         $2,800     $2,760      $2,690     $2,600       93
III. Sarajevo-Ljubljana    Avg. Time (hours)  40          40          39         38         95
Average Cost         $750        $740        $730       $720        96
Base-year values are estimated by IDA staff for a single 20 ton truck-load, based on a survey of freight
forwarders in the Southeast Europe region



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Detailed Project Description
(NBF) = Non Bank Financed
Note: All costs in the tables are without contingencies.
A.  Customs Services Procedures Reform - USA funded
Cost with contingencies US$ 0.8 million
Component       Sub component     Investment                           Ietails
(USS)
1. Monitoring    1. 1. Monitor and  120,000    Refine the set of productivity and workload indicators for each
and review of   refine productivity   (NVBF)    customs function to measure the perforrnance of ACS, and design
procedures     and workload                  the corresponding monitoring systems. These indicators should
indicators enabling           enable comparison among customs administrations in the region and
international                 worldwide.
comparisons
1.2. Designated    540,000    Establish programs to implement new border processing procedures
border stations and   (NBF)    and practices on a test basis, with a view to expanding the use of
inland Customs                successful ideas nationwide. Those areas to be addressed include
stations will serve           procedures, staffing, automation and cooperation among agencies.
as test sites for
ideas to improve
operations.
2. Training    3. 1. Interagency   30,000    Will stimulate the proper functioning of border agencies. Includes:
awareness and      (NBF)    (i) sensitization of customs staff to the importance of environment;
training                      (ii) training of customs staff in elementary veterinary and phyto-
sanitary issues;
(iii) training ofjudges, police and other officials involved in
customs prosecutions; and
(iv) assistance for the implementation of international conventions
related to environment.
Total without contingencies        690,000
________________________ (NBF)
B. Trade Facilitation Development -USA funded
Cost with contingencies: US$ 0.4 million
Compyonent         Sub component         linvestment                     Details
1. Strengthening of  1.1. Establish and   100,000   Design a regional web-site and mechanisms to update it.
Private-Public     maintain a regional    (NBF)    The website will enable transparency on policies, legal
Partnership        website to support the           and regulatory framework and co-operation at a local,
program and act as a            national and regional level among private and public
focal point for trade           parties. It will offer a comprehensive informnation resource
facilitation                    on border crossings and inland terminals (pictures), on
procedures of border agencies in the region, and support
______________ __  the implementation of the TTFSE Program. All training



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
materials developed under the Trade Facilitation
.            ~~~~~Development will be made available on the site.
2. Improvement of  2.1. Expert services    300,000   Develop and implement a series of distance learning
the performance of  and training            (NBF)    programs in trade, transport, and logistics focussed on
trade facilitation                                    facilitating trade. The programs will consist of. (i) a study
agents                                                guide; (ii) study sessions; (iii) reference readings; (iv)
frequently asked questions; (v) exams; and (vi)
certification by a lead professional association. Seminars
will be offered for the most critical study sessions.
Materials will be made available either electronically on
the website or in the form of paper copies printed out at
the Alba -PRO Commitee.
Total without contingencies                400,000
(NBF)
C. Support to Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) (IDA and GOA financed)
Cost with contingencies: US$2.3 million
component         Sub component            Investment                       Detail
(USS)
1. Equipment for  Introduce computer and    900,000   Includes: (i) purchase of computers, printers, scanners,
support to ICIS   other auxiliary equipment           and other IT equipment, destined to improve
(Hardware)        at Customs sites,                   throughout the ACS the capacity to control persons,
supporting and                      goods, and vehicles, exchange information with other
complementing the                   control, enforcement, or revenue, agencies (and to be
development of EU-funded            linked to the Ministry of Transport), and the
ASYCUA system                       implementation of simple reporting mechanisms for
pilot sites; (ii) purchase of UPS, generators, special
lockers with adequate power and air-conditioning for
the local servers, and switchboard, as and where
necessary, and (iii) complementary work, fixtures, and
purchase of equipment, for insuring access control and
protection against intrusion, fire, and other incidents.
This equipment should (i) be compatible with
UNCTAD-ASYCUDA based standards, (ii) have a
useful life of at least two years, (iii) be technologically
up to date, and, for computers, (iv) include the
installation of office software.
In addition, at border crossings, this equipment would
benefit all state agencies.
2.Telecommunic-  3.1. Install Local and Wide  700,000   Includes (i) a feasibility study on the
ations            Area Networks at Customs            telecommunications solution to be adopted, (ii) the
sites                               installation of Local and Wide Area Networks at
appropriate Customs sites, including Customs houses
and main border crossings, according to the number of
computers in each location, and (iii) the computerized
connection of remote locations to HQ. At border
crossings the LAN must consider border control



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
locations.
The feasibility study should envisage different data
transfer protocols, including the ability to transmit
voice or image messages.
Characteristics of the LAN to be according to current
standards, i.e. to include racks, patch panel, routers, and
hubs connecting in a star topology over TCP/IP
protocol).
The WAN must establish connections, taking into
account the telecommunications company capabilities.
Where not possible to install dedicated lines between
each point, it must evaluate ISDN technology. The
speed of the line must be at least 64 KBPS.
Additionally, it would establish TCP/IP addresses
according to international standard.
3. ICIS personnel 3.1. Regional experience  50,000   Will enable organization of half-yearly seminars to
training         sharing program                     share regional experience in implementing the reform
and technical solutions. Each TTFSE country will host
one seminar.
Total without contingencies               1,650,000
D.    Improvement of Roads and Border Crossing Facilities (IDA and GOA financed)
Total cost with contingencies: US$8.3 million
Component         Subcomponent   Investment Detil
(US$)
1. Qafe-Thane   1.1. Repair of the  600,000  Repair of the damaged administration building including
Border Station  damaged existing             installation of a plumbing and heating system, roofing, and
station                      installation of plexi-glass enclosures.
Repair of the substation building, storehouse, service halls and
utility tunnel. Site drainage and water supply.
1.2. Design and     140,000  Pre-design survey, design and supervision.
_____ ____ ____ supervision
Sub-total 1                         740,000
2. Morina       2.1 Rehabilitation   1,100,000  Rehabilitation of the existing Customs house (to be shared with
border station   and extension of            the border police), including electrical work. Erection of a
the existing station         canopy over the road.
Widening of the road to three lanes each way, establishment of
parking lots and a secondary inspection area.
Construction of a building for Customs brokers and a warehouse
for seized goods. Site drainage.
2.2. Design and     150,000
supervision
Sub-total 2                       1,250,000



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
3. Equipment   3.1. Fork lifts     400,000  Provision of four 10-ton fork lifts for four border stations.
for border     3.2. Weighing        50,000  5 mobile weighing equipment to be operated at various inland
stations       bridges                      and border locations.
4. Equipment   4.1 .Vehicles       360,000  Twelve vehicles for Customs mobile teams
for mobile
teams
5. Design &    5.1. bridge and      30,000  Design for completion of two new bridges on Librazhd - Qafe
preparation of  road testing &              Thane road section, Corridor 8, review of design for Lezhe
tender docs for  design & quantities        connection
road works     5.2 Production of     6,000
Tender Docs.
Sub-total 5                         36,000
6. Supervision   6.1. Tender         8,000  Assistance to GRD/PIU during tender evaluation and contract
of road works   Assistance                  award.
and tender     6.2 Supervision of    190,000  Supervision of road works in Lezhe connection, completion of
assistance     Works                        Fushe Kruje - Mamurras road section, and completion of two
new bridges on Librazhd - Qafe Thane section.
Sub-total 6                        198,000
7. Road works   7.1 Lezhe         1,130,000  Rehabilitation of a 2.3 km connection between Miloti-Lezhe road
Connection                  and Lezhe town (access to secondary road)
7.2.Fushe Kruje-   800,000  Completion of on-going works (interchange, river banks
Mamurras road               protection, ancillary works)
7.3. Librazhd -    900,000  Completion of two new bridges on Trans-European Corridor No.
Qafe Thane bridges          8 (East-West): Qafe Thane km. 23
Sub-total 6                      2,830,000
Total without contingencies      5,864,000
E. Program and Project Implementation (IDA, USA and GOA)
Total with contingencies: US$0.6 million
PIT operating   Operating costs    200,000   (i) PIT/PIU staff salaries; (ii) FMS; (iii) office equipment and
costs                                       materials for PIT operation
PIT training    Training          40,000
Assistance to    Consultants     150,000   PIT staff training
PIT                                         Procurement consulting
RSC secretariat Consulting       105,000   Secretary funded by the US.
services          (USA) 
Auditors        Consulting        50,000    Under the existing arrangements for the Albania Country Portfolio
services                    audit (for the first two years) by Deloitte & Touche
Total without contingencies      545,000



Annex 3
Page I of 2
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Estimated Proiect Costs
Trade and Transport Facilitation in SE Europe                                 %     % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                           (US$ Million)    Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Customs Services Procedures Reform
Monitoring and Review of Procedures                -       0.7      0.7      100        6
Training                                         0.0       0.0      0.0       70
Subtotal Customs Services Procedures Reform        0.0       0.7      0.7       99        7
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice and Equipment                  0.1       0.3      0.4       85        4
Training                                         0.0       0.0      0.0       85
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development            0.1       0.3      0.4       85        4
C. Support to ICIS
ICIS Hardware                                    0.3       0.8      1.1       71        10
ICIS Telecommunication                           0.2       0.6      0.8       75        8
ICIS Personnel Training                          0.0       0.0      0.1       70
Subtotal Support to ICIS                           0.5       1.4      2.0       73       19
D. Improvement of Roads and Border Facilities
Qafe Thane border improvements                   0.4       0.4      0.7       50        7
Morina border improvements                       0.7       0.7      1.3       50        13
Border crossings equipment                       0.2       0.8      1.0       83        9
Fushe Kruje-Mamurrasi Road                       0.5       0.5      1.0       50         9
Lezhe Connection                                 0.7       0.7      1.4       50        13
Librazdh-Qafe Thane Bridges                      0.5       0.5      1.1       50        10
Design and Supervision of Works                  0.1       0.4      0.5       85         5
Subtotal Improvement of Roads and Border Facilil    3.0     4.0       6.9       57       66
E. Program and Project Implementation
RSC & Auditors                                   0.0       0.1      0.2       89        2
PIT operating costs                              0.3       0.2      0.4       38        4
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation        0.3       0.3      0.6       53        5
Total BASELINE COSTS                               3.8       6.7     10.6       64      100
Physical Contingencies                           0.4       0.6      1.0       62        9
Price Contingencies                              0.4       0.3      0.8       42        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                4.6       7.6     12.3       62      116
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Coneoeents by Finaunciers                                                                                                                 Local
IDA              GOA          Otkers Donors         Total         For.   (FxcL  Duties &
Amg t   %        Amout   %         Amout   %         Amout   f          Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
A. Customs Services Procedures Refhrm
Monitoring and Review of Procedures                                                               0.7     100      0.7        6      0.7        -        -
Trainig                                                                  -        -       -      0.0      100      0.0        0      0.0      0.0
Subtotal Customs Serkices Procedures Reform                                -        -       -      0.8     100       0.8       6      0.7    0D
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice and Equipment                               0.0        -      0.0              0.4      100      0.4        4      0.4      0.1
SubtotalTrade FacilitationDevelopment                           OD         -     0D        *      OA      100       O4        4      OA       0.1
C. Supeort to ICIS
ICIS Hardware                                                 1.0      83       0.2      17                        1.2    10.2       0.9     0.2       0.2
[CIS Telecommunication                                        0.3      83       0.2      17                 -      1.0        8      0.7      01       0.2
ICIS PersonnelTrawing                                         0.1      100                                  -      0.1        1      0.0      00
SubtotalSupr rtbolCIS                                           19     83.8      OA        16        -        -      23       19       1.6     03        OA
D. iurwmentofRoads and Borier Facilities                          -
Qafe Thane border improvements                                0.6      65       0.3      35                        0.9      6.9      0.4      0.3      01
Morinaborderimprovements                                      1.0      65       0.5      35        -        -      1.6      13       0.8     05        0.3
Border crossings equipment                                    0.9      83       0.2      17        -        -      1.1       9       0.9       -       0.2
FusheKnye-MamurrasiRoad                                       07       65       04       35        -        -      1.1        9      0.6      0.4      0.2
Lezhe Connection                                              1.1       65      0.6      35        -        -      1.6       13      0.2      0.6      03
Librazdh-Qafe Thane Bridges                                   0.8      65       0.5      35        -        -      13        11      0.6      0.4      0.2
DesignandSupernisionofWorks                                   0.6     100       0.0      _         -        -      0.6       5       0.5     0.1         -
SubtDtalLinprementofRoadsandBorderFacilities                    5.7    70.1      24        30        -          -    82       67      4,6      24        13
E. Program and Project bIplementatin
RSC & Auditors                                                0,1      31       0,0       6      0.1       63      0.2       2       0.2     0.0       0.0
PIT operating costs                                           0.4      95       0.0       5        -        -      0.1       4       0.2      0.3
SubtotalPrnrgmandPrnjectImplementation                          05     76A       0.0        6      0.1      I8       0.6       5      0.3      03        0.0
TotalDisbusement                                                8.1      66      29        23      13        11     123      100      7.6      3D0       16
Note: The percentages of IDA financing are calculated against the total project cost, including contingencies,
taxes and duties when applicable



Annex 4
Page I of 6
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Total Proiect Investment
Table 4.1. Summary Economic Benefit from the Project
COSTS            BENEFITS   |
FY      |_____                                |_   Net Benefits
(in US$ million)  (in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
2001                      0,8               0.1               -0.7
2002                      3.0               1.7               -1.3
2003                      4.1              1I9                -2.2
2004                      1.6               2.6                1.0
2005                                        2.1                2.1
2006                                        2.2                2.2
2007                                        1.7                1.7
2008                                        1.7                1.7
2009                                        1.7                1.7
2010                                        1.8                1.8
2011                                        1.8                1.8
2012                                        2.0                2.0
2013                                        1.9                1.9
2014                                        2.0                2.0
2015                                        2.1                2.1
2016                                        2.1                2.1
2017                                        2.1                2.1
Total                      9.5             31.4               21.8
Internal Rate of Return                                     33%
iDiscount Rate                     |      12%
INPV g 12%    [                 7.11             12.31              5.3
The Principles of the Economic Evaluation
The border crossings and road improvements proposed under this project were selected on the basis of: (i)
traffic; (ii) geographical location (on intemational routes); (iii) current waiting time; and (iv) need for roads
upgrading given other on-going projects. These border crossings were designed to ensure efficient and
transparent border operations. The analysis was built in coordination with local parties (Gl)(' and (iRD)
reviewing alternative remedial measures.
The economic cost-benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project over the
implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. Detailed calculations on costs
and benefits are shown in Table 4.1. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 2000 prices. All
investment costs are net of import duties and of either taxes or subsidies.



Anaex-4-Table 42
Ee,onuc Cost-Beefit Analysis                            A lani
(Millinrt of USS in 2000 prices)
IT                                                          2601       2602      2003       2604      265       2006       2W07      2000       2609      2010       2011      2612       2613       2014      2615
Costs
Investment Costs
InstitationalStrer themnng                          0.2      02        02        02
Trade Facilitation Development                      0.1       0.1       a l        01
Impmovement of ICIS                                 0.1       0 8       0.8        0.1
Improvernent of Roads/Border Crossings              0.4       1.9       3.0        1 2
Total Incrensental Costs                              _.8                  3.0       4.1        1.6       0.6        6.        6.0       0.         6.0 a0.              0.0        0.e       0.6        e.0        0.0
1conomie Bekefits
1. Transport Cost Reduction (with psject)
Borler Crossirgs                                    0.0       0.2       0.9        1.3       1.4        1.4       1.5        1.5       1.6        1.6       1.6        1.7       1.7        1.8        1.9
RoadImprovemnents                                   0.0       10        00         0.6       0.6        0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7        0.7       0.8        0.9       0.8        0.8        0.9
Pilot Irand Tenmiral                               0.0        0.3       0.7        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.1       1.1        1.1       1.2        1.2       1.3        1.3        1.3
Total                                               0.1       1.4        1.6       2.9       3.0        3.1       3.3       33         3.4       3.5        3.6        3.8       3.8        3.9        4.0
2. Impart of Rodueed Tranport Costs on Trlde
Trade Benefits fom Transport Cost Reductiorn       0.02       0.3       0.3        0.6       0.6        0.6       0.7       0.7        0.7       0.7        0.7       0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8
3. Transport Cost Reduction (without project)                                                  -0.9      -1.5       -1.5      -2.2      -2.3       -2.3      -2.4       -235       -26       -2.6       -2.7      -2.8
Total Benefits  om Prjoect                                      0 1        1.7       191        2.6       211        2.2       1.7       1.7        1.7        1.8       1.8       2.0        1.9        2.0        2.1
Net Benefits fion Project                                      -0.7       -1.3      -2.2        1.0       21        2.2        1.7       1.7        1 7       1.8        1.8       20         1.9        2.0        21
o X
O-



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
Costs
The project cost considered for the economic evaluation amounts to US$9.5 million excluding taxes and
including physical and price contingencies. It includes the following components: (i) Customs
Administration Institutional Reform; (ii) Trade Facilitation Development Measures; (iii) Customs
Information System; and (iv) Border Crossing Facility and Road Improvements. It does not take into account
the cost of the program and project implementation.
Benefits - With Project Scenario
Three benefits have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border
crossings and inland terminals; (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project; (iii)
transport savings linked to the road components. Some time savings will accrue as well to passenger traffic
at the crossings. This element was not included in the analysis.
Trade and Transport Costs Reduction. The annual savings on transport costs at Albanian border crossings
and the inland terminal under the project would progressively reach about US$2.3 million in 2005. Delays at
border crossings and inland terminals are symptomatic of a number of issues associated with deficiencies in
trade related services: procedural complexity, cumbersome documentation requirements, systematic checks,
slow customs clearance steps, scarce and unreliable information technology and telecommunications,
absence of standard service times and inadequate infrastructure.
Assumptions. The progressive reduction of border crossing time18 to forty minutes for incoming traffic has
been used as the basis in the economic evaluation of the project. The pilot border crossings, the border
crossings where physical improvements would take place and the pilot inland terminal would progressively
meet this objective by 2003. The establishment of computer and telecommunication networks at the main 25
customs offices would lead to an estimated time saving of 25 minutes for the other trucks entering the
country. The average waiting time for trucks in the "do nothing" altemative is the mid-estimate as reported
by customs users and officials. The average value of time for trucks was obtained through interviews
(US$340/day). Traffic will be impacted by five broad parameters that are difficult to forecast accurately: (i)
the recovery of Albania and Kosovo; (ii) the re-routing of traffic through Corridor 8; (iii) the evolution in
donor financed assistance; and (iv) the resurgence of trade in the vicinity of the border. Overall traffic growth
was assumed at 3 percent under the category "trade and transport cost reduction", compared to current
traffic.
In order to realize the economic benefit from the waiting time reduction, both the physical investments and
the customs reform are jointly required because the customs reform alone can not completely reduce the
waiting time. For example, the implementation of new procedures requires additional lanes to allow for
traffic segregation, appropriate space covered by canopies for secondary inspection19, proper communication
capacity with limited interruption (LAN, WAN, phone, fax). The project will specifically address these
border posts where infrastructure or equipment bottlenecks exist. The information equipment will
significantly impact operations at inland terminals and border crossings by: (i) improving sound decision
making; (ii) ensuring selectivity and targeting; (iii) giving access to intelligence information. This impact
will be monitored over the life of the project.
Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The impact on trade under the project comes from: (i) reduction in
waiting time at border crossing points; and (ii) increased reliability in the delivery of goods. In a competitive
market, these two elements will be reflected in the price of traded goods, and stimulate trade. The increased
Is From entering the border area in one country to exiting the border area in the next country.
'9 Selectivity means not only that not all trucks are inspected, but that those inspected are subject to a far more detailed
inspection than today.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
reliability of international delivery times will facilitate the integration of local companies into international
production chains.
In the medium run (from 2003) these two elements should enable a significant increase in trade volumes.
20
Such trade gains are obtained by combining trade creation and trade-substitution effects . Imports would be
the most affected initially, since the border inefficiencies bear mostly on imports. However the regional
nature of the project would simultaneously impact exports. Increased import volumes would benefit local
consumers (inclusive of local companies relying on foreign inputs for their production) by increasing their
consumer surplus and would create a loss for some local manufacturers, whose products become replaced by
new imports. Increased export volume would benefit local producers by opening new market opportunities
and would reduce local consumer surplus by reducing the quantity available on the local market at the initial
price.
The broad economic impact of cheaper international transport is complex to analyze even in countries with
valid statistical data and requires general equilibrium models taking into account the monetary/foreign
exchange impacts of new trade patterns. Given the current level and quality of data available on the six
Balkan countries, such a detailed evaluation would not be realistic. The outcome of various studies21 on this
phenomenon shows these additional benefits ranging between 20 and 30 percent over the transport savings
generated. For the purpose of this evaluation, 20 percent was considered as the most appropriate.
Road Component. Lezhe Connection. A new North South road was built under the previous National Road
Project but was left unconnected to the old road network due to a shortage of funds. The two-kilometers
connection would enable to use this road and reap the expected benefits of the new road, namely a reduction
in distance and the diversion of traffic out of an urban area. Traffic would be able to avoid the farm access
track (estimated IRI>12, significant pot-holing) that offers currently the only access. The estimated traffic of
2000 vehicles a day includes a strong proportion of heavy vehicles (about 15 percent). The economic rate of
return for this section was estimated at 49 percent and the net present value at US$2.4 million.
Librazdh-Qafe Thane Bridges. The main road to fYR Macedonia, a Trans-European Corridor, goes across
mountains and has two uncompleted bridges. The bridge construction, included under a prior IDA financed
project, was interrupted due to a shortage of financing. As a result an estimated 2200 vehicles per day
(including 300 trucks) are required to use alternative routes. These alternative routes have no retaining wall
and their narrow bridges (five meter wide) are in poor condition due to the absence of maintenance. In the
short run (by 2002), if these alternative routes were maintained in use, the road and bridge would require
substantial maintenance to stay in operations (maintenance and repair estimated at US$420,000 in 2002 and
US$70,000 in 2007). Traffic would no longer be able to pass through this place during the repair of the
alternative road creating significant additional cost for vehicles. Using the alternative routes also extends
slightly the length of the trip. The completion of the two bridges on the Corridor 8 would enable to avoid
these unnecessary costs and to complete the upgrading of Corridor 8. Without considering significant safety
and comfort gains, the estimated net present value would reach US$ 0.1 million.
Fushe Kruje Road Section. The project would finance mostly road safety items including guard rails, vertical
and horizontal marking, as well as an interchange for the new road. No quantitative economic evaluation was
carried out for this component.
20 The trade creation effect is the increased demand in the importing country for a commodity from an exporting country,
resulting from the price decrease associated with the elimination or reduction of distortions. Trade substitution accounts for
the tendency of importers to substitute goods from one source to another in response to a change in the import price of
supplies from one source.
21 Notably " The welfare implications of transport improvements in the presence of market failure", Anthony Venables,
London School of Economics and Michael Gasiorek, School of European Studies.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
Benefits - Without Project Scenario
If the project were not taking place, reform efforts would continue to be implemented and would receive
outside support in the near future. The differential between the with or without project scenarios in terms of
costs includes only the project costs as described above. The external support would enable the Customs
services to partly achieve the objectives of this project on a delayed schedule. The benefits associated with
"the without project" scenario were subtracted from the benefits in the "with project scenario" to obtain the
project benefits. It was estimated that, without the project, 30 percent of annual with project benefits would
be achieved from 2004, 50 percent from 2005 and 70 percent onward. The absence of needed infrastructure
without IDA financing would impose a limit to the efficiency that could be achieved.
Sensitivity Analysis on EIRR
Table 4.3 presents the various assumptions tested and their influence on the economic internal rate of
return of the project. The internal rate-of-return for the project is fairly robust as shown by the low
switching values. In all cases tested, the projected rate-of-return remains above the opportunity cost
of capital.
Table 4.3. Sensitivity Analysis
% Change in Parameter
U_i_de__20__  |  Downside -20%
Modified Parameters                 EIRR            EIRR
Daily Truck Value (USS)             40%             25%
Trade Related Savings               34%             30%
Traffic Volume                      44%             22%
[Investment cost (-)                 32%             32
|Investment cost (-) and Traffic Volume  44%         22%
Table 4.4. Switching Values (for IRR @  12 percent)
Daily Truck Value (US$/day)               102
Trade related benefits coeff.              <0
Traffic volume/existing traffic          55%
Minimum Time Savings
at pilot sites (in minutes)            40



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Albania Goods Trade Outlook (1999)
TRADE INDICATORS
1995    1996    1997    1998        1999                         Trade trend,USD million
i.000
Exports (FOB) in US$ min     204.9   243.7   158.6   208.0   275.1           goo
Imports (FOB) in US$ mln    679.7   922.0   693.6   811.7    937.9           600
Trade Balance              (474.9)  (678.3)  (535.0)  (603.7)  (662.8)        400      Li
Growth Exports (in %)         45%      19%    -35%      31%      32%          200
Growth Imports (in %)         13%     36%    -25%       17%      16%           o
Total Trade of Goods         884.5  1,165.7   852.2  1,019.7  1,213.0
Growth Trade volume           19%     32%    -27%       20%      19%
Real GDP in US$ billion       2.0      2.6      2.3      3.0      3.6              __
Exports as % ofGDP            10%       9%      7%       7%       8%
Imports as % of GDP           34%     35%      30%      27%      26%
Trade balance as % ofGDP      24%     26%      23%      20%      18%                1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Trade as % of GDP             44%     45%      37%      33%      34%          11Ep1,1E-Go d,FOB Cl p..-G-d.F0B
TRADE STRUCTURE
Main 1999 exports fob, USD min (total 275.1)
Textile&footwear60%; Mineral products 6.4%; Base metals 5.3%     1999 Principal Exports            1999 Principal Imports
Foodstuffs, beverages & tobacco 4.6%; Vegetable products 4.5%     (total USD 275 min)               (total USD 938 min)
Main 1999 imports cif, USD min (total 937.9)
Textile & footwear 16.3%; Vegetable products 11.5%;                  /                                          A
Machinery & electrical equipment 11.4%;                               66%                                      21%        B
Footstuffs, beverage & tobacco 9.1%;                                                                                     9%
Mineral products 8.6%                                                                        D
23%          D 
59%
A - Minerals aa,Sfyjls6%
t - Food, be-erages and tabicn  A - Food B - Fuel and energy
TRADE DIRECTIONS                                                  C-Mant.cts.ee,                C-Capitalgoods D-Others
Exports (%)      Imports (%)          D- Others
1992    1999    1992    1999
Italy                         13.6    66.9    23.8    37.6
Greece                         8.5    14.4      6.7    28.2
Germany                        7.3      5.5     5.1      5.5      Main 1999 export partners         Main 1999 import partners
Austria                        n.a.     2.1     n.a.     n.a.
Turkey                        n.a.     n.a.     3.3      5.5
Macedonia                     n.a.      1.5     n.a.     n.a.                      Italy                    Italy
Bulgaria                       n.a.    n.a.     n.a.     2.8                      67%                                        -e
MAIN BORDER CROSSINGS, 1998                                   Others
% of total export         t0%     a\
G.                    ~~~~~~~others
Durres                         61                                                                 24%
Kapshtice                      17                                    AMS      GreecG y Trey
Vlore                          10                                     2%                                              5%
Girokaster                      6
Rinas                           4
Albania's foreigh trade represents about 34% of its GDP. It has suffered from civil disturbaces starting from 1991 when exports was
almost halved. Although there was some recovery, foreigh trade was considerably disrupted in 1997 when both exports and imports
plunged by about 30%. Imports is expected to expand as Albania becomes more integrated into the world market. There is also potential
for export revival as Albania has a comparative advantage in its unit labor costs. The main export commodity group is manufacturing,
which contributed 66% to total export receipts in 1999, followed with much smaller shares by minerals and foodstuff. By far the largest
trade partner is Italy, whose exports share in 1999 increased almost five times, and imports share - by more than 60%, compared to 1992.
Greece, the second largest trade partner also considerably increased its imports and exports to Albania. Food, machinery, and fuel, the
main imported goods, represented 21 %, 11 %  and 9% of total 1999 imports.



Annex 5
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Financial Summary
Project Components Cost and Financing Plan
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingen
(US$ Million)
2001   2002   2003   2004   Total
A. Customs Services Procedures Reform
Monitoring and Review of Procedures                   0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2   0.7
Training                                              0.0    0.0        -      -    0.0
Subtotal Customs Services Procedures Reform             0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2   0.8
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice and Equipment                       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4
Training                                              0.0    0.0    0.0        -    0.0
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                 0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4
C. Support to ICIS
ICIS Hardware                                                 0.6    0.6            1.2
ICIS Telecommunication                                0.1    0.4    0.4    0.1    1.0
ICIS Personnel Training                                                      0.1   0.1
Subtotal Support to ICIS                                0.1    1.0    1.0    0.2   2.3
D. Improvement of Roads and Border Facilities
Qafe Thane border improvements                                0.3    0.6            0.9
Morina border improvements                              -    0.5    1.1        -    1.6
Border crossings equipment                            0.5    0.3    0.3        -    1.1
Fushe Kruje-Mamurrasi Road                              -    0.4    0.4    0.4   1.1
Lezhe Connection                                        -    0.5    0.5    0.6    1.6
Librazdh-Qafe Thane Bridges                             -    0.4    0.4    0.5    1.3
Design and Supervision of Works                       0.1    0.1    0.3    0.1    0.6
Subtotal Improvement of Roads and Border Facilities     0.6    2.4    3.7    1.5   8.2
E. Program and Project Implementation
RSC & Auditors                                       0.04    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.2
PIT operating costs                                   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1   0.5
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation             0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2   0.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     1.1    3.9    5.2    2.1   12.3
Project Financing                                     2001   2002   2003   2004  Total
IDA                                                   0.6    2.6    3.6    1.3   8.1
Government                                            0.2    0.9    1.3    0.5   2.9
USA                                                   0.3    0.4    0.3    0.3    1.3
Total Project Financing                                 1.1    3.9    5.2    2.1   12.3



Annex 6
Page I of 16
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all contracts wholly or partly financed by IDA:
General. Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly or partly
financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in January 1999. Standard
documents published by the World Bank will be used by the PIT for the preparation of bidding documents
and request for consultant's proposals.
Procurement of Works. Civil work contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000 will be procured
under Intemational Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB). As per the Procurement Plan, all works
contracts will be procured through ICB.
Procurement of Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods valued at US$100,000 or more will be
procured under ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 will be procured through IS. The IS
will be based on comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers from two eligible source
countries in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Office equipment for the PIT, estimated to cost less than
US$ 30,000 will be financed from the incremental operating costs and will be included in an annual
budget to be agreed upon with IDA. Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or less can also be procured
directly from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO)22.
Prior and post review by IDA for Goods and Works contracts: All IDA financed goods and works
contracts under ICB will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with IDA Guidelines. All
other contracts will be subject to post review.
Procurement of Consulting Services: Recruitment of consulting finns for the supervision of works will
be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. For financial audits (after the second year of project life - see page 3) the Least Cost
Selection (LCS) method will apply. Consultants for design of the works and for ICIS personnel and other
training will be selected based on qualifications. Consulting services to the PIT (international
procurement consultant, design for bridges and roads testing) and the Telecom Study will be procured
according to Section V of the Consultants Guidelines for individual consultants. Costs associated with
training for the PIT staff will be financed from the consulting services category and payments will be on
the basis of documentary evidence. PIT staff and FMS establishment will be covered under the
incremental operating costs.
Prior and post Review by IDA for consultants' contracts: All consultant contracts awarded through
competition and expected to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract with firms and $50,000
or more per contract with individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other competitively
awarded contracts under these thresholds not subject to prior review will be subject to post review. All
contracts not awarded through competition and all Terms of Reference (TOR) will be subject to prior
review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions: The MOF and IDA
have agreed on the procurement plan (Table B2) at appraisal; to be finalized during negotiations. This
timetable will be used as a basis for monitoring of procurement processing. In particular, the following
22 An agency of the United Nations Development Programme



Annex 6
Page 2 of 16
advance procurement actions have been identified and are hereby proposed to the MOF as critical
milestones so that main contracts can be signed soon after Credit effectiveness: (a) the General
Procurement Notice will be published on October 16, 2000 in UN Development Business; (b) submit
draft Specific Procurement Notice for the construction works and provision of goods by November 30,
2000; and (c) submit Terms of Reference, short lists, Letter of Invitation (LOI), and draft model contract
for consulting services by November 30, 2000. All notices to be published in the UN Development
Business should be submitted to IDA at least 45 days prior to publication.
A Project Preparation Facility advance (PPF) of US$100,000 has been made available to GOA to finance
establishment of the PIT, including the PIT staff, financial management system, office equipment, a
vehicle, as well as a procurement consultant. All PIT staff and office equipment will be financed from the
category of incremental operating costs, and short term consultants to assist the PIT will be financed from
the category of the consulting services.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment has been undertaken in July/August 2000, by the IDA procurement
specialist, and the overall risk assessment has been established as high. All procurement will be managed
by the PIT. Discussions were held with the Director of the existing PIU of the Albania Roads Project,
and the Procurement units of the GDC, who would be assisting the TTFSE Project Implementation Team
(PIT) in the preparation of technical specifications and bidding documents for the Roads and the Customs
components respectively. The Project Manager reports directly to the Minister of Finance. For more
details regarding the procurement implementation arrangements of the project, please refer to the capacity
assessment report. The proposed Action Plan to strengthen procurement capacity is included in Table D
of this annex.
Disbursement
Disbursement: Disbursements against the categories described in Table 6.C will be made upon receipt
by IDA of fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US $0.5 million for
works, US $100,000 for goods, US $100,000 for consulting firms and US $50,000 for individual
consultants, as well as operating costs which will be made against certified statements of expenditures
(SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower and made available to IDA
during supervision.  The minimum  size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of
commitments from the IDA credit account would be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized
Allocation to the Special Account.
Special account: To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a Special Account in
its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA to cover the IDA's share of expenditures.
The Authorized Allocation will be US$800,000, representing about four months of average expenditures
made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the
Special Account will be limited to an aggregate of US$400,000. However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of US$1.6 million, the initial allocation may be
increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$800,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account may be submitted monthly or when
one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment will follow the standard IDA procedure as described in the Disbursement Handbook,
Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower
will accompany all replenishment requests.
Project Accounting and Financial Management: A financial management system (FMS) including
accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing, and proper internal control systems will be
established prior to effectiveness. The FMS has met the minimum IDA financial management
requirements (4-B LACI Certificate) prior to Board presentation. IDA has reviewed the FMS in MOF,
and has prepared a report identifying weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system
and enable the development of appropriate project management reports with a view to the possible
transition to PMR-based disbursements. IDA has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps
necessary for: (i) credit effectiveness and (ii) further strengthening of procedures and staff development



Annex 6
Page 3 of 16
during implementation. The FMS will be compatible with OP/BP 10.02 and with the Project Financial
Management Manual, published by IDA. The development of the FMS will be monitored by IDA before
effectiveness, during the first supervision mission and throughout project implementation.
The PIT has been staffed with an accountant acceptable to IDA. The company installing the FMS has
assisted the PIT in establishing and maintaining project accounts adequate to provide information
regarding project resources and expenditures.
Accounting and auditing. An independent auditor acceptable to IDA should conduct an annual audit of
the project's accounts in accordance with Intemational Standards of Auditing issued by the International
Federation of Accountants and IDA guidelines. The financial audit for the first two years will be
undertaken by the auditor selected by the Borrower, and acceptable to IDA, following an arrangement
between GOA and the Southeast Europe Country Management Unit of IDA. A multi-year contract to
carry out the audits of the entire Country Portfolio (except the projects involving revenue entities) was
awarded to Deloitte & Touche in year 2000. Certified copies of these audits would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. The PIT will also maintain all
documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound
accounting practices. A management letter giving an opinion on internal audit controls should be
submitted to IDA six months after effectiveness of the credit.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Trade and Transport Facilitation in SE Europe
Procurement Arrangements             International
Competitive
Bidding      Other   N.B.F.  Total
A. Civil Works                                6.5          -       -    6.5
(4.2)         -           (4.2)
B. Equipment & Goods                          3.0        0.3       -    3.3
(2.5)      (0.3)          (2.8)
C. Consultant Services & Engineering            -        0.8    1.3    2.1
(0.8)     -   (0.8)
D. Training                                     -        0.1    0.0    0.1
(0.1)     -   (0.1)
E. Operating costs                              -        0.2       -    0.2
(0.2)      -   (0.2)
Total                                         9.4         1.5    1.3   12.3
(6.7)      (1.4)      -   (8.1)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
All amounts are inclusive of contingencies and taxes
Note:   - Due to rounding, amounts may be slightly different from those in other tables.
- Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
- The PPF advance of US$ 100,000 is included under "C" (US$50,000) and "E" (US$50,000)
- Auditors (US$ 0.05 million), Consultants to PIT (US$0. 15 million) and training to PIT (US$0.04 million)
are categorized under the "Consultant Services and Engineering".
- N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed (financed by the US Government)
- Details of "Other" and "N.B.F." are found in the Table 6-A l.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 16
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                          Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                  (including
Expenditure Category                                                                 contingencies)
QCBILS       QBS      SFB      LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.
________ IC/(*)
A. Firms              0.455                        0.05    0.230              1.3        2.035
B. Individuals                                                       0.21                0.21
Total   0.455                       0.05    0.230    0.21       1.3        2.2
Note: QCBS =        Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS =         Quality-based Selection
SFB          Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS =         Least-Cost Selection
CQ            Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other =       Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines)
N.B.F. =     Not Bank-financed.
(*) =         Includes travel, per diem, registration and other costs associated
with training of PIT staff



Annex 6, Table B1: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section 1: Procurement Review                                    __ __                             _________._UC
Element (Goods/Works)       ICB                NCB               IS                NS              Other methods
1. Procurement method       $500,000 (all     N/A                Goods <100,000    N.A.            No objection on an annual budget
thresholds                   works are ICB).                                                       for operating costs
$100,000 (goods)
2. Prior Review              All ICB           N/A               N.A.              N.A.            N.A.
Element (Consultant Services)  QCBS / LCS/CQ    Section V                                          Other methods
3. Procurement method        100,000
thresholds_
4. Prior Review            >>$100,000          >$50,000     X                      _ L
5. Ex-post Review           IDA will monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record keeping during periodic
supervision missions. 20% of contracts will be ex-post reviewed.
Section 2.  pty ofthe Impleeting Ageny i  rcrementand Technical_0 M1 sfistanc Vrequirements i
6. The Government of Albania has several years of experience in implementing IDA projects. Procurement of works, goods and services has been
satisfactory. Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the Project Implementation Team located
in Minist of Finance.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy  |8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the
Paper status: CPAR is being completed.                                   first year ready by negotiations? No
Sectio3n 3 Trai     o ation andelomet onPr ocurementi;"i.
9. Estimated date of     i 0. Date of General        1 1. Indicate if contracts are subject  12. Domestic  13. Domestic Preference for
Project Launch Workshop:  Procurement Notice update:  to mandatory SPN in Development  Preference for    Works: Yes
February 2001            September 30, 2000         Business:     Yes                Goods: Yes
14. Retroactive financing   No                                         l 15. Advanced Procurement (PPF)     Yes
16. The PIT within the MOF will oversee all procurement activities under the project and will ensure procurement is done in accordance with World
Bank procedures. The PIU of the ongoing Roads Project and the procurement unit of the Customs department will assist the PIT in procurement
matters relating to the roads and customs components of the project respectively. PIT will submit Procurement reports to IDA quarterly. PIT
procurement staff will be assisted by an international procurement consultants.
17 Procurement Staff as part of Project T'eam:  Els Hinderdael       Division: ECSIN             Ext. 33306
18 Role of the Field Office in Procurement: Field Office will liaise between HQ team and PIT on procurement issues.
>t
-OD 



Annex 6, Table B2: Procurement Plan
.2.            3.          4.          S.       6.Es!iatcddam
.   DesipU. 1.   TyPO       Nao Of      Tili.   P                P   uni       Bid Doatmns                       Bid                                coott -        Cntr0et
-.Conatmt         CoSt   Mdhod                          F;D -i2tk                                                            Sigoloug:       Ceanplction
UJSS in
ICIS basic        G          3          1.0   ICB               N/A           Draft to Bank: September, 2001    1. Invitation: December, 2001      March, 2002    Septeniber,
equipment                                                                     Bank No Obj: November, 2001       2. Opening: February, 2002                         2002
3. Eval. & Recom: March, 2002
ICIS auxiliary     G           3         021    IS                N/A           Draft to Bank: October, 2001      1 Invitation: January, 2002        April, 2002    October,
equipment for Data                                                                Bank No Obj: December, 2001       2. Opening. March, 2002                            2002
Center and Customs                                                                                                   3 Eval. & Recom: April, 2002
sites
Telecom (LAN,       (           1         0.98    ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank July, 2001          1. Invitation: September, 2001     February.,     July, 2002
WAN)                                                                         Bank No Obj: September, 2001      2. Opening. November, 2001         2002
3. Eval. & Recom: Januar, 2002
Telecom. study     CS           I         0.02    IC              N/A           DraftlTOR to Bank: Oct., 2000      1 Invite CV's: November, 2000     January, 2001   April, 2001
Bank No Obj: November, 2000       2. Eval. & Recom: December, 2001
ICIS Personnel     CS          I          0 1    CQ               N/A           Draft TOR to Bank: Sept., 2003     I. Invitation: October, 2003      April, 2004     June,2004
training       (TR)                                                          Bank No Obj: October, 2003        2. Eval. & Recom:. March, 2004
Border Repair:     CW          2          2.5    ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: September, 2001     1. Invitation: November, 2001     March, 2002    June,2003
Bank No Obj: November, 2001       2. Opening: January, 2002
3. Eval. & Recom: February, 2002
Qafe-Thane bordcr              Lot 1        0.9
repair
Morina border                Lot 2        1.6
rehabilitation
Borders design     CS          1          0.07    CQ              N/A           Draft TOR to Bank: Nov., 2000      1. Invitation: December, 2000     February,       May, 2001
Bank No Obj. December, 2000       2. Eval. & Recom: February, 2001  2001
Borders Supervision    CS        t          0.20    QCBS            N/A            Expression of Interest:June, 2001  1. Invitation: October, 2001     April, 2002     June 30,
Draft TOR/shortlist to Bank: August  2. Opening: December, 2001                     2003
1,2001                           3. Eval. & Recom  February, 2002
_________  _______                                                               Bank No Obi: Septembcr,2001
Border stations     G          1          0.55    ICB             N/A           Draft to Bank: February, 2002      1. Invitation: April, 2002        October, 2002   April , 2003
equipment                                                                     Bank No Obj: April, 2002           2. Opening: July, 2002
3. Eva!. & Recomi September, 2002
Equipment for      G           1         0.45    ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: January, 2001      1. Invitation: April, 2001         July, 2001      December,
mobile tcams                                                                    Bank No Obj: March, 2001          2. Opening: June, 2001                            2001
3. Eval. & Recom: AugusL 2001
Weighing bridges     G          1          0.09    IS              N/A           Draft to Bank: April 1, 2002       1. Invitation: May 15, 2002       July, 2002      January,
BankNoObj: May IS,2002            2. Opening: June, 2002                            2002
_  _ CW         3          4.0_ICB                 N/A            Draft to Bank:          . .       3. Eval. & Recom: July, 2002
Roads and bridges:    CW         3          40    ICB               N/A           DrafttoBank: May, 200 11 Irnvitation: July, 2001                    October, 2001    March, 2003
Milot-Lezhe                 Lot 1        1.6                                   Bank No Obj: July, 2001           2. Opening: September, 2001
connect.,                                                                                                       3. Eval. & Recom: October, 2001
Fushe Rruje -                Lot 2        1.1
Mamurras,
Librazhd - Qafe               Lot 3        1.3
Thane
Design for roads    CS          1         0.06    CQ               N/A           Draft TOR to Bank: October, 2000    1. Invitation: December, 2000    February,      April, 2001       t
works                                                                       Bank No Obj: November, 2000        2. Opening: January, 2001         2001                             n >
3. Eval. & Recom: February, 2001                                   a,
a~O



Spn. forroadslcivil    CS     s            0.275    ICBS             N/A            Expressionof Interest: January, 2000   1. Invitation: une, 2001        October,2001   March,2003
works                                                                          Draft to Bank: March, 2001         2. Opening: July, 2001
Bank No Obi: May, 2001             3. Eval. & Recom: September, 2001
Auditors         CS           I         0.05    LCS               N/A           Draft to Bank: November, 2000       1. Invitation: January, 2001        May, 2001       June 30,
Bank No Obj: December, 2000        2. Opening: February, 2001                          2004
3. EvaL & Recomer20Alrblr2200
-PITincrema ntal.    N/A       several       0.2    NIA               N/A           DraopTOR to Bank: July, 2000       N/ Invaie         Apnl,2000          Augustl,        June30
operating costs                                                                    Bank No Obj. : July, 2000          2. Eval & Recom: July 1, 2000       2000            2004
(staff, offoce cquip,
FMS, vehicle)
-PIT consultants    CS        several      0.15    IC               N/A            Draft TOR's to Bank: October, 2000   1. Invitation: November, 2000
Bank No Obj: November, 2000        2. sval. & Recom: December, 2000    December        December
2000/Decemb   2000/Decem
er 2001         ber 2001
PIT training      CS        several       0.04    ()N/A                           Proposal to Bank: Sept/Dec, 2000    NIA
( I R)                                                          Bank No Obi: Sept lec. 2-0                                             Nov,1, 2000    laur 2000
GPN to be issued October 16, 2000; next GPN update: October, 2001; Source: UJN Development Busincss
CW= Civil Works, G= Goods, CS= Consulting Services, QCBS= Quality and Cost Based Selection, IS= International Shopping, IC= Individual Consultant s;
(*)   travel, per diem, registration and other costs associated with training of PIT staff
eQ
0'
q



Annex 6
Page 8 of 16
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Swted AUocatimi
Dk                                        ~~~~~~~~~~Of QuKit Proem
($ Mlliaa)                                      Qui                11shuamt
AnuiRt 
1. CvilW    s                               3.8                65%/o
2 Eqimpt, Gxds andldials                    25          10ou/offiadg 1OO/oe
fIciy arld 83D/of dir
local efitues
3. CdttrgSevcesa   TIirIi                   0.8                100%Y
4. huwu" Op-airg Ccsts                      02                 9%/O
t. RiectpwicnAdv                            0.1               100lV
tllocaed                                            0.7
Totid



Annex 6, Table D: Summary of findings and actions of the capacity assessment of the PIT
Albania - Trade and Transportation Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project
Procurement Capacity Assessment Summary of Findings and Actions
Assessment                                              Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                  Satis-      Major Weaknesses                                            Actions           Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory                                 Low       Ave.       High          Proposed         Completion
_______                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Date
(a) Legal Aspects
(i) Laws &                               X                                                      x
Regulations
(ii) NCB Procedures              XUse Banks Sample
NCB document
(iii) Internal codes and                                                                                           Draft Code of Ethics     Before
manuals              X                                                                                 X         for the PIT staff   Effectiveness
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.               .__
(i) General handling                     X
(ii) Procurement                                          The newly created PIT                                     The Procurement
planning                                              will follow the                                           Plan for the Project
X                                Procurement Plan agreed               X                    was agreed with        Done
at Negotiations and                                          Borrower at
._______________________  _ _____  included  in the  PAD..                                 Negotiations
(iii) Preparation of                                                                                                Select international
documents                                                The new PIT lacks                                         procurement
experience in Bank                                      specialist with
Procurement Guidelines                                  adequate experience
X                                   and procedures and                            X        in Bank-financed     Before Board
preparation of bidding                                 procurement and use     Approval
documents, evaluation                                  of Bank's SBD23 and
system, etc.                                         sample bidding
.___________ ____________   ___ __   _ __ __ __ __ _   __  docum ents
2> S
23 Standard Bidding Documents



Assessment                                            Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                Satis-      Major Weaknesses                                          Actions          Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory                               Low      Ave.       High         Proposed         Completion
Date
(iv) Management of                                                                                              Same as above. In    Appointment
process                                                                                                       addition, Proc         of
Workshop for PIT    international
and other       proc. expert
beneficiaries i.e.   and local
GRD and Customs    procurement
No experience of working                                                    officer before
x                                  with international                          X          Department           Board
contractors.                                       assisting PIT in  Approval and
preparation of    Procurement
technical specs and  Workshop
BDs for their      Before the
respec       ~~Project
respectivebecomes
components.        Effective
(v) Bid evaluation                                                                                                                  Appointment
Appointment of a    Apoinmn
Bank experienced    intemational
international Proc  Proc Expert
expert and local   and a local
See comments above. No                                procurement officer,   Proc officer,
X                               experience in evaluationnc                              Training of PIT's    before Board
of Bids in accordance                        X        local procurement   Approand
with rules of the Bank                                 officer and b      Approval and
Director by       Workshop
international proc    before Project
expert and Proc      becomes
workshop          effective.
(vi) Contract award     X                                                                              X         Same as above      Same as above
(vii)Preparation and                                                                                               See above          See above
signing of          X                                 See comments above                            X           comments          comments
contracts
(viii) Contract                                             New PIT; lacks                                                          See comments
management          X                                 experience in Bank's                          X         Same as above     against earlier
procurement procedures                                                        items.a   r
______ ________   and contract admin.                                                             itms
______________ ~CD
(c) Organization and
Functions                                                                    __



Assessment                                                  Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                     Satis-       Major Weaknesses                                                Actions            Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory                                     Low       Ave.        High           Proposed           Completion
______ _____ _____ _____ ____ I             I _  _ _ _                                                                                           D ate
(i) Organization of                                                                                                        PIT to speed up the    Before Board
unit and functions    X                                    The PIT is not yet fully                           X          appointment of         approval.
staffed..                                           Procurement experts   FM specialist
-and FM specialist.        hired
(ii) Internal manuals                                           There are no internal                                          A standard        Before Project
and instructions      x                                  manuals to be followed by                            X        operational manual       becomes
staff.                                             be prepared for use      Effective
_______________________   ._______                                                                    of  PIT     staffE
(d) Support and Control
Systemse
(i) Auditing                                                  The Project procurement                                      Interational Audit
X                                   will be subject to annual               x                   company to be hired     May 2001
audits by intemational                                     for TTFSE Project
_______________________                            ~~~~~~auditing   com panies..   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _    _  _ _ _  _ _
(ii) Legal assistance                      X                                                          X
(iii) Technical and
administrative                         X                                                          X
controls
(iv) Code of ethics                                                                                                        New  PMU to draft
X  X   Bank's NO   Before Board
(v) Anticorruptiont                                                                                                        Careful reviews of
initiatives                                                                                                            bidding documents,
evaluation reports    On continuing
and            bssdrn
x                                                                                      X         recommendations        bas ise during
for contract awards,   the life of the
and four monthly        project.
procurement
supervision
(e) Record keeping                                                                                                              The new PIT will
(e) Record keeping                                                                              have to follow Bank
X                                                                          X                      guidelines and
standards.                           _ >
(i) Public notices                                                                                                           Same as above          o_     _
(ii) Bidding                                                                                                                See comments as                            x
documents             _                                                                                                      above                                 c



Assessment                                               Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                  Satis-       Major Weaknesses                                             Actions           Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory                                  Low       Ave.       High          Proposed          Completion
______   ._____   _________                                    _________   _________                            D ate
(iii) Bid opening                                                                                                       Same as above
information
(iv) Bid evaluation                                                                                                     Same as above
reports
(v) Formal appeals                                                                                                      Same as above
and outcomes
(vi) Signed contract                                                                                                    Same as above
documents           _______
(vii)Claims and
dispute resolution                                                                                                  Same as above
records
(viii) Comprehensive                                                                                                    Same as above
disbursement data
(f) Staffing                                                                                                              Recruitment of an
international    Proc Specialist
procurement            and
x                                   PIT is not yet fully                           X        specialist and local   procurement
staffed.                                         procurement officer   officer before
Board
Approval.
_) >
o x
_ o



Assessment                                                 Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                    Satis-      Major Weaknesses                                               Actions            Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory                                    Low       Ave.        High          Proposed           Completion
.________                              Date
(g) General Procurement                                                                                                                                 The
Environment                                                                                                                                     Government
has already
been apprised
Numerous violations of                                                            of the broad
the existing Procurement                                   These larger issues   findings of the
Law; lack of transparency                                    ar  lndt  e          Bank's CPAR
in procurement process;                                    aressed                mission of
collusion among suppliers                          Xdth.e    through    January 2000.
x                  ~~~~~and contractors; lack of                                 tepost-CPAR          The CPAR is
monitoring controls;                                       discussions and     being finalized
corruption; poor                                          Bank's anti-,        and will be
performance of local                                     corruption initiatives   submitted to
contractors; cost overruns                                                         GOA  with
Bank's
recommendati
ons in this
._________________________ .______ ________________________                                                                                      regard.
(i) Promoting a
culture of                    X                                                                             X          Same as above      Same as above
accountability
(ii) Reputation of                                                                                                          Procurement
procurement corps                                                                                                    profession needs to     These are
be recognized as a    larger issues
specialized field and    affecting the
a Code of Ethics       cti se
established. The      and wsll be
X                                                                                      salaries levels for    andrwilleb
X       Procurement staff to   throughpst-
be equated with     thouhpost
technical experts     discussions
and the procurement        with
staff to be properly  Government    -
trained and certified    .
on the basis of a fair   i 200
process. abv_am _sabv__
(iii) Salary structure  x                   ~Salary level s are lower                           X          Same as above       Same as above -
(iii) Salary structure  X                    ~~~~~~than in the private sector 



Assessment                                               Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                  Satis-       Major Weaknesses                                             Actions           Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory                                  Low       Ave.       High          Proposed          Completion
_________  _______________________                                     ~~ ~~~Date
(iv) Freedom from                                                                                                     The Bank needs to
political                                                                                                        seriously pursue this    There have
interference                                                                                                       issue with the       been some
The reports indicate                                          GOA on a          dismissals of
widespread political                                       continuing basis.     ministers on
X                        corruption specially in                           X        The results of anti-    corruption
regard to procurement                                     corruption measures     charges,
decisions                                                      should be        including the
continuously       head of the
monitored by the        PPA.
Bank.
(v) Existence of                                             Because of low salary
experienced and                                        levels in the public sector
capable staff                                              the experienced                                          See comments          Same as
X                procurement staff move to                         X         against item (iii)   against item
the private sector which                                       above.           (iii) above
offers almost double the
salary of the public tor
(vi) Clear written                                                                                                     A code of ethics
standards and                                                                                                         should be
delegation of                                                                                                     established for the
authority                                              There are no clear written                                 procurement staff
standards although the                                   but the salary level   Same as above
delegation of authority is                                  of the qualified
somewhat clearer                                       procurement staff
should be equated to
the salaries offered
by the private sector
(vii)Sound
budget/financial                                       Budget allocations are not                                  The issue will be
systems                                                 released on time which                                    addressed through       Same as
X                           makes procurement                              X           post-CPAR          against item
planning unrealistic and                                   discussions with     (ii) above     X
often leads to direct                                         GOA
contracting                                                                               _>___
(h) Private Sector
Assessment



Assessment                                               Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                  Satis-      Major Weaknesses                                             Actions           Proposed
Null   Poor   Fair   factory                                 Low       Ave.       High           Proposed         Completion
I                                            _  _                           .                                   Date
(i) General efficiency                                     Generally, private sector
and predictability                                       purchasing activity is
conducted in cash to
avoid tax liability. Most                                Use of Commercial
of the private firms are                                practices and NCB
X                             young and lack                               X       for goods in Bank      All future
management or                                         financed projects      projects.
administrative procedures.                                  should not be
The construction                                          accepted
industry's performance is
poor due to financial
constraints
ii Transparency                  X                                         ___                              X          Same as above      Same as above
(iii) Quality of contract                X                                                       X
mgmt.                                     ____._.__
(iv) General reputation                                                                                                 Procurement
seminars for
Business and
Contractors; careful   During the life
X                                                                          X           reviews of        oftepjc,
Borrower's       of the project.
procurement
decisions by Bank
_______ .__________________________________.________________                                        staff.
-v CS



Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                                                  Overall Risk Assessment
Goods All ICB, + IS packages                                                                                         High     X
Works All ICB                                                                                                     Average
Consulting US$ 100,000 (equivalent) for firms and 50,000 for individuals - RFPs, shortlists and draft contracts +    Low
All TORs.+ Consultants qualifications.                                                                                        _
Post Review Ratio: One in  5   contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special        Form prepared by:
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)                                                     Jagdish Jassal, ECSCS       X32145
Signature:
Date: August 14, 2000
Comments: See summary of findings and Actions. Issues to be addressed immediately are (i) hiring of an international procurement specialist experienced in World Bank
procurement procedures and a local procurement officer (ii) Procurement workshop with focus on procurement training for PIT staff, including the Director, and for the
procurement units of Customs Department as well as the PIU staff of the Bank-financed Roads Project.
>
CD
ox
O\O o



Annex 7
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Proiect Processine Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10 months
First Bank mission (identification)             02/08/1999           02/08/1999
Negotiations                                    09/18/2000           09/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   02/01/2001
Prepared by: MOF, GDC, GRD, and IDA Team
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Graham Smith                              Program Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu                           Task Team Leader
Michel Zamowiecki                         Senior Customs Specialist
Gerald Ollivier                           Transport Specialist
Ahmed Mohammed Jehani                     Sr. Counsel
Rohit Mehta                               Sr. Disbursement Officer
Els Hinderdael                            Procurement Specialist
Sandro Michiei                            Financial Management Specialist
Pedro Taborga                             Senior Economist
Ryo Eguchi                                Project Officer
Artan Guxho                               Projects Officer
Kenneth Gwilliam                          Principal Transport Economist (Peer Reviewer)
James Walsh                               IMF (Peer Reviewer)
Magdalena Kusemileva                      Program Assistant
Dammika Somasundaram                      Program Assistant
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Philip Moeller                            Environment Specialist
Ivan Taborsky                             US Customs



Annex 8
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Edrope Project
Documents in the Proiect File *
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments:
* Management Information System: FYROM-Bosnia and Herzegovina-Albania
* Trade Facilitation Component - Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, fYR Macedonia,
Romania
*  Customs Institutional Reform: fYR Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Albania
* Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project
* Technical selection of border crossings
* PCD.
* Stakeholders Survey.
C. Other:
* Albanian Customs Service Three Years Strategic Plan
- Albanian Customs Service Operational Plan for Year 2000
* Minutes and Recommendations of Quality Evaluation Review (QER) and self-QER
- EU MIS/ICIS assistance programs in Albania, fYR Macedonia, Romania
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Statements of Loans and Credit
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of August 31, 2000
(In US Dollars Millions
Active Projects                                                                                   Difference Between
Expected and Actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           Disbursements'
Project ID  Project Name                Fiscal Year     IBRD       IDA      Cancel.    Undisb.  Orig.           Frm Rev'd
P051309    COMMUNITY WORKS              1999            0          14       0           6.1       0.7           0
P040818    DURRES PORT                  1998            0          17       0           14.6      10.3          0
P008260    DURRES WATER SUPPLY   1994                   0          11.6     0            1.6      1.1           0
P069120    EDUC REF                    2000             0          12       0            11.7     0             0
P068853    EMG ROAD REPAIR              2000            0          13.6     0            12.5     -0.5          0
P069079    FIN SEC IBTA                 2000            0          6.5      0           6.5       0.3           0
P008271    FORESTRY                     1996            0          8        0           4.5       2.9           0
P045312    HEALTHRECOVERY               1998            0          17       0            15.3     8.5           0
P008253    HEALTH SERVS REHAB           1995            0          12.4     0           0.6       1.2           0
P043178    IRRIG & DRAIN II             1999            0          24       0           20.2      0             0
P040975    LAND DEV                     1998            0          10       0           9.2       4.7           0
P057182    LEG/JUD REF                  2000            0          9        0           8.6       0.2           0
P051310    MICROCREDIT                  1999            0          12       0            10.5     0.2           0
P036060    NATL ROADS                   1996            0          25       0           9.4       8.5           0
P034491    POWER TRNSM & DIST           1996            0          29.5     0            17.5     20.4          0
P051602    PRIV IND REC                 1998            0          10.3     0           6         6.2
P069939    PUB ADM REF                 2000             0          8.5      0           8.3       0.1           0
P054384    RCVRY PROG TA                1998            0          5        0            1.5      1             0
P008267    RURAL ROADS                  1995            0          15       0           0.7       1.7           -5.9
P055160    SAC                          1999            0          45       0           25.1      24.9          0
P066491    WS URG REHAB                 2000            0          10       0           9.6       0             0
Result                                  Result          0          310.4    0           200.1    92.5           -91.6
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 8/31/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                      Disbursed
FY Approval   Company             Loan        Equity      Quasi       Partic      Loan         Equity      Quasi   Partic
1998 AAP                          0        28.5           0           0            0        8.29        0       0
2000 NCBank                       0         2.25          0            0           0           0        0       0
1999 SEF Eurotech               1.2           0           0           0          1.2           0        0       0
1999 SEF FEFAD Bank               0         1.93          0           0            0        0.98        0       0
Total Portfolio:                 1.2       32.68           0           0          1.2       9.27        0        0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan        Equity      Quasi       Partic
1998 Patos Marinza            30.00        0.00         0.00       50.00



Annex 10
Page I of 4
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
OVERVIEW
The review of the original project components during the Environmental and Social Consultation meeting
of January 25, 1999 indicated that the project was unlikely to have significant adverse environmental
impacts. The project was accordingly confirmed as category B. During the course of project preparation,
road and bridge rehabilitation works, representing the completion of on-going or carried over works from
two previous Bank/IDA projects (Cr. 2499-AL; Cr. 28880-AL) and the upgrading of an existing
alignment were identified for inclusion in the project. These works were considered to be consistent with
this same classification.  To prevent, minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, this
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared.  Additional information concerning
mitigation actions is included in the permits and licenses for the works under this project. No civil works
would start on the roads and bridges sub-component without the issuance of permits, which according to
the Albanian law require the review of National Environmental Agency (NEA). The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU)24 within the Ministry of Transport will be responsible for verifying that such
permits have been issued. The contractor will notify the PIT of any mitigation measures identified during
the permitting process.
MINIMIZATION OF NEGATIVE IMPACT
The major concerns about possible negative site specific impacts associated with border crossings relate
to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of disinfectants and spills of
oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site disruptions caused by upgrades or
relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings, parking/waiting areas, and access roads.
The objective of the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project to reduce
constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the simplification of paperwork and reduction of
processing times, will correspondingly reduce standing time and vehicle emissions from trucks and other
vehicles. Processed and road side waste and garbage will also be reduced and better managed. The small
scale of physical investment, largely limited to the improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited
potential threat. Specific actions included in the EMP (See Exhibit 1) to minimize any potentially
negative impact and promote institutional development include:
*  Liaison with Environmental Authorities
*  Training and Sensitization
*  Site Certification
*  Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
*  Provisions in Construction Contracts
The major concerns about possible negative site specific impact associated with road and bridge
rehabilitation works relate to (i) site disruptions during the rehabilitation phase; (ii) contamination to the
water table, water-ways, or adjacent areas resulting from improper applications of asphaltic materials; (iii)
inappropriate quarrying operations for gravel and fill materials; (iv) improper provision for drainage and
control of erosion; and (v) and negative impact on nearby settlements from noise and dust during
24 The Roads PIU main staff will be supported in conjunction with TTFSE costs until the completion of the road and bridge
works incorporated in the TTFSE.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
Construction. In the case of the on-going or carry-over works, mitigation plans were presented in
conjunction with their original identification and scope of work under the previous projects (Cr. 2499-AL;
Cr. 28880-AL) and the issuance of site permits.
Although the Environmental Impact Assessment prepared for the Milot-Lezhe Road included the
Connection now proposed under this project, no application was made for a construction permit for this
segment.  The issuance of a permit from the National Environmental Agency and the Territory
Adjustment committee in the Ministry of Public Works will require a review of the mitigation plan for the
Connection. Disbursement of funds for civil works under this component will occur only if this permit
has been obtained. The Connection is seen as having particular importance in reducing the time and costs
of users traveling between the two upgraded roads leading to Lezha. It reinforces the economic return of
adjacent road works already undertaken, in part supported by IDA. The existing alignment will be used,
but the road will be widened to readily accommodate two all-weather lanes of traffic. No private owners
will be affected by the 0.2 to 0.3 hectares of additional land to be expropriated for the widening. All costs
for mitigation actions and expropriations have been included in the project, under the respective sub-
components to be co-financed by IDA and the Government.
Construction practices for these works will follow the same requirements agreed to under the Credits
2499-AL and 28880-AL, and will be in conformance with existing environmental regulations. The same
guidelines to be used for contracting the border crossing components will apply also to the road and
bridge works. In view of the time lag since these works were first prepared, the PIU of the General Road
Directorate will review the existing documentation with the National Environmental Agency (NEA). The
environmental officer designated by GDC will assist this process (see below).
During the life of the project the NEA will carry out periodic inspections to ensure compliance with the
mitigation plans attached to the construction permits, and to ensure compliance with national regulations
and legislation.  Discussions were held with the representatives of the NEA relative to these
responsibilities, to confirm their ability to provide the services referenced in the EMP. The monitoring
will be carried out by officers in the local offices of the NEA. The NEA will ensure that these offices are
adequately staffed to carried out these responsibilities. Representatives of the civic sector, including
individuals and organizations, as well as municipalities and other institutions of local government are to
be included in the consultation, evaluation, assessment and monitoring process carried out by the NEA.
This EMP, as agreed to at negotiations, will also be provided to the NEA for public disclosure. ).
Confirmation on public notification of the EMP would be provided to IDA before Board presentation, in
conjunction with the notification of approval of Minutes of Negotiations.
Liaison with Environmental Authorities and Special Institutional Arrangements
Contacts between the GDC of the Ministry of Finance (GDC/MOF) and the NEA need to be regularized.
This will be achieved through the establishment of an environmental officer in the GDC/MOF, who will
be responsible for liaison, monitoring and reporting. Following the completion of the TTFSE, this
position should be regularized in order to ensure sustainable environmental policies on behalf of the
GDC. Environmental issues will be included in the public information program to be provided by the
GDC/MOF.
Monitoring the implementation of environmentally sound construction practices and procedure in
conformance with the existing or upgraded mitigation plans for the road and bridge works will be the
responsibility of the PIU for the GRD. The PIU will report the results of the monitoring process to the
PIT of the TTFSE project, which ultimately retains all responsibility for project implementation.
Training and Sensitization
The TTFSE environmental officer in conjunction with the NEA will advise the training consultant in the
design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the GDC and other control agencies



Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
relating to the importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures and guidelines
based on the national environmental regulations will be developed. In coordination with the appropriate
outside ministries and agencies such specialized training as veterinary inspection will be designed.
Site Certification
In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all stations, the
environmental officer jointly with a representative of the NEA will inspect broad crossings where
investment is being made under the TTFSE Project. On the basis of satisfactory compliance with
regulations and procedures a letter of certification of compliance will be issued. Particular attention will
be given to assure correction procedures relating to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and
chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste materials including hazardous
materials and garbage. The experience gained from this approach would be suggested for incorporation
in national policy for the environmental inspection of all border crossing points.
Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular attention will be
given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental officer will consult with the NEA to
ensure progressive application of appropriate standards. Progress in this area will be regularly reported to
the PIT and included in reports to IDA.
The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions and
agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant would be the regulations included in such
agreements as (i) the European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) Convention on the International Carriage of
Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September
1970 and (iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and
their Disposal of May 1992.
Provisions in Construction Contracts
As required by the national environmental regulations, environmental assessments will be prepared to
examine the potential negative environmental impact and mitigation measures for any new major
construction projects. Acceptance and clearance of payment by the PIT would be dependent upon the
presentation of such details and presentation of associated environmental clearances and certification of
conformance with mitigation plans for the particular work. All contracts would contain clauses requiring
the minimization of noise, dust, and waste disposal during construction.



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Summary of the EMIP
Liaison with           The GDC designated an environmental officer who PIT will be responsible
Environmental          for: (i) liaison with environmental officials of the NEA; (ii) the review and
Authorities            monitoring of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP); (iii) the
provision of periodic status reports by the PIT; (iv) consultations with such
interested parties as NGOs; and (iv) the provision of support for supervision
missions. The Borrower will assure that the environmental officer has
access to information relevant to the project and environmental compliance.
Training and            The GDC in conjunction with environmental officials of the NEA
Sensitization          will provide training and sensitization of GDC and other agency
control staff at border crossings.  Standard procedures will be
specified.  Special training will be offered to assist Veterinary
inspection.
Certification of       The NEA jointly with the environmental officer of the GDC in consultation
Acceptable Practice at    with the NEA  will inspect border crossing for certification of the
Border Crossings       acceptability of practices and minimization of environmental impact at all
stations where investment is being made under the TTFSE Project.
Particular attention will be given to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting
materials and chemicals at the disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste
materials including hazardous materials and garbage.
Harmonization          One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
of Standards           international standards. The environmental officer will consult with the
Ministry of Environment periodically on progress and provide progress
reports to the PIT. The environmental officer will ensure compliance with
evolving regulatory requirements and conventions.
Construction           -Designs and permits for new construction or remodeling or rehabilitation
of border crossing points will include plans for the minimization of negative
impacts; similar plans will be followed for the road and bridge works.
-No civil works would start on the roads and bridges sub-component
without the issuance of permits.
-Mitigation actions identified in the licensing process will be provided to
the PIT and maintained in the project files.
-Contract documents for all works will contain clauses requiring
minimization of noise, dust, and waste disposal during construction.
-All works will comply with local environmental regulations.
-All works will be done following environmentally sound construction
standards and procedures.
-Certification and monitoring of compliance with details mitigation plans
provided as the basis or construction permits will be the responsibility of
the NEA; the respective environmental officers for the customs/roads
components will assist as appropriate with this review and report any issues
or concerns periodically to the PIT.



Annex I I
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
European Union Support Proeram to Customs Reform - National Proiram 2000
(4.OM EURO)
Activities           Description of Proposed Activities relevant to the Project
1. Continuation of  Will provide assistance to the GDC in coordination with Phare Multi-Country
Customs Assistance   and Cross Border programs, in compliance with the Albanian Customs
Mission to Albania    Strategic Plan for 2000, with special emphasis in the following areas:
(CAM-A)              (a) at senior management level to ensure that the change already introduced is
(1 .95M EURO)        secure and self-sustaining; and
(b) for the implementation and management of change in (i) personnel
management, and (ii) Customs regional structure by extending the
modernization of the Operations and Investigations Directorate (mobile
enforcement teams) at Customs houses and border sites.
2. Computerization of Includes the implementation of ASYCUDA on a national basis. It will require
the Albania Customs   provision of support in both Customs and information technology areas,
Service              including inputs from UJNCTAD, the developers of the software package. The
(1.95M EURO)         assistance will consist of (i) contracting of technical support (UNCTAD);
procurement of hardware/software; and (iii) training.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
General Directorate of Customs
Summary of the Three Year Strateeic Plan
This plan is a strategic document, setting out clearly the Mission Statement, Mission Goals and Key Aims, and
Strategic Objectives of the Albanian Customs Service as well as defining what the Government, business
community, international community, and public can expect from the Customs Service. This document is being
supported by an Operational Plan for Customs Service for year 2000, and together they form the "Overall Business
Strategy for Modernization of the Albanian Customs Service".
CUSTOMS MISSION STATEMENT, MISSIONS GOALS AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES TO LONG-
TERM MODERNIZATION OF ALBANIAN CUSTOMS SERVICE
1.    Albanian Customs Mission Statement
Albanian Customs is a public institution, which represents and protects the fiscal, economic and social
interests of the republic of Albania. Its main purpose is to collect and protect the state revenues for which it
is responsible, and protect society by preventing illicit traffic in prohibited and restricted goods. In
performing this Mission, the Albanian customs Service will respect the rule of law, and rights and freedoms
of individuals; it will apply customs legislation correctly and consistently and observe international
agreements and conventions; it will seek to facilitate the rapid movement of legitirnate traffic and trade; and
it will be impartial, honest and transparent in its dealing with the public.
2.    Goals
1.   To maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of state revenue collection.
2.   To maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of enforcement of prohibitions and restrictions in the
import, export and transit of:
-   Narcotic Drugs
-    Firearms and weapons and ammunition
-    Endangered species of fauna and flora
-    Cultural artifacts
*    Pornographic and other material of an offensive nature
3.   To observe the conditions of national and international legislation, and the requirements of the national
and international conventions, protocols and agreements.
4.   To strike a proper balance between effective Customs controls and the facilitation of the legitimate
trade, traffic and passengers, at the frontier and inland.
5.   To deal with all members of the public in a fair, impartial, honest, trustworthy, polite and professional
manner.
6.   To manage the organization in a way which makes its activities as open and transparent as possible to
all legitimate interested parties.
7.   To maximize the use of the organization's human and physical resources.
3.    Strategic Objectives
I .   Continuous improvement of the Customs legal base, in particular, implementing legislation
(second/third level regulations).
2.  Introduction of the risk assessment and selectivity (RAS) techniques into customs control and
investigation operations.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
3.  Introduction of an integrated information and intelligence system, compatible with EU standards, as a
tool to improve customs controls and investigation.
4.  Introduction of a computerized customs declaration processing system and systems for management
information.
5.  Improvement of work effectiveness through improvement of organization, structures and working
methods at Headquarters and in regional/local offices.
6.   Continuous improvement of professional performance of Customs personnel.
7.  Involvement of as many customs staff as possible in the process of change, increasing their awareness
of its effects and persuading them of the advantages of change.
8.   Continuous development of inter-agency cooperation within the country, and inter-departmental
cooperation and communication within the Customs Administration.
9.   Continuous development of mutual understanding and cooperation with foreign Customs
Administrations and international organizations.
10. Increasing the level of services and information on Customs and fiscal legislation provided to
economic operators and the public
11. Promotion and support of Customs infrastructure development projects, aiming at facilitation of
legitimate passengers and movement of goods.



Annex 13
Page I of 2
Albania at a glance                                                               8/23/00
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central   middle- .
Albania      Asia  income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        3A       475      2.094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    870      2,150     1,200
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       3.1     1;022     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99                                                                       T
Population (%)                                         1.0       0.1       1.1
Labor force (S)                                        1.7       0.6       1,2     GNP            J                Gross
per      -                     primary
Most recernt estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             capita          v            enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population ('Y Of total population)              41        67        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)               25        22        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              8          8        1 5              Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      76          .       86
illiteracy (% Of population age 15+)                   16          3        16
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)      107        100      114            Albania
Male                                                106       101       114         -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              108        99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                                    2.3        31        3.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                        31.7       16.0      16.8
Exports of goods and services/GOP                     17.9       9.2      11.4                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           28.9       -.7       -1.7
Gross national savings/GDP                                       9,9      13.8                       .
Current account balance/GDP                     .     -2.4     4-1        -.0      Domestic 
interest payments/GDP                                            0.7       0.1                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  26.8      25.1     Savings
Total debt servioe/exports                                       4.7      1'9
Present value of debt/GDP                                       20.1
Present value of debttexiports                                  77, 
Indebtedness
1979499  1969-9      1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.9      1.3      8.0        7.3       7,7        -     Albania
GNP per capita                       ..      3.3      7.3        5.7       6.8         --- Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         .     11.9      -3.5      47,0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP/%)
Agriculture                                    .      32.3      54.4      52.6    300
Industry                                       .     44.8       24.5      26.0    200
Manufacturng                                                  12.0      12.2    1io
Services                                       .      22.9      21.0      21.4      0 
Private consumption                                  62.2       96.5      90.3    -i0n     9          9s     97   98   99
General government consumption                 .       8.8      10.2      11.4              _GDI            :  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    20.7        31.9      29.9                    G
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999    1Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth?)
Agriculture                                   1.7      5.8       5.0       5.0      o -
Industry                                     2.4     -5.0       12.2      10.8    so
Manufacturing                                 .     -8.4       4.2       6.4    40
Services                                      1.3      2.4      11.3       8.9    20             0        9       9
Private consumption                            ..      4.4       9.5       2.1 o
General government consumption                ..    -1.9         4.7      22 3    -20
Gross domestic investment                    0.1      21.3      11.5      14.9    401
Imports of goods and services                   .     12.4       9.3      11.3           -     Exports        Imports
Gross national product                         ..      3.7       8.5       6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          150 T
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       20.7       0.4        .
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..      0.0       24.8       2.5
50
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                  .    48.2        20.3      21.3             94   95   95   97   98   99
Current budget balance                          ..    20.6        -5.2      -3.9             -GDP deflator   -*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -8.6       -10.4    -11.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              11979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USs mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                     379       205       275      1,200
Commodity 1                                                       36               1,000
Commodity 2                                                       30                aoo -
Manufactures                                                     139
Total imports (cif)                                     456       826      1,121      "IO
Food                                                             157  4.tJlJJO
Fuel and energy                                                   69         ..     200
Capital goods                                                     77                20
93  94  00   9 97   9899
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                    .                                                Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsof goodsandservices                      ..      419       282       419 o
Imports of goods and services                   ..      484       977      1,281     -
Resource balance                  4          84-65  -695  -862 -                            I
Net income                                                0        68        61    -15
Net current transfers                            .        ..      440       507    -20
Current account balance                         ..      -56      -187      -294    -25
Financing items (net)                           ..    320         258       373    -30
Changes in net reserves                         ..   -264         -71       -79    _35
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                            382       404
Conversion rate (DEC, localiJS$)                        8.0      150.6    137.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       ComposItion of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..       ..        821      921
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0                       G 3
IDA                                           0         0       220       296
Total debt service                               O        0         37        15                                 B: 296
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0         F 6
IDA                                           0         0         1         2/
Composition of net resource flows                                                                     J
Official grants                               0         0       119       142
Official creditors                            ..        .        79       115
Private creditors                             ..       ..        -3        -2
Foreign direct investment                     0         0        45        51                                    c 80
Portfolio equity                              0         0         0         0                E 203         D 45
World Bank program                                                                  I
Commitments                                    0        0        54       139      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0         0        63        81      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0         0         0         0      C-IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0         0        63        81
Interest payments                             0         0          1        2
Net transfers                                 0         0        62        79
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/23/00






1                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 11
| s H t i . 18 - S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M,,e   \ 
_  '                              2                     ,, AHM  l;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-6
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5''2X 
7 " -'
_-SB-_Prns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ns                                 Rb--,
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  Lu jIRSI/ BCUacS 






IORD 31118
We~~~~~~~~~;
SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
TRADE AND TRANSPORT
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
St  '~~~~~~~~~~ ~(ALBANIA)
MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
IAOO $1400  $1500 $1700  ~~~                                        ~      162 $263IMPORT AND EXPORT PAlTERNS (1 998):
£9909131652S$ M.11S 5)      IMPORTS (US$, Md-r)
.j05 200I
ET-o' , T-               P.s,d asT_oorx
Wi" T-  ~~~~~2l 500
2    1    '            OroopoSflmo-tn/-s 00-654       5 rooff-rH-
$43'20 $72P$90                         4                                                                                   ror-                           /Trrp
¾-Sr                 ------ ~~~~~INTERNTI3ONAL BOUND$ARIES
802 $1500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
$2180 $2100                opntsMAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
12ot                                   GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
40/        Exot.36or                $9/             433/       9/29,2Pa
00/36146/36
192 363 ~   ~          ~          ~         ULARA                *w0/3 
48/4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                                                             r    % 48Cr 0
$1900 $1900  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n  I  ~~~                                ~Epors                                                             ' 
$113                                                                               ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALBANIA  12 9    0 2  9    61 10
I                     tO      r~~fb,BOSNIA &                                                             4.1    0 8    2 5 1200
2000                    .11, $297 ~~~~~~~~~'   ~HERZEGOVINA
ALBANIA C  '-                   >   ,rr->1   A                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BULGARIA  12 3    4 6    5 0 1230
'7                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CROATIA  2084 6    452
FYR MIACEDONIA    3.5    1    19 19
2  $1~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                     ROMANIA          36.2   93 10        30
LI,-                                                                 0/213~~~~~~~0 10  20300 300



