E-317
Annex 10
Albania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan
OVERVIEW
The review of the project components during the Environmental and Social Consultation
meeting of January 25, 1999 indicated that the project is unlikely to have significant
adverse environmental impacts. The project was accordingly confirmed as category B.
To prevent, minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however,
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and a set of mitigatory measures hlave been
prepared. Upon review with the client government it will be signed as an attachment of
tlle PIP.
MI4NIMIZATION OF NEGATIVE IMPACT
The major concerns about possible negative site specific impacts associated with border
crossings relate to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii)
drainage of disinfectants and spills of oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose
garbage; and (iv) site disruptions caused by upgrades or relocations of utilities or such
infrastructure as buildings, parking/waiting areas, and access roads.
The objective of the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE)
P'roject to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the
simplification of paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly
reduce standing time and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed
and road side waste and garbage will also be reduced and better managed. The small
scale of physical investment, largely limited to the improvement of in-place facilities,
offers only limited potential threat. Specific actions included in the EMP (See Exhibit
1) to minimize any potentially negative impact and promote institutional development
include:
"  Liaison with Environmental Authorities
0  Training and Sensitization
* Site Certification
* Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
* Provisions in Construction Contracts
Liaison with Environmental Authorities
Contacts between the Directorate of Customs of the Ministry of Finance (DC/MoF) and
the National Environmental Agency (NEA) need to be regularized. This will be
achieved throughl the establishment of an environmental officer in the DC/MoF, who
wvith the assistance of the NPIU will be responsible for liaison, monitoring and reporting.
As the project progresses the environmental officer should take increased responsibility



for these functions. Eventually the NPIU would serve primarily as a back-up and
provide input for the reporting process. Environmental issues will be included in the
public information program to be provided by the DC/MoF.
Training and Sensitization
The environmental officer in conjunction with the NEA will advise the training
consultant in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the
customs service relating to the importance of environmental issues and protection.
Standard procedures and guidelines based on the national environmental regulations will
be developed. In coordination with the appropriate outside ministries and agencies such
specialized training as veterinary inspection will be designed.
Site Certification
In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all
stations, the environmental officer jointly with a representative of the NEA will inspect
broad crossings.  On the basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and
procedures a letter of certification of compliance will be issued. Particular attention will
be given to assure correction procedures relating to (i) the storage and use of
disinfecting materials and chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting border stations and
(ii) waste materials including hazardous materials and garbage.
Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular
attention will be given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental
officer will consult with the NEA to ensure progressive application of appropriate
standards. Progress in this area will b regularly reported to the NPIU and ilncluded in
reports to the IDA.
The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international
conventions and agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant would be
the regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement concerning
the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with
its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) Convention on the International Carriage of
Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage
(ATP) of September 1970 and (iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal of May 1992.
Provisions in Construction Contracts
As required by the national environmental regulations, environmental assessments will
be prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact and mitigation
measures for any new major construction projects. Acceptance and payment by the
NPIU would be dependent upon the presentation of such details and presentation of



k
associated environmental clearances. All contracts would contain clauses requiring the
minimization of noise and dust during construction.



7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Exhibit 1
Liaison with            The Customs Service will designate an environmental officer who in
Environmental           collaboration with the NPIU will be responsible for: (i) liaison with
Authorities             environmental officials of the National Environmental Agency (NEA); (ii)
the review and monitoring of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP);
(iii) the provision of periodic status reports to the NPIU; (iv) consultations
with such interested parties as NGOs; and (iv) and the provision of support
for supervision  missions.   The government will assure  that the
environmental officer has access to information relevant to the project and
environmental compliance.
Training and            The customs service in conjunction with environmental officials of the
Sensitization           NEA will provide training and sensitization of staff at each border crossing.
Standard procedures will be specified Special training will be offered for
Veterinary inspection.
Certification of        The NEA jointly with the environmental officer of the DC/MoF will inspect
Acceptable Practice at    border crossing for certification of the acceptability of practices and
Border Crossings        minimization of environmental impact at all stations. Particular attention
will be given to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and
chemicals. at the disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste materials
including hazardous materials and garbage.
Harmonization           One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
of Standards            international standards. The environmental officer will consult with the
Ministry of Environment periodically on progress and provide progress
reports to the NPIU. The environmental officer will ensure compliance
with evolving regulatory requirements and conventions.
Construction            -Designs for new construction or remodeling will include plans for the
minimization of negative impacts.
-Contract Documents will contain clauses requiring minimization of noise,
dust, and waste disposal during construction.
-All works will comply with local environmental regulations
[January 2000]



