Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3427 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 29, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3427 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 2000, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Whereas (A) the Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) on February 10, 2000 with other Regional Countries 
(as hereinafter defined) confirming the Regional Countries’ commitment to 
a regional trade and transport facilitation program (the Regional 
Program);
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(C)
to assist in financing the Project and other measures 
included in the Regional Program, the Borrower intends to obtain 
financial assistance from other external sources in an amount of 
$1,300,000 equivalent; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
"Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such 
countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment 
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Customs Reform Strategy" means the strategy satisfactory to 
the Association, adopted by the Borrower, describing the measures to be 
taken during the period of project implementation to strengthen the 
General Directorate of Customs (GDC);
(b)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, satisfactory 
to the Association, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the 
Project;
(c)
"GDC" means the General Directorate of Customs, an agency of 
the Borrower operating under the MOF;
(d)
"GRD" means the General Road Directorate, an agency 
operating under  the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower;
(e)
"ICIS" means the integrated customs information system of 
the GDC to be supported under Part C of the Project;
(f)
"MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(g)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan adopted by the 
Borrower, including the Customs Reform Strategy and an Environmental 
Management Plan setting out measures required for implementation of the 
Project;
(h)
"PIT" means the Project Implementation Team, established 
within the MOF and operating under the Project Manager;
(i) 
"Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator 
designated by the Borrower to be responsible for coordination of the 
activities of agencies of the Borrower, under the Project;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  3
(k)
"Project Manager" means the head of the PIT;
(l)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project Preparation 
Advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an 
exchange of letters dated May 25, 2000 and June 13, 2000 between the 
Borrower and the Association;
(m)
"RSC" means the Regional Steering Committee established by 
the Participating Countries under the MOU for the purpose of overseeing 
implementation of the Regional Program; 
(n)
"Regional Country" means each country participating in the 
Regional Program;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(p)
"Website Coordinator" means the Website Coordinator as 
designated for purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
Page  4
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 
15, 2010 and ending June 15, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on June 15, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, 
environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
Page  5
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter at 
all times maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Page  6
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
MOU shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or 
otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within 
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that 
the PIT has been established with staff (including a Project Manager, 
procurement officer, accountant, administrative and other personnel), 
functions and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
with resources and a financial management system satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Facsimile:
355 42 28494
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Petrit Bushati
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   2,910,000
65%
(2)
Goods
   1,920,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 
83% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
     610,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental Operating
     150,000
90%
Costs
(5)
Refunding of
75,000 Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (2) of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
     535,000
TOTAL
   6,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
operating costs of the PIT incurred on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including office equipment, supplies, 
materials and the cost of establishing the Project financial management 
and reporting system; and
(d)
the term "training" means training activities (other than 
consultants’ services) to be carried out under the Project, including the 
cost of workshops and the travel cost and per diem of the trainees and 
PIT staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i) works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; 
(ii) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(iii) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (iv) contracts for individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) incremental operating costs; and 
(vi) training, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
Page  9
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of 
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
Page  10
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or 
requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Category minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Page  11
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of  
$800,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) the reduction of the 
non-tariff costs of trade and transport at the Borrower’s borders; and 
(b) the reduction of smuggling and corruption at the border crossings of 
the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Customs Services Procedures Reform
Implementation of measures for reform of customs services and 
administration, including inter-agency awareness, through the provisions 
of technical assistance and training.
Part B:
Trade Facilitation Development
Implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, 
training and equipment, of trade facilitation measures, including: (a) 
establishment and updating of a regional website, in support of the 
Regional Program; and (b) implementation of measures to improve 
performance of personnel of shippers, transport operators and other 
agencies involved in trade facilitation.
Part C:
ICIS
Implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, 
training and equipment of measures in support of ICIS, including: (a) 
improvement and upgrading of hardware; (b) provision of technical 
assistance and equipment for communications; and (c) training of ICIS 
personnel through regional program to exchange information with other 
agencies and customs administrations. 
Part D:
Roads and Border Crossing Facilities
(a) Rehabilitation and completion of road and bridge works and 
provision of technical assistance at Lezhe Connection, Fushe 
Kruje-Mamurrassi Road and Librazhd-Qafe Thane Road; (b) improvement and 
upgrading, through construction of facilities and provision of equipment 
and technical assistance, as needed, of the border crossings at 
Qafe-Thane and Morina; and (c) enhancement of processing and 
investigation capacity at customs stations.
Page  12
Part E:
Project and Regional Program Support
Provision of support to the PIT in Project implementation, 
including the provision of incremental operating costs, training and 
consultants’ and auditing services. 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works should be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and 
contracts for goods should be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedure
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  13
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for carrying out of audits under the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for ICIS personnel training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
Page  14
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
 Implementation Responsibilities
1.
The PIT, acting under the Project Manager, shall perform all 
technical responsibilities for Project Implementation, including: (a) 
preparation of annual plan for project implementation; (b) preparation, 
with the assistance of consultants, of bidding and contract documents 
under the Project; (c) the maintenance of the Project financial records 
and accounts and arranging for the audit thereof; (d) preparation of the 
quarterly reports on Project progress, referred to in Part B of this 
Schedule; and (e) supervision of progress of project implementation.
2.
The Borrower shall insure that the PIT shall be maintained until 
the completion of the Project under terms of references and with staff 
and other measures satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure: (a) that each annual plan for Project 
implementation referred to in paragraph (1) above shall be prepared after 
a review between the Borrower and the Association of progress in meeting 
the targets indicated in the PIP, including the targets set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule; and (b) that the inclusion of investments and 
other Project activities in said plan, as well as the procurement 
arrangements thereof, shall be made in agreement between the Borrower and 
the Association, taking into account the requirements set forth in the 
Environmental Management Plan.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain its participation in the RSC; and 
(b) inform the Association of actions taken at the RSC level which may 
affect the implementation of the Regional Program or of measures included 
in the PIP.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure the establishment by the Project 
Coordinator, by March 31, 2001, of mechanisms at all border agencies to 
provide the Website Coordinator with current information to be made 
available to customs users, on waiting times and opening hours at border 
crossing and customs regulations and procedures of border agencies.
B.
Reporting
The Borrower shall ensure: (a) the preparation by the PIT for submission 
to the Association of quarterly reports on the progress of project 
implementation; and (b) the consolidation of said progress reports into 
Page  15
semi-annual progress reports to be furnished to the Association and RSC.
C.
Monitoring
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
included in the PIP, including those set forth in the Annex to this 
schedule, the achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, by October 15 of each year, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 15 of each year, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Annex to SCHEDULE 4
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
take all necessary measures to achieve the following targets:
(a)
The total number of customs declarations which result in a 
physical inspection by the GDC at its pilot inland terminal shall not 
exceed on a monthly basis: (i) 60 per cent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 35 
per cent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 25 per cent by September 30, 
2003.
(b) 
The monthly number of trucks completing import clearance in 
less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland terminal shall exceed: (i) 10 
per cent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 30 per cent by September 30, 2002; 
and (iii) 40 per cent by September 30, 2003.
(c)
The number of trucks opened on a monthly basis at its pilot 
border-crossings of Qafe Thane shall not exceed: (i) 60 per cent by 
September 30, 2001;  (ii) 40 per cent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 20 
per cent by September 30, 2003. 
(d)
The number of containers opened on a monthly basis at its 
pilot border-crossings of Durres shall not exceed: (i) 80 per cent by 
September 30, 2001;  (ii) 50 per cent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 20 
per cent by September 30, 2003. 
