                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 31710

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-34270 PPFI-Q2290)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.6 MILLION

                                          TO

                                       ALBANIA

                                       FOR THE

        TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT




                                    October 12, 2005




Infrastructure Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective March 2005)

           Currency Unit = ALL
                SDR 1.0 = US$ 0.6847
                 US$ 1.0 = ALL 99.1

                 FISCAL YEAR
            January 1    December 31

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL          Adaptable Program Lending
BP           Border Police
BCP          Border Crossing Point
CAM-A        Customs Assistance Mission ­ Albania
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCI          Chamber of Commerce and Industry
CPC          Certificates of Professional Competence
EU           European Union
ECMT         The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
FIATA        Federation of International Forwarding Agents
FMS          Financial Management System
GDC          General Directorate of Customs
GRD          General Roads Directorate
GOA          Government of Albania
ICIS         Integrated Customs Information System
IRU          International Road Transport Union
IT           Information Technology
LAN          Local Area Network
MOAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MECT         Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOE          Ministry of Environment
MPO          Ministry of Public Order
MOTT         Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
PIT          Project Implementation Team
PIU          Project Implementation Unit of the Roads Project
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RAS          Risk Assessment System
RSC          Regional Steering Committee
SEE          Southeast Europe
SECI         Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
TOR          Terms of Reference
TTFSE        Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UN-ECE       United Nations Economic Commission for Europe

 USA                United States of America
 WAN                Wide Area Network




                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
             Country Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
               Sector Director:     Peter D. Thomson, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Artan Guxho, ECSIE

                                           ALBANIA
                Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East Europe Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex Borrower's Evaluation Report                                               32

Project ID: P070078                                                  Project Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South
                                                                     East Europe Project
Team Leader: Artan Guxho                                             TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 13, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East             L/C/TF Number: IDA-34270; PPFI-Q2290
                            Europe Project
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (75%); Roads and highways
                            (25%)
                  Theme: Regional integration (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1999                                     Effective:                           03/20/2001
     Appraisal: 08/21/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 11/02/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/Ministry of Finance / General Directorate of Customs
                                           /General Roads Directorate
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Artan Guxho                                    Anca Dumitrescu
ICR Primary Author:             Artan Guxho; Sati Achath;
                                Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the US$12.30 million project (Credit US$ 8.1 million) were to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs
to trade and transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. The project formed
part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) that aimed
to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control agencies in Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the FYR of Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, and Serbia &
Montenegro. The project was the result of a collaborative effort among the Government of Albania (GOA),
the World Bank, the European Union (EU) and the United States of America (USA).

The objectives were straightforward, clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social
development, and realistic in scale and scope. These objectives were expected to be achieved by: (i)
supporting Customs reform; (ii) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between private
and public parties at regional, national and local levels; (iii) disseminating information and providing
training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and
(v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new customs procedures, information technology,
human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms for
agencies at border crossings. These actions have been common to all TTFSE program countries.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Albania, discussed by
the Board on March 21, 2000 (Document No. IDA/R2000-20), especially in terms of its two priority areas,
namely: (i) governance and institution building through support for reforms in the public administration and
efforts to combat corruption; and (ii) promoting sustainable private sector growth mainly through restoring
macroeconomic stability, reforming the financial sector and privatizing enterprise, and improving
infrastructure. In addition, the project aimed to support the Government's Anticorruption Action Plan
through addressing the on-going restructuring of General Directorate of Customs (GDC), which would help
it to better serve trade activities by: (a) reducing non-tariff transport costs; (b) lowering the price of
imported goods; and (c) improving the competitiveness of Albanian products, thereby promoting private
sector growth and creating new jobs in the country. The project also supported the GDC in strengthening
its tax collection capacity and enforcing several international conventions relating to the environment, while
reinforcing on-going efforts against corruption. The project's financing of the border crossing
infrastructure improvements aimed at a cost-efficient cross-border system with positive impacts in road
transport.

The project design reflected lessons learned from earlier projects in Albania and other countries in the
region. For example, the Transit Facilitation Project in Macedonia highlighted the need to: (i) tailor the
complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of
implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv) maintain
flexibility to ease implementation.

The project envisioned the following social and economic benefits: introduction of streamlined and
transparent Customs procedures would contribute to decreases in trade and transport costs, a more reliable
business environment, and economic growth as a result of lower prices of imports and more competitive
prices/services for exports. These would be translated into: (i) cheaper import goods/inputs for Albanian
consumers and industries; (ii) better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities,
particularly for the trade activities of small and medium enterprises; (iii) more predictable and reliable
economic setting for foreign companies; (iv) improved facilitation for transit traffic; (v) prevention of



                                                      - 2 -

corruption and smuggling opportunities; (vi) improved revenue collection by the GDC, enabling reduction
in tariffs; (vii) uninterrupted services of Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) and better integrity
of data; and (viii) improved alignment with EU standards and procedures.

It has to be noted that the project was demanding because: (i) it required a high level of government
commitment and good coordination among border agencies; (ii) it had a multi ­sector approach, whereby
the MoF through its PIT was responsible for coordinating activities of other government agencies, i.e.
MECT, GDC, and GRD; and (iii) it required coordination with related projects financed by other donors
(EU and US Government).

While the projects under the TTFSE program were tailored to suit the initial conditions and specific needs
of each participating country, the innovative approach used in the program included several common
elements: (i) focusing on border procedural reforms, monitored by clearly defined and standardized
performance indicators at selected pilot sites of each country; (ii) strengthening the partnership in trade and
transport facilitation between the public and private sector, on a country and regional basis; (iii)
establishing a regional website and other mechanisms intended to open access to the private sector to
information on trade and transport; and (iv) supplementing existing institutional mechanisms for improved
communication among border control agencies at local, national, and regional levels. At the same time, in
its definition, the TTFSE program was described as the first phase of an eight to ten year reform process
(see also Section 6 on Sustainability).

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project was more complex in terms of its components, compared to the other TTFSE projects. It was
demanding for both the Borrower and the Bank, because: (i) the Project Implementation Team (PIT), was
established within the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and it had to cooperate with two beneficiary agencies:
the General Roads Directorate (GRD) within the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MOTT)
for the Road Component, and the GDC for the Customs Component; (ii) the implementation required
coordination with numerous stakeholders and donors, including USA and EU; and (iii) there was a low
level of commitment/ownership from the Customs administration due to frequent changes of the Director
General and in management team. In addition, the project (in terms of defined and agreed targets) was
demanding for the GDC because the target performance indicators required reforms in border and clearance
procedures, a well targeted action plan, change of mentality in Customs inspection, and implementation of
physical infrastructure improvements. However, on the positive side, since the Minister of Finance was the
Project Coordinator, and the Ministry was heavily involved in the project, the Bank could approach them
directly for resolving outstanding issues. The Ministry's support ensured a high level government
commitment that balanced the low ownership of the GDC; the country's circumstances required that type
of arrangement since the Minister of Finance was changing the Customs Director every three to six months.

The project consisted of five components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. These were
standard components replicated in all TTFSE projects. The PIT had sufficient technical, administrative and
financial capacity for a successful project management.

Component I: Customs Services Procedures Reform (US$0.8 million: 6.1 % of the total project cost)




                                                       - 3 -

·     Monitoring and review of Customs procedures
·     Enhancing interagency awareness and training

Component II: Trade Facilitation Development (US$0.4 million: 3.6 % of the total project cost)

·     Provision of technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international transport
      participants through the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade ( ALBAPRO Committee)
·     Improvement of communication between border control agencies and trading community by using a
virtual forum
·     Provision of equipment to support information availability

Component III: Support to Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) (US$2.3 million: 18.5 %
of the total project cost)

·     Equipment for ICIS and communication improvement
·     A regional program of experience-sharing for stimulating regional and inter-agency cooperation

Component IV: Improvement of Roads and Border Crossing Facilities (US$8.2 million: 66.6 % of
the total project cost)

·     Rehabilitation of Qafe-Thane and Morina border crossings
·     Equipment for enforcing the processing and investigation capacity at Customs stations
·     Rehabilitation and completion of road and bridge works at Lezhe Connection, Fushe Kruje -
Mamurrasi, and Librazhd - Qafe Thane sections
·     Design and supervision of the civil works

Component V: Program and Project Implementation (US$0.6 million: 5.2% of the total project cost)

This component included the services required to support both the national project and the regional
implementation of the program. At the national level, services included financing auditors and procurement
consultants, the PIT staff, establishment of a financial management system, and training the
PIT/Implementing Agencies staff. At the regional level these consisted of support to organize and
participate in Regional Steering Committee (RSC) meetings.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Highly Satisfactory. The ICR deems the quality at entry to be highly satisfactory and the project as well
conceived. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a Quality at Entry Assessment and rated the
overall assessment as highly satisfactory.

QAG commented that: (i) the project had a very strong and compelling development rationale; (ii) project
objectives fitted well with Albania's priority needs (institutional reforms, exports, regional cooperation,
transparency and reduction in corruption in the public sector); (iii) it was a challenging operation, yet its
specific objectives and monitoring indicators reflected actual country circumstances and did not promise



                                                   - 4 -

what was not feasible; (iv) project design took into account efforts with Customs reforms elsewhere (e.g.
crucial importance of software aspects), and also built on similar projects being undertaken in parallel in
six neighboring countries. Design of the project as a regional effort was both innovative and necessary; (v)
consultation with and participation of the major stakeholders was a key strength of the project; (vi) various
public institutions in Albania as well as business community were consulted during preparation and were
closely involved in project implementation arrangements; and (vii) close collaboration and cooperation with
neighboring countries and the EU were a key feature, as well.

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the
Government priorities, and met the critical needs of Albania's trade and transport sector. Since the PIT was
established with the appropriate technical capacities, the quality of project design was generally adequate to
meet the project's objectives. During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned,
from other earlier projects in Albania and other countries, were considered and incorporated into the project
design.

The project was prepared in collaboration and consultation with exporters, importers, producers and
consumers; road transport operators, freight forwarders/shippers, traders organizations; ALBAPRO,
Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade (MECT), MOF and GDC; MOTT, GRD; Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MOAF), as well as sanitary and veterinary inspection agencies; Ministry of Public
Order (MPO), the Border Police (BP); and foreign investors. In addition, consultations were held with such
other key stakeholders as the EU (PHARE), the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
(UN-ECE), and the US Government; the population in the vicinity of borders; the International Road
Transport Union (IRU) and the Federation of International Forwarding Agents (FIATA). This kind of
extensive stakeholder consultations and the participatory process in project preparation substantially
contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.

During project preparation, three project designs were considered:

·     Regional Program of Investment Projects. A regional program of coordinated border crossing
      facilitation projects was more advantageous and was selected since it was expected to: (i) generate
      substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade partner
      countries of Albania; (ii) allow the program countries to share information and introduce more
      consistent customs and border control procedures/operations; (iii) be flexible enough to respond to
      country differences, the pace of European integration, and the impact of the EU enlargement process;
      (iv) enable the Bank to coordinate with other donors that also implement regional programs; and (v)
      minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.

·     Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country. The possibility of preparing
      independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and rejected since the achievement
      of overall project objectives would be greatly aided by simultaneous standardization and
      harmonization of cross-border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among countries and
      with the EU.

·     Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL). A regional or "horizontal" APL, would have enabled
      sequential entry of countries in the Program. This horizontal APL, however, was judged to be
      unfeasible because: (i) such delegation by the Board was thought unlikely; and (ii) the determination
      of the future value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program would
      have been a delicate and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program.



                                                     - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Marginally Satisfactory.Overall, the project outcome was marginally satisfactory. However, in the
absence of `marginal' ratings for the ICR, the ICR team is constrained to give a Satisfactory rating in
Section 2 (Principal Performance Ratings).

In general, the project met its development objectives through: (i) its support to Customs reform; improved
interaction between private and public sectors; (iii) dissemination of information and training to private
sector; (iv) financing of infrastructure and equipment; and (v) implementation at pilot sites of integrated
Customs procedures and new information technology, which has contributed to reducing non-tariff costs to
trade and transport. The project has also contributed in reducing smuggling at border crossings through the
use of selective examination and border control equipment. Introduction of risk analysis system started its
implementation at the beginning of 2005, and the full roll-out, together with the use of ASYCUDA and
extension of telecommunication system in all customs houses, would further help in reducing smuggling
and corruption. Anecdotal evidence has shown that the project has facilitated in reducing corruption at
border crossings as well. The end of 2004 statistical data received from MoF, shows that compared to
2002, the import of "strong goods", such as tobacco, and fuel increased by 34% and 15%, respectively.
The implementation of telecommunication and information system, the Customs Administration and
ALBAPRO websites have increased the transparency and have and will further reduce opportunities for
corruption.

The implementation of border crossing rehabilitation component has improved the flow of traffic and space
for vehicle inspection/processing, thus expediting the border crossing time. At the same time, the physical
improvements contributed to better working conditions of Customs front line officers. Similarly,
implementation of ICIS contributed to accelerate the speed in processing customs clearance, faster
transmission of data and risk analyses to/from HQ.

As shown Table 1, the overall Customs performance has improved and most of the targets were met. The
revenue collected per staff increased from US$358,000 in 2000 to US$580,000 in March 2005, and
reached the target. The Customs cost per revenue collected indicator has improved compared to the
baseline figure of 2.52. In March 2005, it was at 1.7% of the revenue collected, and close to the defined
target of 1.5%, and showing improved efficiency of Customs operations. Other indicators were also close
to the target. The performance indicators at the pilot sites (Table 2) were improved, although some of them
did not meet the targets. These mixed achievements indicate that maximum benefits are yet to be obtained
using ASYCUDA clearance system and risk analysis, which are still under implementation, with the
support of the EU. It has to be noted that the delays in the start-up of ASYCUDA had a negative impact in
reaching the Customs/pilot sites performance indicators.


The details are as follows:



A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform

(a) National Performance Indicators. During the project implementation, the development objective
indicators made substantial progress as shown below:




                                                     - 6 -

                                               Table 1

         Indicators          1999    2000      2001         2002        2003         2004       March
                                                                                                 2005

                             Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act.  Targ 2 Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act.
                                                                       .
Development Objective
Achievements
Revenue Collected/Customs    270   330   358  350   368  375   374   400    431   400   559    400   580
Staff (US$000)
Total GDC Cost/Revenue       2.52 1.85 2.59 1.78 2.52 1.62     2.0    1.5   2.0    1.5  1.85   1.5    1.7
Collected (%)
Salaries/Revenue Collected   1.26  0.7  1.46 0.71 1.28    0.7  1.0    0.7   1.4    0.7  1.34   0.7   1.25
(%)
Trade Volume/Number of       1471 1550 1448 1650 1446 1800 1850 2000 2200 2000 1996 2000 2100
Staff (US$000)
Annual Number of             229   320   267  450   278  610   285   800    228   800   271    800   290
Declarations/Custom Staff
Value of Recorded Imports    1154 1117 1098 1218 1063 1327 1498 1447 1498 1447 1834 1447 1956
(US$ mil.)
Value of Recorded Exports    274   353   262  413   308  475   329   547    475   547   449    547   543
(US$ mil.)



·  The revenue collected/Customs staff increased from $270,000 in 1999 to $580,000 in March 2005 (a
53% increase).
·  Total GCD cost/revenue collected (%) was 1.7 in March 2005 against the target 1.5.This ratio was
   2.52 in 1999. Although the target was slightly not met, the figures indicate notable improvement in
   Customs productivity.
·  Salaries/revenue collected (%) was 1.25 in March 2005 against the target of 0.7. In 1999 this ratio was
1.26.
·  Trade volume/number of staff ($000/staff) increased from $1,471,000 in 1999 to $2,100,000 in March
2005, against the target of US$2,000,000.
·  Annual Number of Declarations/Custom Staff increased from 229 in 1999 to 290 in March 2005.
·  Value of Recorded Imports: The value increased from $1,154 million in 1999 to US$1,956 million in
March 2005.
·  Value of Recorded Exports: The value increased from $274 million in 1999 to US$543 million in
March 2005.




                                                 - 7 -

(b) Pilot Sites Indicators

                                                  Table 2

          Indicators         1999      2000        2001         2002       2003         2004      March
                                                                                                    2005
                             Act. Targ.  Act  4 Targ. Act. Targ. Act.   Targ 5 Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act.
                                                                          .
 1. Performance of General Directorate of Customs (GDC)
 Pilot Inland Terminal of Tirana
 Import Clearance Time        240   200          150   204   120   137   60     89    60    70    60    64
 (min.)
 Physical Examination (%)     90     75           60   83.5   35   100   25     26    25    12    25    12
 Trucks cleared in less than   0      0           10    0     30     0   40     2.5   40     2    40     7
 15 min. (%)
 Irregularities/No. of         3      5           8    23.3   11     9   15      0    15     9    15    18
 Examinations (%)
 Pilot Border Crossing of Durres
 Truck Examination (%)        100    95           80    83    50   100   20    12.3   20     0    20     0
 Irregularities/No. of         3      5           7    1.4    11     0   15      0    15     0    15     0
 Examinations (%)
 Average Border Exit Time     55     50           45   12.3   40   N/A   30     20    30    28    30    29
 (min.)
 Average Border Entry Time    120   110           95 124.6 80      170   60     98    60    70    60    63
 (min.)
 Surveyed Occurrence of       100    99           98   100    97         95           95
 Corruption (index)
 Pilot Border Crossing of Qafe Thane
 Truck Examination (%)        100    80           60   53.6   40   100   20    20.6   20     0    20     0
 Irregularities/No. of         3      5           7    0.5    14     0   20      0    20     0    20     0
 Examinations (%)
 Average Border Exit Time     40     35           30   12.4   25    10   20     19    20    19    20    19
 (min.)
 Average Border Entry Time    80     70           55   58.4   40    89   30     37    30    24    30    28
 (min.)
 Surveyed Occurrence of       100    99           98          97         95           95
 Corruption (index)



An Action Plan including detailed measures and deadlines for improvement of performance indicators at
the pilot sites of Tirana and Durres was developed in 2003. The plan brought about considerable
improvements, but not as much as expected. The clearance time at the Tirana inland station had decreased
from 204 minutes in 2001 to 70 minutes in 2004, and to 64 minutes in March 2005, which is close to the
target of 60 minutes.

For Durres Port, the average border entry time was 124 minutes in 2001, it increased to 170 minutes in
2002 and it decreased to 98 minutes in 2003, compared to the target of 60 minutes. The Action Plan for
managing the traffic within the port, as well as the additional investment for cleaning the parking area and
the introduction of ASYCUDA, in this pilot site, brought very good results, and the entry time reached to



                                                    - 8 -

63 minutes in March 2005 (down from 120 minutes in 1999), compared to the target of 60 minutes.

At Qafe Thane, the average border entry time reached the target of 30 minutes entry time, since 2003, and
it has been the pilot site with best results. In March 2005, the entry time registered was 28 minutes, thus
exceeding the target of 30 minutes. This was due to infrastructure improvements financed by the project.

The practice of breaking all truck seals started to be phased out, once the ASYCUDA selectivity module
was initiated, and will be fully abolished when the module becomes fully operational. Regarding the
weighing of trucks at Durres, which used to be a bottleneck, the GDC has installed a new weighing bridge,
outside the Customs area, so that the weighing will not impede the Customs processes, except for the trucks
with final destination in Durres (about 15% of all traffic), which continue to be weighed on existing
weighing bridge, within the Customs controlled area.

Risk Analysis and Selectivity (RAS). GDC has created a Risk Analysis and Selectivity Department within
the Investigation Sector. Supported by ASYCUDA, a risk and selectivity module (ModSel) is ready for
implementation. Although the full results of the system implementation could not be captured during the
project life, due to delays in the release of EU funding for this assistance, it is expected that the
implementation of risk analysis and selectivity in Customs clearance process will further improve the
performance in Tirana, Durres, and other clearance terminals throughout the country.

(c) Regional Performance Indicators      3




Development of transport time and costs on the routes Istanbul - Bucharest, Istanbul ­ Tirana, Sarajevo -
Ljubljana

                                                     Table 3

                                                                           Survey Period
                Route                   Indicators          CYCLE 1          CYCLE 2           CYCLE 3
                                                            (2001/02)       (Spring 2003)   (Autumn 2003)
 I. Istanbul-Bucharest               Avg. Time         No data available        24-48            24-48
                                     (hours)           since Turkey was
                                     Average Cost      not one of the three   800-1560          800-1460
                                     (US$)             main trading
                                                       partners
 II. Istanbul-Tirana                 Avg. Time                 120               90                85
                                     (hours)
                                     Average Cost             1900            1500-1900        1500-1800
                                     (US$)
 III. Sarajevo-Ljubljana             Avg. Time                 16               17-24            18-24
                                     (hours)
                                     Average Cost            30-1000          550-1025          520-1060
                                     (US$)


It should be noted that the transport fees of forwarders included in these costs do not reflect just the
situation at border crossings in the project, but rather the situation of the whole transport market of a
TTFSE country and the extent of its stability. In general, there is an increase of transportation costs in the
the TTFSE region, that can be attributed to: (i) increased range of services and share of services in total
costs; (ii) influence of the individual contacts of a forwarder and the chances (coming from bilateral foreign



                                                       - 9 -

trade) to get load for the return trip; (iii) development of the road pricing on special routes; (iv)
modernization of the truck fleet; (v) still unstable transport market; (vi) stronger enforcement of transport
legislation within the EU-15 countries, by transporters from Southeast Europe (SEE); and, (vii) escalation
of prices, especially for fuel, lubricant, tires, and spares.

B. Trade Facilitation (TF) Development

(a) Strengthening of Public-Private Partnership

This component supported the activities of ALBAPRO - the national trade and transport facilitation
committee gathering main stakeholders from the private sector (Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI)
of Albania, Association of Freight Forwarders, and the public sector (Albanian Foreign Trade Center,
MECT, MOAF, MOTT, and GDC. The outputs included:

·   An extensive public outreach effort to raise awareness about trade and transport facilitation over the
    years 2001-2004, in the form of articles and promotional editorials published in newspapers News
    Letter, boards presenting ALBAPRO activities, and booklets distributed at various events (Southeast
    Investment Forum, in 2003).

·   Active regional opportunities to cooperate. The PRO committees of SEE met three to four times a
    year regionally to discuss the Trade Facilitation component and other trade facilitation issues. They
    also met regularly on a bilateral basis to address urgent issues and discuss cooperation.

·   The elaboration and release of a joint information platform for users (www.ttfse.org). The website,
    designed and maintained regionally, provides information on requirements of many border agencies in
    SEE. Multiple regional coordination meetings were organized to define and build the platform.

·   Three exchange programs to the US focused on border issues, supply chain management and security,
    and use of analytical tools (trade facilitation audits) to review their present status.

Certificates of Professional Competence (CPC) were issued by ALBAPRO to the participants. ALBAPRO
plans to work with IRU and FIATA on establishing accredited training centers, which would provide
training certified by these organizations. In addition, Alba-PRO has completed its promotional activities,
including the posting of five billboards at Border Crossing Points (BCPs), disseminating leaflets and TV
advertising.

The website became operational in June 2003. The website specialist uploaded a considerable amout of
data into the system (about 90%). At the end of 2003, every ministry nominated its representative and since
then, a lot of information has been provided. The website coordinator together with ALBAPRO is trying to
find funding needed for establishment of a site in Albania that would be more useful for small and medium
companies. ALBAPRO has, in cooperation with the MECT, launched the site to the trading community in
December 2004.

(b) Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents

The component combined active conventional training initiated through a regional train-the-trainer
approach with the elaboration of three pilot Distance Learning programs with certification.




                                                       - 10 -

Training and Seminars. A regional curriculum was developed for TTFSE countries covering topics such
as trade operations, transport, customs procedures, transit, business ethics, INCOTERMS, and trade
payment methods. Five professionals from Albania attended an intensive train-the-trainer session in the
Koc University. The ALBAPRO organized 18 seminars for the conventional training program in trade,
transport, and logistics, gathering participants in about 12 cities of Albania. The Chamber is reviewing the
possibility of continuing these programs after the end of the TTFSE project, building on the existing
training modules. Participants were highly satisfied with the training, and indicated that the courses were
"well structured, useful, and delivered by very professional trainers".

Distance Learning/Blended Training Programs. The first two distance learning programs for road
transport operators (freight/passenger transport) were successfully piloted. The content developed is used
primarily for blended delivery of training (mix of face-to-face and self-study with exam). The training
manuals were rolled out in most of SEE. ALBAPRO is working with IRU and FIATA on the establishment
of accredited training centers, which would be capable of provide training to the standards of these
organizations.

C. Support to ICIS

The introduction of ICIS has significantly shortened the time in processing Customs declarations. The
system, including fast telecommunications, resulted in immediate access of the HQ officials to the Customs
data, improved monitoring and risk analysis. In addition, GDC has now more reliable and up-to-date
information on the customs houses' daily activities. All Customs houses know in advance the expected
traffic for the next day, which results in a better traffic management and shorter clearance time. The new
system furnishes risk profiles and related information that results in improving other performance
indicators, such as the efficiency of physical examinations, which in turn means lower number of
examinations and higher detection rate, as well as higher efficiency of the anti-smuggling teams. Finally,
the immediate access to data led to less clearance or entry times for low risk trucks.

D. Improvement of Roads and Border Crossing Facilities

This component includes three road contracts (traffic bottleneck areas) and two bridges, namely: (i)
Fushe-Kruja interchange (North South Corridor of Albania); (ii) a connection segment in Lezha (North
South Corridor of Albania); and (iii) two bridges in the completed road section Elbasan ­ Qafe Thane (East
­ West Corridor of Albania), as well as the rehabilitation works at border crossings, namely: (i) Morine
(border with Kosovo) BCP; and (ii) Qafe Thane (border with Macedonia) BCP.

These works contributed to the reduction of traveling time and vehicle operating costs, ensuring better
access of the transporters toward border crossing with Montenegro (Hani i Hotit), Kosovo (Morine) and
Macedonia (Qafe Thane).

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Institutional Reform of Customs Administration

A Risk Management Workshop was held by the STAT at Bucharest in 2004, attended by all risk
management team members, from eight regional offices and the headquarters. A manual, providing
operational guidelines to the Intelligence staff on profiling, selectivity, risk assessment, and risk indicators,
was prepared and delivered.




                                                     - 11 -

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component II. Trade Facilitation Development

See Section 4.1 (B).

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component III. Support to ICIS

(a) Equipment for support to ICIS (Hardware)

Under this component, TTFSE financed the following contracts: (i) design of telecommunication system for
GDC; (ii) four generators and nine power control equipment; (iii) revision of telecom design and
preparation of bidding documents; (iv) computers, printers and UPS for GDC; and (v) additional
computers and IT equipment for GDC.

ASYCUDA++ provided by UNCTAD and financed by the EU is fully operational at the Tirana inland
terminal and Durres port, including the related infrastructure and trained staff. All the declarations are
logged and processed electronically. The software was also installed in Qafe Thane and Vlora BCPs. The
installation is progressing at Elbasan, Kakavija and Kapshtica BCPs.

(b) Telecommunication

The contract for supply and installation of telecommunication system, for the sites of Kakavije, Morine,
Kapshtice, HQ, Intelligence Unit, Elbasan, Durres Ferry, Qafe Thane and Fier, was signed, after the
re-bidding, in July 2004. Amendment of the contract included three more sites, in Vlora and Lezha ports,
and Tushemisht (in the border with Macedonia). The implementation was successfully completed in March
2005, including the delivery and installation of equipment., while testing of the equipment (within the
guarantee period) was completed in June 2005. The system is now up and running, and it is considered a
significant success by the GDC. The benefits of the telecommunication system include: (i) quick and
reliable information within 24 hours, (ii) better traffic management at the border customs houses, and (iii)
important improvement in risk management process. Risk profiles are improved because of fresh data fed
into the system on a daily basis. In addition, it reduces the possibility, for both traders and customs front
line officers, to bend the rules.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component IV. Improvement of Roads and Border Crossing Facilities

Under this component TTFSE financed the following contracts: (i) design of border station; (ii) design of
roads; (iii) civil works for roads divided in three lots; (iv) civil works for border station divided in two lots;
(v) supervision of road works; (vi) supervision of border station civil works; (vii) minor civil works for
Durres Port; and (viii) the PIT advisor for roads contracts.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component V. Program and Project Implementation



                                                      - 12 -

The project financed the services required to support both the national project and the regional
implementation of the program. At the national level, services included financing auditors and procurement
consultants, the PIT staff, establishment of a financial management system, and training the
PIT/Implementing Agencies staff. At the regional level, the project provided support to organize and to
ensure participation in RSC meetings.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The project had an estimated net present value of US$5.3 million, based on the methodology used during
the appraisal. Traffic increased much faster than originally forecasted, on both, the road section and the
border and clearance locations. The overall project costs were higher, by US$3.2 million, than projections.
The combined outcome is a higher net present value (US$15.1 million) and rate of return (59 percent
versus 33 percent at appraisal) than originally anticipated. A recent independent review conducted from the
US State Department confirmed that time reduction at the Albanian pilot sites is significant. It is worth
noting that in line with the overall project objective of facilitating trade, Albania experienced a solid trade
expansion during the project life, which is not considered directly as part of the analysis, with trade
increasing by 41 percent between 2001 and 2004 (+US$560 million). Albania also experienced an increase
in Customs collected revenues (+58 percent, or US$200 million) during the same period. It is likely that the
estimated trade benefit, equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits, used in the evaluation is an
understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossing.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The fiscal impact of the project was positive, with the Customs administration increasing by US$200
million their collections, between 2001 and 2004. Trade expansion and improved performance of Customs
have generated additional Customs duties and excise taxes. The Government also benefited from the
parallel (grant) financing provided by the US Government.

Since the Customs administration is not a revenue earning entity, FRR was not calculated. Part of the
increase in revenue collection can be associated to the enhanced processing by Customs, particularly at
pilot sites, but also at other sites, through the rollout of a Customs information system that had a national
impact. The calculation of direct fiscal impact was however not possible since many factors played a role
(trade increase, reduction in tariffs, free trade agreements) in the fiscal collection by Customs, as well as
ongoing activities by other donors. The overall efficiency indicators (See Development Indicators) also
underline significant progress in the cost effectiveness of Customs.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest. The project focused on procedural changes at the border, and the trade facilitation role of
Customs. It created awareness on the importance of cross-border cooperation among neighboring countries.
The project was also instrumental in improving dialogue among Customs administrations within the region.
For example, since the first RSC of the TTFSE program was held in February 2000, in Skopje
(Macedonia), seven other RSC meetings have taken place on a regular basis before the project closure, with
an average of two per year (at the beginning two per year, lately one per year).

The project facilitated the implementation of the new Customs Code, adoption of simplified and standard



                                                      - 13 -

Customs and border inspection procedures, such as risk analysis and selectivity procedures (use of
ModSel), and introduction of green channel. Customs staff received training in ASYCUDA and in using
modern equipment, with new procedures and new systems, which were tested during the life of the project.
However, since the project was not implemented by GDC, the institutional development impact was only
modest.

Monitoring the performance of Customs administration, using key performance indicators, has led to
substantial institutional development impact. Even though these indicators were initially tested on three
pilot sites, they are now replicated at three other Customs stations, and would be extended very soon to all
the Customs stations in Albania. The ICIS, introduced by the project, will also increase Customs
Department's capacity to make effective use of its financial resources.

The project was instrumental in creating local project teams, which were semi-informal structures with
representatives of each administration working at border/customs sites (Customs, Veterinary, Police,
Phyto-sanitary). It also provided technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international
transport participants through ALBAPRO Committee.

Finally, the three-year Users Survey comparative results, published on the TTFSE regional website,
provided a diagnostic of the overall Customs environment , from the users' perspective, in a transparent
                                                             6,


manner, thus contributing to a substantial improvement of the dialogue between Customs and its clients.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

A. Positive Factors

(a)   The vision of becoming a member of the EU on the part of all the TTFSE countries was a major
      incentive, significantly motivating the ownership and the high level of commitment to the project
      from the Government.

(b)   The preparation of the TTFSE Program was preceded by the Southeast Europe Cooperation
      Initiative (SECI), sponsored by the USA and the Stability Pact. The TTFSE was designed to
      mesh with co-financing from the USA under SECI and seen as the first regional program under the
      Stability Pact. This gave the projects under the program high credibility and visibility.

(c    Excellent donor coordination among the Bank, EU, and the US Government and their speaking as
      one voice made a positive impact on the project. Collaborative mechanisms were created in
      Washington, D.C and the field, and recurrent missions visited Brussels for consultations with EU.

(d)   The regional approach of the TTFSE Program. The creation of a RSC, where the performance of
      individual projects could be compared with the performance of neighboring countries and the sharing
      of experience and lessons learned, developed the peer pressure among the participating countries,
      which in turn generated a competitive spirit and motivated them to perform better.

(e)   Strengthening the role of the private sector, especially with the emergency of PRO-Committees
      under SECI, and the increased professionalism of operators through training, certification, and the
      web-site under the project, provided the beginning of a private sector watch-dog function, monitoring
      government performance, and breaking down the resistance to data sharing in this sector.



                                                     - 14 -

B. Negative Factors

(a)  The dramatic increase in oil prices, not foreseen during project preparation, affected the
     achievement of regional performance indicators related to reduction of transport costs. Similarly, the
     drop of the US dollar vis-a-vis the EURO was not foreseen when establishing the targets. These
     situations diminished the usefulness of the regional indicators.

(b)  Vested interests within the trade sector and related economic interests were well-entrenched, not
     readily transparent, and still serve to reinforce corruption as an institutionalized way of doing
     business. Addressing corruption in such a setting cannot bring results overnight. This was recognized
     in the project design, and the reform process was projected within an eight to ten year time-frame.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

A. Positive Factors

(a)  High ownership from MOF. As mentioned in Section 3.1, the Minister of Finance was the Project
     Coordinator and the MOF was highly involved in the project. As a result, the Bank could approach
     them directly for resolving outstanding issues. The Ministry's support ensured a high level of
     government commitment that balanced the low involvement of the GDC.

(b)  High degree of cooperation from some agencies. The project benefited from a high level of
     cooperation from various agencies. For example, the MECT was instrumental in creating
     ALBAPRO Committee and it helped in moving the Committee from the Ministry to the Chamber of
     Commerce. Similarly, the Council of Ministers was proactive in passing relevant acts and resolutions
     for promoting the project.

B. Negative Factors

(a)  High turnover of key staff in GDC. In the four years of the project, the GDC had six different
     Director Generals (DG). In each instant, when a new person occupied the DG position, the occupants
     of many other important positions within the organization also changed. This had an adverse impact
     on the ownership by Customs of the reform program. At the same time, however, the project team set
     up at the level of MOF (and benefiting from strong support and coordination by the Minister)
     remained the same, during the entire project period, which ensured continuity in the implementation.

 (b) Resistance in implementing selectivity. Although Customs introduced a selectivity policy, this did
     not yield the expected results, which were directly reflected in the initial poor results of the
     performance indicators. There were several reasons for the shortcomings in the selectivity policy of
     Customs: (i) GDC is over reliant on the introduction of computerization to establish a real selective
     approach to verifications; (ii) legislation did not always allow Customs to exercise discretion in
     examining cargo; (iii) interference from the Border Police deters Customs officers from applying a
     selective approach, out of fear that a subsequent re-examination may reveal an irregularity, for which
     the Customs officer would be accused of connivance; and (iv) there is a deeply ingrained attitude that
     full examinations of all consignments are a deterrent to smuggling and irregularities.

(c)  The closing date of the project was extended by nine months because of the delay caused by
     re-bidding the telecommunication package. This contract was, however, signed subsequently.


                                                    - 15 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Delay in implementing and installing ASYCUDA, which was supported by EU. The process for the
installation of ASYCUDA, was planned by the end of 2000, but it did not start until early 2003. It has to
be noted that the delays in the start-up of ASYCUDA had an impact in the mixed results in the
Customs/pilot sites performance indicators.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total final cost of the project was US$14.4 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$12.3
million. The difference is mainly due to benefit on the exchange rate between SDR and US$, as well as the
participation of the GOA, which was increased beyond the estimate. The original credit amount was
US$8.1 million. The Bank financed US$8.6 million (59.7%); USA financed US$1.3 million (9.0%); and
the Government contributed US$4.5 million equivalent in local costs (31.2 %).




                                                    - 16 -

                             Project Cost and Financing, including taxes (US$)

                           Government                 USA                     IDA                  Total
 Estimated Cost             2.9 (23.5%)            1.3 (10.5%)             8.1 (65.8%)             12.3
 (PAD)
 Final Cost (ICR)           4.5 (31.2 %)           1.3 (9.0%)              8.6 (59.7%)             14.4



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as likely for the following reasons:

Considering that Albania is keen to become a member of the EU by 2015, it is highly likely that the
Government will take special efforts to sustain the achievements of the project for the smooth integration
with the EU. In addition, because of the wide publicity given on the results achieved, and the availability of
public information, the public is well aware of the recent developments and as a result, it will be difficult
for the Government to backtrack. The EU presence in support to the public administration and training will
continue under the CARDS Program, and in the meantime, CAM-A and Police Assistance Mission of
European Commission to Albania, will continue to assist GDC and Border Police.

GDC has improved its level of performance, in terms of reducing border crossing and clearance time (and
this is an irreversible event); increased its revenues because of better performance, implementation of the
reforms, reduction of smuggling, and especially greater awareness of the trade community and Customs
staff on the benefits of fair and transparent business activity. For example, the implementation of
ASYCUDA is expected to streamline the procedures and improve the performance of Customs staff. In
addition, the following factors would also strengthen the sustainability in Customs: (i) lately there has been
increased stability at senior management level; (ii) the project goals are now incorporated into Customs
objectives as part of its annual plan; (iii) key staff at pilot sites is supportive of the program reforms, and
capable of moving forward with support from upper management; and (iv) strong commitment from MOF
to the program will result in continued pressure on Customs to continue expansion of program concepts.

The monitoring approach using key indicators developed under the TTFSE is likely to be continued beyond
the project life, as the Customs management is determined to follow-up on performance monitoring, and to
gradually expand it to the main border and Customs inland locations in Albania. Actually it is expanded to
Kapshtica, Kakavije and Vlora. For the continued collection of data, the Government has proposed that the
GDC itself take on this function according to an expansion plan that would gradually be applied to all
borders and inland terminals within one year. In March 2005, the MOF expressed Albania's commitment
to be part of the second regional Trade and Transport Facilitation Program, agreeing with its extended
objectives for integrated border management and increasing the role of border agencies.

The TTFSE regional website is likely to continue, and several of the PRO committees underlined their
intention to commercialize the site to facilitate its sustainability. The updating of the site is not yet assured
however at this stage. Likewise, the TF Distance Learning Program will be continued beyond the project
life.

Regarding roads and border crossing facilities, appropriate funds are ensured for maintenance. The GRD
and GDC have committed and will continue to commit in the future appropriate funding (operation and



                                                      - 17 -

maintenance) to maintain, but not limited to them, the road sections and border crossing facilities improved
under the project.

However, for ensuring the long-term sustainability of the project, continuation of Customs reform,
continuation of cooperation among border agencies, communication with trade community, and
enhancement of the role of ALBAPRO Committee are very important.

Finally, Albania is looking ahead to future progress in trade facilitation, seen as a follow-up regional
operation, building on the experience, lessons learned, and mechanisms provided under the TTFSE. Whie
TTFSE has so far focused on carrying out procedural customs related reforms on BCPs and road transport
related trade facilitation, the program aslo identified further areas of development: (i) the coordination and
cooperation among various border agencies, (ii) the supply-chain based communication and informatio
sharing accross other transport modes in the region; (iii) the streamline operational proedures to enhance
efficiency and interoperability of international transport, and (iv) the need to focus activities on main
regional transport corridors to optimize benefits and enhance modal and corridor competition.

These issues are common to the countries involved in the TTFSE program and warrant the development of
a common framework for regional trade and transport facilitation, as well as introduction of a regional
approach of coordinated efforts of neghboring countries in this regard. The enhancement of transport
services would also complement on-going efforts to curb corruption and smuggling at border crossing
points.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory, especially in view of the setting of the project within a regional program. The identification
process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the region's trade and transport
sectors and then sought to match these with the specific needs and interest of the GOA and the evolving
private sector. The identification and preparatory phase, however, took longer than planned because the
Bank team in charge of the TTFSE's overall program changed in the summer of 1999.

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and Government's development priorities. The Bank
considered the adequacy of the project's design and technical, economic, institutional aspects, procurement
and financial management. Project design also took into account efforts with Customs reforms elsewhere
(e.g. crucial importance of software aspects), and was also built on similar projects which were undertaken
in parallel in six neighboring countries. In addition, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Consultation with and participation of major stakeholders was a key strength of the project.
Various public institutions in Albania as well as the business community were consulted during preparation
and were closely involved in project implementation arrangements. Further, close collaboration and
cooperation with neighboring countries and the EU was another key feature of the project.




                                                     - 18 -

The extensive stakeholder consultations and participatory approach used by the team were productive,
initiating a process of ownership (albeit at high-level Government rather than at GDC) that proved useful at
the implementation stage, and introducing elements for gradual incorporation into the work culture of
GDC.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The task
team was very proactive in the management of this project. Sufficient budget and staff resources were
allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The Bank's relationship with
the client was cordial and productive. Review teams included specialists in transport, trade facilitation,
Customs, environment, financial management, and procurement. External consultants were used for
specific aspects of project components. Supervision was regularly joined by the US Customs Assistance
Team (STAT) at country and regional levels; the US expert deployed in Albania came several months after
the project started, but didn't fail to bring his knowledge and expertise in the Customs institutional reforms
assessment, data collection, monitoring of performance indicators, and selectivity. In addition, the US
Customs support in Albania was strengthened by the constant visits of the STAT regional manager located
in Sofia.

Project implementation progress was adequately reported, and implementation problems were identified
early and addressed proactively. Performance ratings given in the PSRs were realistic, and sufficient
attention was paid to likely the project's development impact. The Bank enforced loan covenants and
remedies were duly exercised. The task team showed flexibility in suggesting or approving needed
modifications, and successfully worked with the Government, implementing agencies, cofinanciers and
other partners. The cooperation and information sharing with Customs Assistance Mission-Albania
(CAM-Albania) was constant and useful, and avoided any overlapping with the on-going assistance
provided by the EU; moreover, the US advisor to TTFSE was located in the premises of CAM-A.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of
design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the PIT
worked in full cooperation with the Bank's project team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Marginally Satisfactory. The Government implementation performance was marginally satisfactory.
However, in the absence of `marginal' ratings in the ICR Template, the ICR team is constrained to give a
Satisfactory rating in Annex 6.

The government commitment in supporting the reforms and implementation of Customs and border



                                                     - 19 -

management legislation should have been stronger. Despite the support of the Finance Minister, the
involvement and commitment of GDC were relatively low; Customs Directors changed six times during the
implementation period, and stability was reached only during the last year and half of the project. However,
there were no problems related to counterpart funds, procurement and disbursement, reporting and
monitoring, introduction of ASYCUDA and risk analysis, once installed.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of the PIT in project implementation was satisfactory. The PIT consisted of
competent staff and it was adequately funded. It was capable of managing the project, under the
supervision of and with the support of the Minister of Finance. The PIT served as liaison between MOF
and GDC and secured the continuity of project implementation during the various changes in Cutsoms
management. The PIT was actively involved in the implementation of the Action Plan for Tirana and
Durres, and the monitoring and reporting to the Bank in this regard were satisfactory. The PIT maintained
a good financial management system with detailed internal controls, satisfactory accounting and reporting
systems, and auditing arrangements.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A. Project and Program-related Lessons

·   Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-sectoral and
    multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight agencies are involved, their active
    participation and cooperation are essential for successful implementation and achievement of project
    objectives, and also for ensuring sustainability. In addition, delegation of authority to agents at the
    border crossing is essential for sustainable changes and to promote pragmatic approaches in problem
    resolution. A cooperative culture should be encouraged and promoted from the top down by the
    management of regulatory agencies.

·   Replication of Procedures at Pilot Sites. The lessons learned and the success experienced, at the more
    advanced customs border crossing points, provide a model for replication in Albania, as well as in
    other TTFSE countries. The economic returns from such replication could be considerable, multiplying
    the economic returns to date by several times. Albania should pursue in this direction, improving the
    procedures at border crossing points that were not included as pilot sites under the project.

·   Frequent rotation of staff in the GDC should be avoided to ensure smooth project implementation. As
    mentioned in Section 5.2, during implementation, there were frequent changes in the Customs
    administration management and key staff. That made it difficult for the organization to understand and
    "own" the project; it also contributed to some delays in the implementation, as new staff had to
    familiarize with the project, and the lower level staff had to be trained on procedures.

·   Customs control will become more effective and efficient under selective procedure. This fact has been
    demonstrated with the achievement of better results in detecting irregularities based on selective
    procedure.




                                                    - 20 -

·   Support for the TTFSE Website. Further cooperation and support from government agencies is
    essential to make the regional website sustainable and successful.

·   Multifunctional Border Inspection Facilities. While constructing border inspection facilities, it will
    be better to design them as multifunctional, so that they could be used for other purposes/activities
    after Albania's accession to EU in 2015, when the borders would no more be relevant.

B. Bank-related Lessons

·   The Bank's Focus in the Future Programs. The Bank should focus not only on trade facilitation, but
    also on legitimate security requirements and anti-terrorism aspects, such as container security code for
    the scanning of cargoes. Further to that, the Bank should recognize that, when the project involves
    several innovative reforms, it is normal to have higher risks and higher rewards. Another area is the
    integrated border management.

·   Result-oriented Approach. The main characteristic of the project was that it was result oriented with
    measurable indicators. This unique quality was a major factor which contributed to the success of the
    project.

·   Policy Dialogue. It is important to start the policy dialogue at the very beginning of the project, and to
    involve all important stakeholders, especially the trade and transporters community.

·   Regional Approach. With a regional approach, it is possible for a project to achieve better results than
    a stand-alone project. This approach would create peer pressure among the participating countries,
    which in turn would generate competitive spirit and motivation amongst them to perform better.

C. Miscellaneous

·     The contribution of the US as a parallel financier contributed to the success of the project. The
      USAID Grant was instrumental in improving public-private partnership, especially in light of the
      Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance to the private sector. Likewise, US
      Customs financed a permanent presence of Customs advisors in Albania (and the whole TTFSE
      region), to help with data collection, monitoring indicators, and improving the risk-management
      system in the GDC.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

(i) Comments to the Bank's ICR:


                                          Republic of Albania
                                          Ministry of Finance

Prot. No. 5334
                                                                                       Tirana, 08/23/2005


                                                    - 21 -

To: Mr. Nadir Mohammed
Country Manager & Head of Mission
The World Bank
Tirana

Re: Comments on the Draft ICR for the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast East
Europe Project (TTFSE) (credit 34270-AL)

On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, I wish to thank you for the contribution in the financing and
implementation of the TTFSE project.

After reviewing and discussing the draft ICR for the TTFSE we hereby express our agreement
with its content and conclusions.

While thanking you for the cooperation thus far, we hope and trust that the same spirit of
cooperation will prevail for projects in the pipeline.

Attached, please find the Borrower's Annex to attach it to your final ICR before its presentation
for approval in the Bank's Board.

Sincerely,

Arben Malaj
Minister


(ii) Borrower's Evaluation Report

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


1. Artan Guxho                    Task Team Leader, ECSIE
2. Sati Achath                    Consultant
3. Madhu Nair                     Consultant
4. Anca Dumitrescu                Transport Specialist, ECSIE
5. Marie Laygo                    Program Assistant




                                                   - 22 -

List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

1. Anca Dumitrescu
2. Artan Guxho

Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

1. Anca Dumitrescu                  Former Task Team Leader
2. Richardson Weldon                US Customs Advisor
3. Sabina Shyti                     TTFSE-PIT Manager
4. Vladimir Skendrovic              Consultant

Footnotes:

1/ The Customs declaration processing system developed by UNCTAD had been included in the EU assistance
program to Albania for the year 2000; however, it did not start until early 2003.

2/ The 2003 targets remained the same for year 2004 and throughout project extension

3/ Source: PlanConsult and Chamber of Commerce and Survey results, May 2004.

4/ No collection for 2000 due to lack of US assistance (started in 2001)

5/ The 2003 targets remained the same for year 2004 and throughout project extension

6/ The survey covered five main issues, in dynamic: (i) Customs legislation; (ii) Communication; (iii) Customs
procedures; (iv) Personnel; and (v) Logistics.




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Revenue collected/customs staff (US$000)        400                             580
Total GDC Cost/Revenue collected (%)            1.5                             1.7
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)                  0.7                             1.25
Trade Volume/Number of staff (US$000)           2,000                           2100
Annual Number of Declarations/Customs           800                             290
Staff
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ mil.)            1,447                           1,956
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ mil.)            547                             543


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Tirana - Import clearance Time (min.)           60                              64
Tirana - Physical Examination (%)               25                              12
Tirana - Trucks cleared in less than 15 min.    40                              7
(%)
Tirana - Irregularities/No. of examinations (%) 15                              18
Durres - Truck Examinations (%)                 20                              0
Durres - Irregularities/Np. of Examinations     15                              0
(%)
Durres - Average Border Exit Time (min.)        30                              29
Durres - Averabe Border Entry Time (min.)       60                              63
Qafe Thane - Truck Examination (%)              20                              0
Qafe Thane - Irregularities/ No. of             20                              0
Examinations (%)
Qafe Thane - Average Border Exit time (min.) 20                                 19
Qafe Thane - Average Border Entry Time          30                              28
(min.)

1End of project




                                                             - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

a. Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

 Project Component         Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
                                                                               Appraisal
Part A: Customs Service           0.9                     0.9                     100
Procedures Reform
Part B: Trade Facilitation        0.4                     0.4                     100
(TF) Development
Part C: Support to                2.0                     5.45                    272
Integrated Customs
Information System (ICIS).
Part D: Improvement of            6.9                     7.1                     103
Roads and Border Crossing
Facilities
Part E: Program and               0.6                     0.55                    92
Project Implementation
Total Baseline Costs              10.6
Physical Contingencies            1.0
Price Contingencies               0.8
Total Project Costs               12.3                    14.4                    117


b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)*

   Expenditure                Procurement Method                       Procurement Method
   Categories                  Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                     ICB     NCB     Other    NBF     Total    ICB    NCB     Other    NBF    Total
     1 Works          6.5                               6.5    7.1                             7.1
                     (4.2)                             (4.2)   (3.6)          (0...)          (3.6)
     2 Goods          3.0             0.3               3.3    4.0             0.4             4.4
                     (2.5)           (0.3)             (2.8)   (3.1)          (0.3)           (3.4)
  3 Consultant                        0.8      1.3      2.1                    1.4       1.3   2.7
   Services &                        (0.8)             (0.8)                  (1.4)           (1.4)
   Equipment
   4 Training.                        0.1               0.1                    0.1             0.1
                                     (0.1)             (0.1)                  (0.1)           (0.1)
  5. Operating                        0.2               0.2                    0.1             0.1
       Costs                         (0.2)             (0.2)                  (0.1)           (0.1)
       Total          9.4             1.5      1.3     12.3    11.1            2.0       1.3  14.4
                     (6.7)           (1.4)             (8.1)   (6.7)          (1.9)           (8.6)

     * Note: NBF =        Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing
     procedures, consultants under trust funds, any reserve procurement and any other
     miscellaneous items).
     The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed
     as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.




                                                 - 25 -

c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

       Component            Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
                         Bank  Gov't       Co-      Bank  Gov't        Co-    Bank   Gov't      Co-
                                         financier                  financier                 financier
Part A: Customs
Service Procedures                         0.9                         0.9                      100
Reform
Part B: Trade
Facilitation (TF)                          0.4                         0.4                      100
Development
Part C: Support to
Integrated Customs
Information System        1.9   0.4                 3.0     1.0               157     375
(ICIS).
Part D: Improvement of
Roads and Border          5.7   2.4                 5.1     3.5               57      145
Crossing Facilities
Part E: Program and
Project Implementation    0.6                       0.5                       83




                                             - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

    Cost Benefit Analysis

Costs

The project costs were higher than what was originally anticipated in the Project Appraisal Document for
components 3 and 4 of the project (information system and improvement of border crossing facilities). The
total project cost was increased to US$12.8 million (excluding taxes) versus a US$9.6 million original cost
estimate.

Project Benefits

The project expected three types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times
at border crossings and inland terminals; (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project; and (iii) transport savings linked to the road component.

Trade and Transport Cost Reductions. The savings on transport costs at the Albanian border crossings
and the inland terminal under the project are estimated at US$9.1 million by 2005 versus US$6.8 million at
appraisal. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals have been substantially reduced with an
estimated 62 percent processing time reduction on average for the three pilot sites. Traffic increased faster
than anticipated at those locations (for example from 50 trucks a day in 2001 to 183 in 2004 at the Tirana
clearance facility).

Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The link between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and Customs
revenue collection clearly exist but is difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of other factors
influencing the macro-economic development and trade of the TTFSE countries. Company competitiveness,
in particular their ability to participate in international supply chain, depends nonetheless on their capacity
to assess border transaction cost (direct and time cost) with a fair degree of certainty. Since 2000, Albania,
and other countries involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed strong growth of their trade volumes, although
Albania's trade growth was not as rapid as some of the other countries in the region. In the meantime,
Customs collected revenues increased from US$349 million to US$551 million, despite reductions in tariff
rates, illustrating their ability to better capture legitimate trade. For the purpose of the economic rate of
return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of additional transport benefits linked to increased trade
was added, as per the approach used during appraisal.

Road Components. Both road components had much higher net present value than anticipated due to
higher traffic levels. The estimated net present value at ICR time is US$12 million for this component
compared to US$2.5 million at the time of project appraisal. Traffic level at 6800 and 4000 vehicles per
day respectively versus an estimate of 2000 at appraisal on the Lezhe connection and the Libarzhd-Qafe
Thane bridges underlined the sharp increase in vehicle ownership in Albania that benefited from a
shortening of 6 km of the road and better roads towards Macedonia.




                                                       - 27 -

                      COSTS              BENEFITS

      FY                                                     Net Benefits
                  (in US$ million)     (in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
2001                              0.5                0.0                 -0.5
2002                              3.6                2.3                 -1.3
2003                              4.4                2.5                 -1.9
2004                              3.8                5.1                  1.3
2005                              0.5                4.4                  3.9
2006                                                 4.5                  4.5
2007                                                 3.8                  3.8
2008                                                 3.8                  3.8
2009                                                 3.9                  3.9
2010                                                 4.1                  4.1
2011                                                 4.2                  4.2
2012                                                 4.4                  4.4
2013                                                 4.4                  4.4
2014                                                 4.6                  4.6
2015                                                 4.7                  4.7
2016                                                 4.7                  4.7
2017                                                 4.7                  4.7
Total                            12.8               66.0                 53.3
Internal Rate of                                    59%
Return
Discount Rate                                       12%
NPV @ 12%                         9.1               24.2                 15.1




                                                        - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/1999                    7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1);
                                             TRADE & TRANSPORT
                                             FACILITATION (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)


 Supervision

              12/21/2000                1    LEAD SPECIALIST (1)              S               S
              03/16/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S               S
                                             CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
              11/06/2001                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); SENIOR CUSTOMS
                                             SPECIAL (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              01/26/2002                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1); SR.
                                             CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1)
              09/16/2002                1    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1);
              09/16/2002                3    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             SR REGION COORDINATOR
                                             (1); PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
              05/18/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
              12/13/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             REGIONAL ANCHOR (1);
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
              05/15/2004                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             REGIONAL ANCHOR (1);
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
              11/04/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             REGIONAL ANCHOR (1)
              3/2005                    1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S

 ICR
              3/2005                    1     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);




                                              - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     N/A                           92.5
  Supervision                                    N/A                         498.8
  ICR                                            N/A                           20.0
  Total                                          N/A                         611.3
SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated August 2005.

5. Project Appraisal Document for Albania Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project,
   dated October 5, 2000 (Report No. 20828-ALB).




                                                 - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution



                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                 ALBANIA
             TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE
                                     (I.D.A. CREDIT No. 2734-ALB)

Prepared by the
Project Implementation Team (PIT)
TTFSE
Ministry of Finance

Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry

1.1   Original Objective:

The objectives of the project were to:

(i)   Reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii)  Reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

The project formed part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
(TTFSE) that aimed to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control
agencies in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, and Romania. The Program was the result of a collaborative effort among the Government of
Albania, the Bank, the European Union (EU) and the United States of America (USA).

These objectives were expected to be achieved by: (i) supporting Customs reform; (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between private and public parties at regional, national and
local levels; (iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing
infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated
set of new customs procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques,
supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms for agencies at border crossings.

1.2   Revised Objectives

The objectives were not revised during the Project.

1.3   Original Components

The project consisted of five components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. These were
standard components replicated in all TTFSE projects. The MoF and GDC established the PIT with the
appropriate staff, including project director, financial expert and accountant, as well as an international
procurement advisor.

1.4   Revised Components



                                                   - 34 -

The components were not revised.

2.     Achievement of Objectives

2.1    Outcome/Achievement of Objectives

In general the project met its original development objectives. Through the components described above it
has contributed on reducing non-tariff costs to trade and transport and smuggling and corruption at border
crossings. For example, the implementation of physical components has improved the working conditions
of    customs    front  line   officers,   creating  a   proper   environment    and    space  for  vehicle
circulation/inspection/processing. The implementation of ICIS contributed to accelerate the speed in
processing customs clearance, faster transmission of statistics and risk analyses to/from HQ.

As described in the chapters of the main report, General Directorate of Customs improved its performance,
but has to be noted that not all the targets were met. The main reason for that was because of the delays in
implementing ASYCUDA, which was supported by the EU and its Customs Assistance Mission in
Albania. The start up of the ASYCUDA installation at the HQ and the pilot sites started at least 2 years
beyond the planned date, despite the MoF/GDC pressures. The GDC expects to have full benefits of the
ASYCUDA by the end of this year, time when it will be installed in all customs sites in Albania.

 In addition, GDC is starting now to use the risk and selectivity module (ModSel). A team of GDC staff is
completing data entry to fill in the module. The Risk Department has been working since July 2004, with
help of CAM-Albania, on the creation of risk profiles and a methodology on how these profiles will work.
It is implemented in Tirana, Durres and Qafe Thane customs sites, to continue this year with all customs
houses in Albania.

The Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) is on of the most important achievements, and it has
resulted in shortening the time for processing customs declarations. Now the HQ (backbone system) is
directly linked with customs houses, providing and receiving data from them and inputting fresh
information in the HQ system (Modsel). Regardless the achievement mentioned above, TTFSE PIT has
faced problems to make the GDC facilitate and help the progress in implementation, and it is related, in our
opinion with the level of ownership.

2.2    Institutional Development Impact

The project facilitated the implementation of the Customs Code, with simplified customs and border
inspection procedures, such as risk analysis and selectivity procedures (use of ModSel),and introduction of
green channel. Customs staff received training in ASYCUDA and on using modern equipment, with new
procedures and new systems which were tested during the life of the project. However, since the project
was not implemented by GDC, the institutional development impact was only modest.

Monitoring the performance of Customs administration using key performance indicators has led to
substantial institutional development impact. Even though these indicators were initially tested on three
pilot sites, they are now replicated in three other Customs stations, and would be extended very soon to all
the Customs stations in Albania. The information system (ICIS) introduced by the project will also increase
Customs Department's capacity to make effective use of its financial resources.

During the project implementation were established local project teams, which were not fully formalized,


                                                     - 35 -

with representatives of each administration working at border/customs sites (Customs, Veterinary, Police,
Phyto-sanitary). It is important this type of cooperation continues after the project life. Since these teams
were not formalized, it is hard to believe that they will continue to exist.

In our opinion, all the project components were satisfactory implemented, but the Customs still need for
more support, especially on the institutional side. The institutions need to continue the reform, and change
gradually its focus from generating revenues to facilitating trade and commerce.

3.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

3.1   Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency

Positive Factors

(i)   Ownership of the GOA, in the frame of SAA initiative with the EU

(ii)  The support of the EU and US to the project was crucial.

(iii) The RSC was an important institution, at least at the beginning.

(v)   Moving the ALBAPRo from the Ministry of Economy to the Chamber of Commerce

Negative Factors

(i)   A better cooperation and coordination among donors, especially with the EU, in order to match
      everybody's agenda with the objectives and targets of the GoA. Delayed implementation of
      ASYCUDA is an example of it.

3.2   Factors within government control or implementation agency

Positive Factors

(i)   High ownership from MOF. The Minister of Finance was the Project Coordinator and was directly
involved in the project.

(ii)  Cooperation from some agencies. The project benefited from a high level of cooperation from various
      agencies. For example, the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade was instrumental in
      creating Alba-Pro Committee and it helped in moving the Committee from the Ministry to the
      Chamber of Commerce. Similarly, the Prime Minister's Office was proactive in passing relevant
      Acts and resolutions for promoting the project.

Negative Factors

(i)   Ownership of the Beneficiaries was not always at the appropriate level. This because they saw the
      PIU not as a consultant working for them/helping them to implement the project, which was and is to
      their direct benefit. Institutional relationship had to be more clear, and within the mandate of the
      respective institutions, in this case GDC and GRD.

(ii)  The Border Police and other agencies at the border points needed a greater support, and more time


                                                     - 36 -

        should have been spent to clarify to them the objectives of the project and the importance of
        cooperation and communication between all parties.

(iii) Reluctance of the customs staff to use new technologies and procedures, as well as to understand on
        that the main objective was to facilitate trade and border crossings, and not to create series of
        obstacles to the traders and transporters. This was partially understood because of the situation in the
        region, geographical position of Albania, and the increased awareness regarding terrorism and
        drug/human trafficking.

4.      Sustainability

Sustainability of the project is highly likely, the GoA and MoF/GDC are committed to continue the reform
and to maintain the achievements. It has to be noted that the process started and supported by the TTFSE
can not be reversed, and the main problem is not to loose momentum. In this context future support of IFIs
is still important.

5.      Lessons Learned

5.1     Project and Program-related Lessons

The cooperation between border agencies is important to facilitate trade and transport. GDC should initiate
the process of sharing its data and information with the other agencies, using the same information system
with different level of access. For example now GDC and Border Police are using two completely different
transmission systems. There are round 10 million USD spend for both systems but they are not connected
and sometimes overlapping infrastructure and investment. Interconnection between these transmittal
systems as well as compatibility of both soft wares they are using is a commitment of the government for
the near future. In this respect further assistance and support by the donors is required.

The continuation of the customs reform, and adoption of standard procedures at border crossings and
customs houses, is a strong key for the future.

6.      Borrower and Bank Performance

6.1     The Bank

The MOF, GRD and GCD are very appreciative of the help, work and advice given to them by the Bank's
staff during the implementation of the Project. The contribution and work of the Task Managers, Mrs.
Anca Dumitrescu and Mr. Artan Guxho, and all their assistants and supporters, and their supervision
missions have contributed greatly to the final success and achievements of the Project.

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was Satisfactory,
especially in view of the setting of the project within a regional program. The identification Process focused
on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the region's trade and transportSectors.

The Bank had maintained good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
During the implementation of the project the Bank team was very proactive, pushing the process forward,
by identifying institutional deficiencies, and helping in addressing them. We are very appreciative of the
work of the procurement and disbursement staff of the Bank team.




                                                      - 37 -

6.2   The Borrower

The borrower's performance in general was satisfactory.

The performance of PIT in project implementation was satisfactory. PIT consisted of competent staff and it
was adequately funded and supported. It was capable of managing the project, under the supervision of and
with the support of the Minister of Finance.

There were no problems related to procurement, disbursement and the quality at delivery of the products.

The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.




                                                 - 38 -

- 39 -

