                     PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                 Report No.: 62320
                              DRC: Emergency Social Action Project Additional Financing 2
 Project Name
 Region                       AFRICA
 Sector                       Other social services (50%); General water, sanitation and flood
                              protection sector (50%)

 Project ID                   P126683
 Parent Project ID            P086874
 Borrower(s)                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
                              Ministry of Finance
                              BP 12997
                              Kinshasa I - Gombe
                              Congo, Democratic Republic of
                              Fax: 243 880 23 81
 Implementing Agency          Fonds Social de la RDC
                              11, Avenue Lukusa (Immeuble ex CEI)
                              Congo, Democratic Republic of
                              Tel: (243) 99 819 3585
                              fondsocialdrc@fondsocial.cd
 Environment Category         [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared            May 30, 2011
 Date of Appraisal            May 17, 2011
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval       June 28, 2011

1. Background

        After several years of a brutal civil war, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has
experienced important political and economic gains in the past decade. A broad coalition
government has implemented policies following the five priorities underpinning the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) 1, leading to a 6.7% average annual growth rate in the GDP
between 2003 and 2008. The country’s social situation however remains fragile, and poverty
widespread. DRC is ranked 168 out of 179 countries in the 2010 Human Development Index.
The large scale displacement, violence and human rights abuses experienced over decades of
conflict have caused tremendous suffering and deterioration of the social fabric, overburdening
or breaking up families and traditional social safety nets.

        Original grant: The original grant for the Emergency Social Action Project or PASU
(H120-DRC) was approved by the Board on October 26, 2004 for an expected completion date
of September 30, 2008. PASU aimed to provide critical and timely support to help mitigate the
social and humanitarian impact of 30 years of civil war and mismanagement. This assistance was
expected to facilitate the continued implementation of economic reform, political reunification,
and durable peace. The project became effective on September 26, 2005, and was subsequently
extended twice on government request. The current closing date is March 31, 2013. The project
development objective (PDO) was to improve access of the poor to social and economic services
and increase the availability and management of development resources at the community level
through the following components: (i) sub-projects targeting the construction and rehabilitation
of community-based and medium-scale social and economic infrastructure nationwide as well as
piloting of income generating activities; (ii) capacity building for government agencies and
NGOs involved in the implementation; (iii) provision of scholarships to increase enrollment in
universities and a literacy program, including the provision of community libraries and training
in library management; and (iv) project coordination and management.

        First additional financing: The first additional grant was approved on March 30, 2010 in
the amount of US$ 35 million and became effective on October 30, 2011, for an expected closing
date of March 31, 2013. The PDO remained unchanged from the original project. However, the
component on education grants and community libraries (component 3 of the original project)
and activities related to medium and large-scale infrastructure (under component 1) was dropped
because planned activities would be completed under the original grant. In addition, a sub-
component on income generation was redesigned to provide a more appropriate response to the
high unemployment among mining workers in the Katanga province through labor-intensive
public works. The results framework was revised to reflect these changes.

        Project performance and status of implementation: The project is executed by the Social
Fund of DRC (FSRDC), a public organization created in 2002 to improve the living conditions
of the poor by making available to communities the financial and human resources necessary for
implementing self-selected sub-projects. The project started with very slow disbursement rates.
In 2005, however, a new coordination team established strong fiduciary functions, procedures
and program management processes, and the implementation pace picked up. Overall
performance of the original project and its additional financing was rated satisfactory during the
last supervision mission in March 2011.


2. Objectives

         The development objective of the project would be unchanged: to improve access of the
poor to social and economic services and increase the availability and management of
development resources at the community level. Performance indicators have been updated to
reflect the additional funds being made available.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

The rationale for the Additional Financing is to scale up the coverage of activities, and therefore
intensify project benefits, in the Seke Banza territory in the Bas-Congo province. PASU has a
rolling approach to its support to communities. While the first additional financing targeted in
particular artisanal miners in the Katanga province, the proposed Additional Financing will
target about 50 communities in the Seke Banza Territory in the Bas-Congo province to
compensate for the fact that until now the original Project has not adequately addressed the needs
of these communities.
4. Description

        The proposed additional grant would help finance the costs associated with scaling up
successful activities of a well performing project that has led to substantial increase in access
to basic social services. A total of US$ 6.8 million will be allocated to this second additional
financing. The activities to be financed under the proposed additional grant comprise: (i)
rehabilitation and construction of small-scale community based infrastructure; (ii) capacity
building primarily for beneficiary communities and local executing agencies involved in
project implementation; and (iii) project coordination and management. Although the project
scope will continue to be national, the proposed additional financing grant will only target an
estimated 65 communities in the Seke Banza Territory in the Bas-Congo province.

       Outcome indicators will be similar to the outcomes expected from the first additional
financing since the major project components will remain the same, and will primarily include
increased access to basic social services as a result from the project.

5. Financing
 Source:                                                                                 ($m.)
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                       0.47
 International Development Association (IDA)                                               6.8
                                                                         Total            7.27

6. Implementation

         The second Additional Financing will retain the institutional arrangements put in place
for the implementation of the original project and the first additional financing. The Social Fund
will continue to house the Project Implementation Unit responsible for project implementation,
including selecting and funding community proposals as well as selecting and sub-contracting
local executing agencies to work directly with communities. The FSRDC will supervise
activities from its provincial office in Matadi, Bas Congo and its national coordination office in
Kinshasa. The FSRDC has established a reputation for quality implementation and satisfactory
financial management and procurement capacity.

7. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                 Yes                    No

 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                        x
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                      X
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                          X
 Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                           X
 Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        x
 Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                              x
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                               X
 Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                        X
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*                                                                 X
    Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                                         X


8. Contact point at World Bank and Borrower

Borrower/Client/Recipient
Ministry of Finance
BP 12997
Kinshasa I - Gombe
Congo, Democratic Republic of
Fax: 243 880 23 81

Implementing Agency
Contact: Ruphin Bo-elongo Kimuemue
Title: Coordonateur General
Tel: (243) 99 819 3585
Email: ruphinboel@yahoo.fr

9. For more information contact:
      The InfoShop
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
      Washington, D.C. 20433
      Telephone: (202) 458-4500
      Fax: (202) 522-1500
      Email: pic@worldbank.org
      Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




*
 By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties’ claims on the
disputed areas
