Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6579 
Project Name 
DRC: Emergency Social Action Project Additional Financing 2 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (50%); General water, sanitation and flood 
protection sector (50%) 
 
Project ID 
P126683 
Parent Project ID 
P086874 
Borrower(s) 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
Ministry of Finance 
Boulevard du 30 juin 
BP 12997 
Congo, Democratic Republic of 
Fax: 243 880 23 81 
Implementing Agency 
Fonds Social de la RDC 
11, Avenue Lukusa (Immeuble ex CEI) 
Congo, Democratic Republic of 
Tel: (243) 99 819 3585 
fondsocialdrc@fondsocial.cd
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 3, 2011 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 17, 2011 
Date of Board Approval 
June 23, 2011 
1. Background 
 
After several years of a brutal civil war, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has 
experienced important political and economic gains in the past decade. A broad coalition 
government has implemented policies following the five priorities underpinning the Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) 1, leading to a 6.7% average annual growth rate in the GDP 
between 2003 and 2008. The country’s social situation however remains fragile, and poverty 
widespread. DRC is ranked 168 out of 179 countries in the 2010 Human Development Index.. 
The large scale displacement, violence and human rights abuses experienced over decades of 
conflict have caused tremendous suffering and deterioration of the social fabric, overburdening 
or breaking up families and traditional social safety nets. 
 
Original grant
:
The original grant for the Emergency Social Action Project or PASU 
(H120-DRC) was approved by the Board on October 26, 2004 for an expected completion date 
of September 30, 2008.  PASU aimed to provide critical and timely support to help mitigate the 
social and humanitarian impact of 30 years of civil war and mismanagement. This assistance was 
expected to facilitate the continued implementation of economic reform, political reunification, 
and durable peace. The project became effective on September 26, 2005, and was subsequently 
extended twice on government request.  The current closing date is March 31, 2013.  The project 
development objective (PDO) was to improve access of the poor to social and economic services 
Page  2
and increase the availability and management of development resources at the community level 
through the following components: (i) sub-projects targeting the construction and rehabilitation 
of community-based and medium-scale social and economic infrastructure nationwide as well as 
piloting of income generating activities; (ii) capacity building for government agencies and 
NGOs involved in the implementation; (iii) provision of scholarships to increase enrollment in 
universities and a literacy program, including the provision of community libraries and training 
in library management; and (iv) project coordination and management.  
 
First additional financing
:
The first additional grant was approved on March 30, 2010 in 
the amount of US$ 35 million and became effective on October 30, 2011, for an expected closing 
date of March 31, 2013.  The PDO remained unchanged from the original project.  However, the 
component on education grants and community libraries (component 3 of the original project) 
and activities related to medium and large-scale infrastructure (under component 1) was dropped 
because planned activities would be completed under the original grant.  In addition, a sub-
component on income generation was redesigned to provide a more appropriate response to the 
high unemployment among mining workers in the Katanga province through labor-intensive 
public works.  The results framework was revised to reflect these changes.  
 
Project performance and status of implementation:
The project is executed by the Social 
Fund of DRC (FSRDC), a public organization created in 2002 to improve the living conditions 
of the poor by making available to communities the financial and human resources necessary for 
implementing self-selected sub-projects.  The project started with very slow disbursement rates.  
In 2005, however, a new coordination team established strong fiduciary functions, procedures 
and program management processes, and the implementation pace picked up. Overall 
performance of the original project and its additional financing was rated satisfactory during the 
last supervision mission in February 2011.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective of the project would be unchanged
:
to improve access of the 
poor to social and economic services and increase the availability and management of 
development resources at the community level. Performance indicators have been updated to 
reflect the additional funds being made available. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for the Additional Financing is to scale up the coverage of activities, and therefore 
intensify project benefits, in the Inga area in the Bas-Congo province. This is to compensate for 
the fact that until now the Social Emergency Action Project (PASU), including its first 
Additional Financing, has not adequately addressed the needs of the communities living in the 
Inga area.   
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed additional grant would help finance the costs associated with scaling up 
successful activities of a well performing project that has led to substantial increase in access 
Page  3
to basic social services. A total of US$ 5 million will be allocated to this second additional 
financing. The activities to be financed under the proposed additional grant comprise: (i) 
rehabilitation and construction of small-scale community based infrastructure; (ii) capacity 
building primarily for beneficiary communities and local executing agencies; and (iii) project 
coordination and management. Although the project scope will continue to be national, the 
proposed additional financing grant will only target the Inga area in the Bas-Congo province.  
 
Outcome indicators will be similar to the outcomes expected from the first additional 
financing since the major project components will remain the same, and will primarily include 
increased access to basic social services as a result from the project (see Results Framework in 
Annex I for the detailed list of outcome indicators). 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.35 
International Development Association (IDA) 
5 
 Total
5.35 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The second Additional Financing will retain the institutional arrangements put in place 
for the implementation of the original project and the first additional financing. The Social Fund 
will continue to house the Project Implementation Unit responsible for project implementation, 
including selecting and funding community proposals as well as selecting and sub-contracting 
local executing agencies to work directly with communities. The FSRDC will supervise 
activities from its provincial office in Matadi, Bas Congo and its national coordination office in 
Kinshasa. The FSRDC has established a reputation for quality implementation and satisfactory 
financial management and procurement capacity. 
 
7.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) x 
 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)  
x 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
x
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 
x 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) x   
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) x 
 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)  
x 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)  
x 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
x
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)  
x 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  4
8.  Contact point at World Bank and Borrower 
 
Borrower/Client/Recipient 
Ministry of Finance 
Boulevard du 30 juin 
BP 12997 
Congo, Democratic Republic of 
Fax: 243 880 23 81 
 
Implementing Agency 
Contact: Ruphin Bo-elongo Kimuemue 
Title: Coordonateur 
General 
 
Tel: (243) 99 819 3585 
Email: ruphinboel@yahoo.fr 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
