Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8636
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2144-KO)
May 14, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document has a restricded distibution and may be used by recipients only In the pedonnance of
their officla duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World B_k authoration



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -      Won
US$1              -      Won 874 (Completion)
US$1              °      Won 710 (Appraisal)
ACRONYMS
CNB      -    Citizens National Bank
DFC      -    Development Finance Company
ERR      -    Economic Rate of Return
ELD      -    Foreign Loan Department
FRI      -    Financial Rate of Return
1DB      -    Korea Development Bank
KLB      -    Korea Long-term Credit Bank
PCR      -    Project Completion Report
SMIB     -    Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMMIP    -    Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project
SSI      -    Small Scale Industry
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FM OUNCUxAL WI ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC J0433
USA
Olhte of D.ftOW-CenwAi
Opeatn tttiN-
may 14, 1990
MEHMRANDUH 0O THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TIE PRE8IDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Korea
Second Citizens National Bank Project
(Loan 2144-KO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Korea - Second Citizens National bank Project (Loan
2144-KO)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restficted distribution and may be used by recipints only in the pa fm
of their ol6cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank auibeiati.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
SECOND CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2144-KO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .................     ..      .    ........... *.****...1
EVALUATION SUMMY ...........................          .................   iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BARR'S PERSPECTIVE ..............          1
1.  Project Identity ...  .....................                         1
2.  Background          ...*.** ...............*. ..  O..*              1
3.  Bank Lending Strategy .........  .........  ...... .. ........      2
4.  Project Institution .... ......                .     ......         2
5.  Project Objectives and Description ................. ..             3
6.  Project Design            .     ..........*.*                       3
7.  Project Performance ..                      ......................  3
8.  Project Sustainability ..............#...........                   5
9.  Bank and Borrower Performance .................    ............     6
10. Conclusions ....................     ....        * .......................  6
PART Is:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .........          8
I.  INTRODUCTION ..............................................         8
II.  1PE_F.NVIRONMENT       ...........................................  9
The Industrial Sector ........ . ..                               9
SMI Sector .............................................   ......  10
-Il.  CNB'S ROLE AND THE BANK LOAN OBJECTIVES ...................         12
IV.  UTILIZATION OF THE LOAN ...................   *.*  ..........       14
Loan Utilization ..........................................      14
Subborrower Characteristics .................................    14
Subproject Characteristics         ..............................  14
Operational and Economic Performance of Subprojects .....        16
V.  INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS ........     .............................    18
Organization, Management and Staffing ...................        18
VI.  OPERATIONAL AND FIRANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF CNB ..............         22
Operational Performance ............. .. .. .. ..........        22
Resource Mobilization           .    ...........................  23
Financial Performance ..............................             24
Quality of Loan Portfolio ............................. ...      25
VII. CONCLUSIONS .............................................           27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
bate No.
PART II ANNE%ES
1   Interest Rate Structure, 1980-1987   ............                   28
2    List of Shareholders ........   .     ....    .......**...         32
3    Staff Positions .....      ......................................   33
4    Organizational Chart ....**. ** *       ....    ........... ..     34
5-1  Schedule of Estimated vs. Actual Disbursements
(Loan 2144-KO) .......** ..... .......  .......09*..... ......   35
5-2  Schedule of Estimated vs. Actual Disbursements
(Loan 2215-3-KO) .................. ............. .........      36
6-1  Details of Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2144-KO ........        37
6-2  Details of Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2215-3-RO    ...        38
7-1  List of Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2144-KG ...........        39
7-2  List of Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2215-3-KG .........        52
8-1  Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under
Loan 2144-KO ................  **,..*****..*.*..**.......,       57
8-2  Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under
Loan 2215-3-RO ..e.        .................... *****.... *......t..  70
9-1  Financial and Economic Indicators of Subprojects
Financed Under Loan 2144-KO ................   ....... .....     75
9-2  Financial and Economic Indicators of Subprojects
Financed Under Loan 2215-3-KG O... ..........   ...........      88
10-1 Current Status of Subprojects Financed Under
Loan 2144-KG ...                                                 93
10-2 Current Status of Subprojects Financed Under
Loan 2215-3-RG ........ *.....**.. .*... ...                   106
11   Summary of Operations, 1982-87 ...........111
12   Projected and Actual Balance Sheets, 1982-87 ...........          112
13   Projected and Actual Income Ststements, 1982-87 ...........       114
14   Projected and Actual Financial Ratios, 1982-87  ..........        115
15  Resource Position .....*,*********.**,**, *.*..........            116
16  Collection Performance, 1982-87    ...........................     117
17  Analysis of Loans in Arrears, 1982-87         .....................  118
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION       ...............................  119
1.   Related Bank Loans and Credits         ............................  119
2.   Project Timetable .................      .....................     119
3.   Cumulative and Actual Disbursements         .......................  119
4.   Proiect Imilementation
A. Purpose, Sectoral and Geographical Distritbution
of Subprojects       .......... ......      . .$04  ...     120
B. Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under
Loan 2144-KO .........     ...............................  121
C. Economic Indicators of Subprojects Financed
Under Loan 2144-KO *.................. .. ....              123
D. Financial Indicators of Subprojects Financed
Under Loan 2144-KO ............  ...... .125



TABLE OP CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Pagne No.
PART III (cont'd.)
5. CNB'8 Financial Performance
A. Projected and Actual Income Statements, 1982-87    ........    127
B. Projected and Actual Balance Sheets, 1982-87 ............      128
C. Projected and Actual Financial Ratios, 1982-87    .........    130
D. Analysis of Loans in Arrears, 1982-87 ..................       131
E. Collection Performance ....   ................ ..   ..........  132
6. Status of Covenants       ........    ............  *              133
7.  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs ...*....**.............*** *.......             134
B. Missions ....*.........*.. ...*   ...............  ..          135



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2144-KO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Citizens
National Bank (CUB) Project in Korea, for which Loan 2144-KO in the amount of
US$30.0 million vas approved on May 13, 1982.   The loan was closed on
December 31, 1986, as forecast, with about US$1.8 million of the loan amount
undisbursed and cancelled. The date of final disbursement was June 16, 1986.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department II, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III). During a supervision mission on a follow-up project in March 1989, the
mission discussed parts I and III of the report with the Borrower. The mis-
sion received minor comments which have been incorporated in the report.
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during a Bank supervision
mission in February 1988. The Borrower agreed to prepare a combined PCR for
Loans 2144-KO and 2215-KO using the same format and tables which were used
for Loan 1829-KO (CNB I). The Borrower completed the combined PCR in July
1988, and it has been included as Part It to this report.
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; CU annual
reports and project data provided by the Borrower.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND CTIZENS NTIONAL BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2144-KO)
EVALUATION SU  :&X
1.   The Bank loan of US$ 30 million to the Citizens National Bank (CNB),
aimed at assisting the development of Korea's small scale industry (SSI)
sector, was approved on May 13, 1982. It followed an earlier loan (Loan
1829-KO) to CNB, one of the main financial institutions responsible for the
sector (para 3.01).
2.    CNB was established by the Government of Korea in 1962 as a
specialized commercial bank to meet the financial needs of the general
populace and small enterprises, and to mobilize household savings. By the
time of project preparation, CNB had used its extensive branch network to
become Korea's largest mobilizer of deposits and was virtually independent
of borrowed funds from the Government and Bank of Korea, which was unique
among the Government-owned banks. However, the resources mobilized were
underutilized due to Government-imr-sed credit ceiling regulations and
CNB's own insufficient institutional capacity for long-term lending.
Consequently, CNB carried an unusually high surplus liquid funds, and its
operations mostly comprised working capital and consumer loans of
relatively short maturities. But with the start of Korea's financial
sector liberalization, particularly the abolition of the overall credit
ceiling in January 1982, CNB was able to use its large domestic currency
resources more efficiently and to play a more active role as a development
bank supporting SSI (para 4.01-4.03).
3.    The objectives of the second CNB project were to support the overall
development of SSIs and assist CNB's institutional transition to become a
more active financing institution for Korea's SSI sector. To achieve these
objectives, the project provided a line of credit to CNB totalling US$30
million for SSIs. Also, the project encouraged CNB to: (a) upgrade its
term lending capabilities, particularly at the branch level; (b) expand and
lengthen the maturity of its local currency term lending; and (c) diversify
its sources of foreign currency resources (para 5.01-5.02).
4.    The project objectives were largely realized.  The loan proceeds were
committed and disbursed as estimated at appraisal, and the loan was closed
on the original closing Date, December 31, 1986. The loan
financed 320 subprojects, the financial and economic impacts of which were
satisfactory. The proportion of term lending to SSIs in CNB's loan
portfolio increased from 45X to 54X during 1982-86. The share of equipment
loans in its total SMI term loan portfolio, which had been particularly low
at 14X in 1982, increased to 20X in 1986 (para 7.01). During the project



- iv -
period, CNB diverslfied its foreign financing sources by beginning to tap
funds available from Japan's Overseas Economic Development Fund (OECF), but
it was unable to enter into foreign commercial borrowings because of
unfavorable market conditions (para 1.04).
5.       The quality of CNB's portfolio was excellent, except in 1985 and
1986 when collection rates for foreign currency equipment loans temporarily
dropped to 84% and 77%, respectively, due to increased debt service needs
as a result of the depreciation of the Won, and the relative slowdown of
Korean economic growth.   CNB's financial position remained satisfactory
throughout the term of the project, except in 1982-83 when CNB incurred
losses totalling Won 44 billion, which caused its long-term debt to equity
ratio to rise to 13:1 in 1984, exceeding the covenanted ratio of 10:1.
These losses were due to adjustments in the Government's interest rate
policy, which lowered rate ceilings for lendings and deposits to 10% p.a.
and 8% p.a., respectively. While the lending rate reduction was effective
immediately, rates for existing savings deposits were unchanged until
maturity, with many as high as 18% p.a. As the existing savings deposits
matured, CNB's profitability improved, and in 1985 CNB became profitable
again (para 7.02).
6.    The project did not succeed in achieving one of the major
institutional development objectives under the project, i.e. to strengthen
the project appraisal capabilities of CNB's branch offices.    When
responsibility for subloan appraisal was shifted to branch offices, the
quality of CNB's subloan appraisal became uneven, particularly in economic
evaluation and market analysis. The Bank also expected that CNB would
adopt more rigorous and comprehensive project appraisal procedures for
domestic currency equipment loans. However, this development banking
approach to project appraisal, which focuses on the assessment of a
project's long-term viability, never took root in CNB. Instead, CNB
continued to rely exclusively on the traditional commercial banking
approach, focusing on a subborrower's creditworthiness, collateral and
credit record. In retrospect, the Bank's expectation was unrealistic. CNB
felt that many of its subloans to SSI were too small to warrant such a
thorough analysis, which they regarded as too costly and time-consuming.
Given the excellent quality of the loan portfolio, CNB was not convinced of
the need for more comprehensive project analysis. The experience under
this project suggests that the Bank needs to evaluate carefully the
magnitude of likely gains and practical constraints when requesting
comprehensive subproject appraisals of DFCs, particularly those which
primarily cater to SMIs. The Bank also expected that CNB would strengthen
its research activities, particularly subsector and market studies.
However, this did not materialize either (para 7.05-7.06).
7.    The project made significant contributions to the sustainability of
CNB and the SSI sector. CNB appears to be a viable financial institution
and as the Korean financial sector is gradually liberalized, it has shown
its capability in making significant contributions to the development of
the SSI sector (para 8.01).



- v -
8.    On the whole, this project was well prepared and implemented.  This
project was the last of a series of Bank operations primarily aimed at
institutional development of a single financial institution. After this
project, Bank's lending strategy for the development finance companies
(DFCs) in Korea had a sector-wide coverage, focusing on specific sector-
wide issues and involving many DFCs in a single operation (para 10.05).



PROJECT COCLTION REPORT
SECOND CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2144-RO)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM TE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Project Identity
Name            : Second Citizens National Bank Project
Loan Number    : 2144-KO
RVP Unit        : Asia Region
Country         : Republic of Korea
Sector          :  Industry
Subsector          Small and Medium Industry
2.       Background
2.01     The transition of the Korean industrial sector during the 1970s
from an emphasis on labor-intensive manufactures toward products requiring
higher levels of technology and labor skills was pursued too abruptly and
led to overinvestment in heavy industry at the expense of the light
manufacturing sector. With underinvestment in light industries, the level
of productivity and technology in the small and medium industry (SI)
sector remained stagnant, resulting in an erosion of domestic and
international competitiveness among SMIs. The Government sought to address
this problem during its Fifth Five-year Plan (1982-86) through increased
financial assistance to SNIs for modernization of their facilities,
encouragement of selected financial institutions to provide venture capital
in support of technology-intensive firms, and expansion of technical
assistance services to SKI. This project supported the Government's
efforts in this regard by channeling funds to SSIs through the Citizens
National Bank (CNB).
2.02     In the Korean manufacturing sector, the small scale industries
(SSIs) are those employing less than 100 workers. In 1979, they accounted
for nearly 89% of all manufacturing establishments, 27X of manufacturing
employment and 18% of value-added. Financing of SSI investments was
provided by a number of institutions, including commercial banks as well as
two specialized government-owned banks, the Small and Medium Industry Bank
(SMIB) and CNB. Since the commercial banks extended only short-term working
capital loans and SMIB was authorized to finance firms with up to 300
employees ( up to 500 employees for selected subsectors ), CNB was the main
potential source of long-term capital for small enterprises. However, at
the time of project preparation, CNB had not significantly developed its
term lending capabilities, and term lending to SSIs was inadequate relative
to the needs of the sector. The project was therefore aimed at expanding
term lending to SSIs while at the same time strengthening CNB's capacity to
do so.



3.       Bank Lending Strategy
3.01     This project was a follow-up to an earlier CNB-implemented project
(Loan 1829-KO approved on May 7, 1980) aimed at strengthening CNB's
capacity to handle foreign currency loans. Although the Bank had
originally planned to extend a second lrie of credit to CNO as part of the
Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project (SMMI, Loan 2215-KO) which was
subsequently approved in December 1982, a strong demand for foreign
currency equipment loans prompted CNB to request a new line of credit ahead
of SMMI. The Bank met this request and processed the loan expeditiously,
with project appraisal and loan approval (on May 13, 1982) only five months
and 12 months, respectively, after CNB's initial inquiry (Table 2 of Part
III). With the country's continued current and trade account deficits, the
Bank and the Asian Development Bank were still important sources of foreign
exchange resources for Korea in the early 1980s.
3.02     This project was also the last of a series of Bank operations
primarily aimed at irititutional development of a single financial
institution. Under that strategy, the Bank had extended four loans to the
Korea Development Bank (KDB), eight to the Korea Long-term Credit Bank
(KLB), and four to SMIB, all of which became mature institutions. After
this project, the Bank's lending strategy for development finance
corporations (DFCs) in Korea had a sector-wide coverage, focusing on
specific developmental constraints of the sector and involving many DFCs in
a single operation.
4.       ProJect Institution
4.01     CNB was incorporated in 1962 under the Citizens National Bank Act
and began operations in 1963 as a consolidated body of a number of small
mutual savings companies. The consolidation of mutual savings companies
was to set up a broad-based financial institution to cater to the financial
needs of the general populace and small businesses (usually less than 100
workers) and attract small household savings as part of a nationai effort
to mobilize domestic resources for economic development. The CNB Act
empowers CNB to conduct all activities normally carried out by commercial
banks, and as a result CNB provides a wide range of services to its clients
including: a complete package of deposit account services; credit card
business; loans to the general populace for financing housing and
education; and provision of finance to SSIs for working capital and
acquisition of equipment and other fixed assets through its equipment and
working capital loans, overdrafts, and discounting of trade bills.
4.02     CNB stands out in the Korean financial system as the largest
mobilizer of deposits.  At end-1981, its total deposits accounted for 10.4%
of aggregate deposits of the banking system.  Unlike commercial banks and
other specialized banks, CNB's dependence on borrowed funds (from the Bank
of Korea, Government and foreign sources) was negligible (0.3% of its total
assets at end-1981) and instead it depended on deposit resources which
accounted for 87% of its total assets.



-3-
4.03     CNB's loan portfolio, however, was still small relative to total
outstanding credit from the Korean financ".al sector (7.6%), and to its own
total assets (59%) since CNB carried an unusually large surplus liquid
funds in the form of deposits with other banks and short-term securities.
Moreover, its loans were for the most part short-term. In the context of
the gradual liberalization of the Korean financial sector, CNB's large
resource base and extensive branch network made it well placed to make a
significant contribution to the development of the SSI sector.
5.       Project Objectives and Description
5.01     The Second CNB Project was expected to: (a) augment CNB's ability
to provide long-term foreign currency resources in support of the
modernization and greater efficiency of production in the SSI sector; (b)
assist CNB to move prudently toward term transformation of a portion of its
substantial short-term deposits; (c) upgrade CNB's term lending capability,
especially at the branch level; and (d) encourage CNB to diversify its
sources of foreign currency resources.
5.02     The Bank loan of US$30 million was to cover about one-third of
CNB's foreign currency commitments over the two-year period, 1983-84, to
eligible small-scale industries with up to 100 employees. Institutional
development under the ptoject was to be achieved through understandings
reached with CNB that it would implement a Development Strategy for 1982-86
which called for, among other things, expanding its term lending to SSIs,
lengthening the average maturity of its domestic currency equipment loans
through prudent term transformation, diversifying its sources of foreign
currency and intensifying training of branch staff.
6.       Project Design
6.01     Following successful implementation of the first loan to CNB, this
operation represented the second phdse of Bank assistance to CNB's
institutional development, the primary goal of which was to strengthen
CNB's development banking capabilities. In view of gradual liberalization
of the Korean financial sector and CNB's underutilized liquidity, the
agreed development strategy was well focused to lay the foundation for
CNB's increased role in the Korean financial sector in general and in SMI
financing in particular. Project timing and design were therefore
appropriate.
7.       Project Performance
7.01     Credit Operations.  The project objectives were for the most part
realized. The loan proceeds were committed and disbursed as estimated at
appraisal (Table 3 of Part III). The loan was closed in June 1986, six
months prior to the original closing date. The loan financed 320
subprojects, with an average size of US$88,100. About 88% of the loan
proceeds were channelled to smaller SSIs with no more than 50 employees,
comparing favorably with the original target of 50%. The subprojects
financed were largely on target in terms of project costs and the project
implementation schedule. The procurement used in the subprojects had



- 4 -
improved significantly in comparison with those under the first loan. The
regional and subsectoral distribution of subprojects were satisfactory.
Ex-post financial and economic rates of return (FRRs and ERRs) were both
satisfactory, estimated in the ranges of 20% to 30%, and 29% to 48% for
FRRs and ERRs, respectively (Tables 4,5 and 6 of Part III). Based on a
sample survey of 138 subprojects, the average cost of permanent jobs
created was about US$ 18,000, in line with the appraisal estimate.
7.02     CNB's portfolio and financial management were sound.  The quality
of CNB's portfolio was excellent, with collection rates of 90-99% in all
categories of loans except foreign currency equipment loans in 1985 and
1986 when the rates temporarily dropped to 84% and 77%, respectively. This
was mainly due to increased debt service needs as a result of the
depreciation of the Won, and the relative slowdown of Korean economic
growth. CNB's financial condition was generally satisfactory throughout
the term of the project. It did, however, incur operating losses in 1982-
83, totaling Won 44 billion. This was due to adjustments in the
Government's interest rate policy introduced in June 1982, which lowered
the rate ceilings for lendings and deposits to 10% p.a. and 8% p.a.,
respectively. While the lending rate reduction was effective immediately,
the rates for existing deposits were unchanged until maturity, with mary as
high as 18% p.a. As the existing deposits matured, its profitability
improved and CNB became profitable in 1985 and thereafter, but the losses
incurred caused its long-term debt to equity ratio to rise to 13:1 in 1984,
thus violating the covenanted ratio of 10:1. This was corrected in 1987
through restored profitability and an inject%a.. of fresh equity.
7.03     Institutional Strengthening Objectives.  The proportion of term
lending in CNB's overall loan portfo'io to SSIs Increased to 54% in 1986
from 45% in 1982. During the same period, the share of equipment loans in
CNB's overall term loan portfolio to SSIs (i.e., its fixed asset financing)
also increased from 14% to 20%. The average maturity of domestic currency
equipment loans increased from 1.5 years to 4.7 years during this period.
7.04     During the project period, CNB began to tap another source of
foreign financing, aside from those provided by the World Bank and the
Asian Development Bank, by borrowing from Japan's Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund. CNB was, however, unable to enter into foreign
commercial borrowings due to unattractive market conditions.
7.05     One of the major institutional development objectives under the
project was to strengthen the project appraisal and supervision
capabilities of CNB's branch offices, which was not achieved. It had also
been hoped that CNB would begin to apply the same rigorous and
comprehensive project appraisal procedures used for its foreign currency
equipment loans to its local currency equipment loans. Again, this goal was
not fully achieved. CNB trained its staff as agreed with the Bank, and
gradually shifted authority for subloan approval from its headquarters to
qualified branch offices. Thereafter, the quality of CNB's appraisal of
Bank-financed subloans became uneven. Economic evaluation became generally
inadequate and market analysis weak. In a number of cases, the traditional



- 5 -
commercial banking approach to project appraisal, focusing on subborrowers'
creditworthiness, collateral and credit record, continued to have a
dominant influence in project selection. In the evaluation of local
currency equipment loans, the development banking appraisal approach
(focusing on an assessment of the project's long-term viability) never took
root in CNB. As Korea's balance of payments improved in the mid-1980s, the
importance of CNB's Foreign Loan Department (FLD), where most of the staff
trained in project evaluation were deployed, decreased significantly in
size and eventually merged into CNB's International Finance Department.
Former FLD staff members who were knowledgeable in project analysis were
reassigned to other units which exclusively relied on commercial credit
analysis in loan decision making. In addition, the Bank expected that CNB
would strengthen its research activities, particularly subsector and market
studies. However, with the growth of industrial research and extension
institutions in Korea, CNB's research activities were gradually curtailed.
This decision reflected CNB's efforts to reduce administrative costs in
response to the difficult financial situation in 1982-83, and to a
continued rapid expansion of its branch network and resulting needs for
experienced staff.
7.06     In retrospect, the Bank's insistence on comprehensive project
appraisal for both local and foreign currency equipment loans appears
impractical. CNB felt that many of their SSI subloans were too small to
warrant such analysis, which they considered too costly and time-consuming.
Often, SSIs could not provide data necessary for analysis, particularly for
economic evaluation. Obtaining price and market information on parts and
components, which constituted majority of the products of CNB clients, were
particularly difficult. Given the excellent quality of its loan portfolio,
CNB was not convinced of the need for additional project analysis. The
experience under the project suggest that the Bank need to assess carefully
likely gains and practical constraints involved when requesting
comprehensive subproject appraisal to DFCs, particularly those which
primarily cater to SMIs.
7.07     CNB's supervision of foreign and domestic currency loans were
satisfactory. Its deposit-taking power provides CNB with effective
supervision tools. Virtually, every CNB client borrowing term loans
maintain deposit account with CNB and also borrow working capital loans.
Thus, contacts of CNB branch offices with borrowers are frequent and
intensive. In addition, CNB developed an effective project monitoring
system. CNB's excellent supervision performance, no doubt, contributed to
the high quality of its loan portfolio.
8.       Project Sustainability
8.01     The project made a significant contribution to the development of
CNB and the Korean SSI sector. The main achievement of the project was
that it enhanced CNB's role in financing investments which improved the
competitiveness, productivity and efficiency of the SSIs.
8.02     CNB appears to be a viable financial institution as evidenced by



its sound portfolio and financial management, the growth of its assets and
its recent recovery from financial losses to profitability. As a
connercial bank, it has established itself as a successful mobilizer of
deposits and a provider of small loans to the SSIs. As the Korean
financial sector is gradually liberalized, CNB has shown that it is well-
equipped to make significant contributions to the development of the SSI
sector.
9.       Bank and Borrower Performance
9.01     The Bank's performance during project preparation, appraisal and
supervision was satisfactory. Project objectives were appropriate at this
particular Juncture in CNB's institutional development, and the project was
processed in a relatively short period of time to respond to Borrower
requirements.   The Bank's relationship with both the Government and CNB
during the project period was close and very productive. the frequency and
composition of supervision missions was adequate (Table 8 of Part III).
CNB's performance was also satisfactory. CNB met all important covenants
included in the Loan Agreement and fulfilled the project's main objective
of expanding term lending to SSIs, particularly equipment loans in both
foreign and local currencies.
10.      Conclusions
10.01    During the 1980s, the Korean SMI sector has accomplished a major
transformation. In the 1970s, the SMI sector was largely regarded as a
source of employment at relatively low cost, and an important, but a
declining source of manufactured exports. Its relative importance in the
Korean economy was decreasing. Despite the Government's support to
revitalize the sector, SMIs were experiencing difficulties to upgrade
technological capabilities and skill levels.
10.02    Today, the SMI sector is one of the most dynamic and promising
sector in the economy. SMIs play a vital role in the product and process
innovations, job creation and industrial specialization and
diversification. SMIs are a major source of direct and indirect exports.
The policy environment for promoting SMI development is much more improved,
having culminated in the two important laws enacted in 1987, the Small and
Medium Industry Inauguration Assistance Act and the Venture Business
Financial Support Act. Together, they promote new sources and innovative
use of financing for technology intensive SMIs.
10.03    The first Bank loan to CNB was approved in 1980.  Since then, CNB
has grown rapidly. Today, CNB has total assets of about US$11 billion, an
extensive branch network of about 300 domestic branches and two overseas
offices, and over 12,000 staff members. It is an efficiently managed
organization with strong financial position. As the Korean financial
sector is being liberalized, it is in a good position to increase its
importance in the sector, particularly in view of its strong deposit base
and varied commercial banking activities. In terms of its clientele, CNB
is restricted to SSIs and households. It is not clear whether the



- 7 -
Government would relax such restrictions following the on-going trend of
universal banking in Korea.
10.04    Due to the rapid improvement in the country's balance of payment
position and increasing trade surplus in recent years, its loan portfolio
to Korean SSIs involving foreign currencies have significantly reduced in
recent years. In the future, however, its international operations would
likely to expand as the country becomes a net capital exporter and foreign
investments by Korean SMIs increase.
10.05    On the whole, the Second CNB loan was a well prepared and
implemented operation. The main lesson of the project stems from the
difficulty the Bank experienced in improving appraisal quality for foreign
currency equipment loans at branch level, and introduce more rigorous
appraisal standards to domestic currency equipment loans. Given the large
number and small size of CNB subloans, the original Bank expectations
appear unrealistic. The Bank need to reassess this position in future
operations, particularly when dealing with DFCs which primarily cater to
SMIs.



- 8 -
Combined Proiect Completion Report
Second Citizens National Bank Project (Loan 2144-KO) and
Small and Medium Machinery Industry Proiect (Loan 2215-3-KO)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Project Context.  The Citizens National Bank (CNB) was established on
February 1, 1963 in accordance with the Citizens National Bank Act as a state-
run bank, to provide financial and, to a limited extent, technical assistance
to small-scale industries (SSIs) and individual consumers. As compared with
other financial institutions engaged in the development of small and medium
industries in Korea, such as the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK). CNB caters to
smaller-sized businesses engaged in manufacturing and services industries.l/
1.2      CNB started its term lending operations to SSIs in August, 1979 using
the proceeds of the first Asian Development Bank (ADB) loan of $10 million.
In April, 1980 the Bank approved its first loan (Loan 1829-KO) to CNB for $30
million to further support CNB's burgeoning foreign currency lending and
development efforts in the SSI sector. A second Bank loan (Loan 2144-KO) of
$30 million was approved in May, 1982 on the basis of satisfactory experience
under the first loan. CNB was designated as one of the channels of Bank Funds
and received $10 million under the Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project
(Loan 2215-3KO amounting to a total loan amount of US$70 million) in December,
1982 and $20 million under the Small and Medium Industry Project (Loan 2515-
3K0 amounting to total loan amount of US$21 million) in October, 1986. Thus,
CNB has to date received a significant amount of foreign currency resources
from the Bank to support its term lending operations to the small-scale
industrial sector. This combined PCR covers the achievements under the second
Bank loan (Loan 2144-KO) and the Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project
loan (Loan 2215-3K0), CRN's progress in strengthening its institutional
capability during the project period 1982-87, and focuses on the performance
of subprojects financed under the loans.
1/  SSIs are defined (in the CNB Act of 1978) as:  (i) mining,
manufacturing, transport and banking enterprises with five to 100
permanent workers; and (ii) construction, commercial and other service
enterprises with five to 20 permanent workers. Currently the CNB Act
includes an asset-based definition of SSIs, namely: (i) mining,
manufacturing, electricity, gas and waterworks, transport, storage and
communication, financing, insurance, real estate and business services
with less than 100 permanent employees each or with less than W 300
million total assets each; and (ii) construction, retail and wholesale
trade, restaurants and hotels, social and personal services with less
than 20 permanent employees each or with less than W 50 million total
assets each.



-9-
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
The Industrial Sector
2.1      A rapid development of Korea's manufacturing sector has been the
basis of industrial progress since the early 19609. Without strong support
from the manufacturing sector, Korea could not have experienced growth in its
economy at the spectacular rates witnessed since 1960s. The technological
sophistication acquired by Korea's manufacturing industry in process of
rapidly continuous growth enabled the country to transform a rural and
agriculture-dominated economy into a semi-industrial economy and further, into
an industrial economy with diverse technological capabilities. The
contributions of the manufacturing sector to economic growth, employment and
exports in the last two decades, are summarized in the following table.
STRUCTURAL TRANSFORMATION OF KOREAN MWAUPACTURING INDUSTRY
(in percent)
1961                 1984
Share in GNP (constant prices)                  8.3                 32.4
Share in exports                               65.4 (1965)          91.2
Share in employment (includes mining)           5.0                 24.0
Share in investment (constant prices)          19.2                 21.0
Dynamic growth has been led in particular by manufactured exports, which
primarily consisted of light industrial goods in the early 19609 but today
include a diverse range of goods, including steel products, electronics and
chemicals.
2.2      In the period of rapid industrialization witnessed in the 1960s and
1970s, growth was the overriding criterion of resource allocation and balanced
regional development was neglected.
2.3      During the 19609 Korea's development was associated with an
interventionist approach by the Government whose key policies included:
comprehensive export incentives; an extensive system of directed, concessional
credit; and substantial spending on human and physical infrastructure. This
approach was successful until the two oil crises in the 1970s when it was
found that: the promotion of heavy and chemical industries had led to an
increase in debt-and excess capacity; directed credit for priority industries
had crowded out a large number of companies, particularly SHIs and forced them



- 10 -
to resort to informal credit markets; and despite the continuous emphasis on
technology diffusion and technical training. a wide gap had emerged between
the capabilities of smaller companies and the larger corporate groups that
were the main focus of Government's attention.
2.4      This predilection with *growth-first' policies generated
interregional disparities in growth which has emerged as a critical
development issue in the 1980s. The imbalance in the industrial structure
that resulted from these distortions in 1970s are being corrected through a
comprehensive set of industrial, financial, trade and technology development
policies in order to develop the manufacturing structure in accordance with
Korea's comparative advantage. The Government has articulated new industrial
policies to correct these imbalances in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) and
in the current Sixth Five-Year Plan (1987-91). The Government has indicated
that it would no longer guide the economy to the state-preferred sectors and
projects by intervening in the resource allocation process. The Government's
declining role in the management of the industrial economy, has, therefore,
implied that the private sector is assuming a higher degree of responsibility
in the identification and implementation of projects to suit the market
conditions.  Barring any major external shocks, and given these initiatives,
the prospects for f lther industrial development are bright.
SMI Sector
2.5      Small and Medium Industries (SHIs), which are defined as having total
employees of not more than 700, depending on the industry, with an asset
ceiling of V 4 billion to V 8 billion, have played a significant though
declining role in Korea's industrialization. In 1963, SMIs accounted for 62Z
of manufacturing jobs and 50? of manufacturing value-added compared to 56Z and
37Z, respectively, in 1985. This decline occurred due to: (a) the growth of
successful SKIs into large-scale firms taking advantage of economies of scale;
and (b) previous government policies which hampered SMI access to credit and
other needed resources.
2.6      Recognizing these problems, the Government's economic development
policy since 1980 has changed direction to promote SMIs intensively. The
policy stressed the role of SKIs and the removal of the disequilibrium caused
by the past industrial policy which placed weight on the heavy and chemical
industries. The policy has achieved some success for SMIs with facility
modernization, enlargement of financial supports, and the establishment of
linkages with large firms. This, however, has not been enough. Thus the
Government will continue to pursue such policies to promote SKIs. The basic
direction of policies for the development of SMI during the period of the
Sixth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1987-91) will be to
encourage these industries to be self-reliant in their efforts to improve
their competitiveness instead of giving them excessive protection and special
support. To that end, emphasis will be placed on improving their
accessibility to bank credit and technological information as well as on
rectifying unfair trade conditions in their relationships with large firms.
2.7      Financial Assistance.  Financial assistance to the SKI sector is
provided mainly by two specialized banks, namely, the Industrial Bank of Korea
and the Citizens National Bank, as well as various non-specialized commercial
institutions including seven nationwide commercial banks and ten local banks.



- 11 -
2.8      The Industrial Bank of Korea was established by the Government as a
financial institution specializing in financinS SMIs. It is now authorized to
finance SMIs employing up to 300 employees. The Citizens National Bank was
created in 1963 as a Government-invested banking institution aiming to upgrade
the economic status of all the people and of small-scale enterprises by
providing them with efficient financial assistance. It is currently allowed
to finance small industries employing up to 100 persons.
2.9      The specialized institutional framework for financing SMIs was
complemented in 1967 by a credit guarantee scheme administered by Industrial
Bank of Korea. In 1976 the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund was created as an
autonomous institution serving the needs of both large and small enterprises.
The Korea Credit Guarantee Fund, however, has been required to extend a
minimum 402 of its guarantee to the SMI sector.
2.10     There are also a number of non-specialized financial institutions
which serve the needs of industry irrespective of size. These institutions
participate, alongside the two government-owned specialized banks, in serving
the SMI sector.  Commercial banks, short-term finance companies, foreign
banks, leasing companies, and the Korea Long-term Credit Bank all provide
varying degrees of financial support to the SMI sector. In practice, however,
only the commercial banks (nationwide and local) have substantial lending
operations for the SMI sector because of their large resource base and loan
portfolio. In addition to their normal operations, the government-owned
specialized banks serving SMIs have been used as a channel for administering a
number of lending programs funded by the Government to support SMIs. As for
the allocation of funds by commercial banks, controls are exercised in the
form of a mandatory requirement that nationwide an.d local commercial banks
channel at least 35Z and 802 respectively of their increment of general
banking loan.in domestic currency to the SMI sector. Similarly, short-term
finance companies are required to extend at least 352 of their total amount of
bills discounted to the SMI sector.
2.11     The Long-term Credit Bank Act also requires that the Korea Long-term
Credit Bank allocate a certain percentage of its lending to the SMI sector. A
new source of financial assistance since 1979 is the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Corporation which administers the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Fund. The fund derives its resources from the Government, from
borrowings and from retained earnings. The corporation allocates resources
from this fund to the Industrial Bank of Korea and the Citizens National Bank
for onlending to SKIs in accordance with specific development guidelines.



- 12 -
III. CNB'S ROLE AND THE BANK LOAN OBJECTIVES
3.1      CNB's Role.  As part of the Government's effort to increase the flow
of institutional finance to the SMI sector, CNB was established in December,
1962 under the Citizens National Bank Act (CNB Act) and formally started its
business operations in February, 1963. The Act empowers it to mobilize
savings from the general public for economic development and to provide broad-
based financial services for consumers and small businesses. As of
December 31, 1987, CNB's authorized and paid-in share capital were V 100
billion and W 96 billion, respectively. The Government is the major
shareholder accounting for 72.6Z of the share capital; the remaining shares
are held by private coumercial banks (20.9Z), Government Pension Management
Corporation (6.4Z), and CNB's Workers Committee and individuals (0.12). The
Ministry of Finance (MOF) exercises overall control over CNB's policies (MOF
approval is needed for the amendment of operating manuals, the establishment
of branches, changes in senior management, etc.) while the Bank of Korea (BOK)
supervises CNB's commercial banking activities under the General Banking Act.
Apart from these overall controls and supervision, CNB enjoys autonomy in
conducting its business activities.
3.2      As a specialized state-owned commercial bank, CNB provides a wide
range of banking services to its customer and small business clientele. These
Services include taking savings and time deposits, lending in local and
foreign currencies for both working capital and investment, extending
overdraft, discounting bills, providing foreign exchange and credit card
services, guarantees in local and foreign currencies, and other banking
services. Its operations have been diversified and expanded considerably
since the appraisal of the second Bank loan. Its total assets rose from
W 2,771 billion in 1982 to W 6,518 billion in 1987 and its branches increased
from 220 to 267 during the same period. CNB's target group overlaps with that
of IBK. CNB operates for and in the household sector and the SSI sector,
while IBK caters basically to the SMI sector which includes SSIs. While both
CNB and IBK are allowed, by their respective acts, to finance projects
employing up to 100 persons, 1BK alone may finance projects emploving up to
300 persons. The overlap in institutional roles between CNB and IBK, however,
has been intended by policy makers and has in fact improved access of SMIs of
various sizes to institutional finance through CNB's broad branch network.
Moreover, to ensure that CNB's operations and assistance are primarily focused
on SSIs, in particular and small loans in general, there is a statutory
ceiling imposed by the Government on loans extended by CNB to a single
enterprise, beyond which specific approval of the Government is required.
Effective March, 1987, for an SSI borrower, the maximum assistance in local
currency loans has been restricted, except in several special cases, to W 500
million for working capital loans and equipment loans. In addition to its
financing role, CNB has undertaken diverse promotionial activities including a&
information service desk offering professional advice to customers on
administrative affairs, accounting, taxation and other financial matters;
lending at preferential interest rate to SSIs with good growth potential;
conducting surveys and research studies on the performance of SSIS, etc. In



- 13 -
1984, with a view to providing the financial service of facility financing for
SMIs, CYR established the CNB Leasing Co., Ltd. as a subsidiary. It was
followed by the Citizens Technology and Finance Co., Ltd. in 1986 which was
established to expedite new technology development among SMIs.
3.3      Obiectives of the Bank Loans.  The second Bank Loan to CNB (2114-KO)
of $30M approved in 1982 was aimed to:  (a) augment CNB's ability to provide
long-temn foreign currency resources in support of the modernization and
greater efficiency of production in the SSE sector: (b) assist CNB to move
prudently toward ternm transformation of a portion of its substantial deposits;
(c) upgrade CNB's term lending capability especially at the branch level; and
(d) encourage CNB to diversify the sources of foreign currency. In addition,
the SMMI Loan to CNB (2215-3KO) approved in 1982 was aimed to provide, through
credit component, long-term resources to support the requirements for
establishment, expansion, modernization, and balancing of facilities by small
and medium machinery producers.2/
21 On March 12, 1985, it was widened to include all SMIs rather than being
restricted to the SHMI sector.



- 14 -
IV. UTILIZATION OF THE LOAN
Loan Utilization
4.1      In the case of Loan Z144-KO, the loan proceeds were utilized, on the
whole, smoothly as expected, and there were no problems with commitments and
disbursements. At the time of appraisal it was envisaged that 46.7Z of the
loan amount would be disbursed by June 1984, 86.7? by June 1985 and 100? by
September 1986. These estimates proved to be reasonably accurate. As shown
in Annex 5-1, actually $11.1 million or 37.1? of the loan amount was disbursed
by June 1984 reaching $28.2 million or 94.0? by June 19b6. On CNB's request,
the Bank cancelled a residual amount of unused funds ($1,797,755.97). The
loan was closed on June 16, 1986, before the scheduled date of December 31,
1986. In the case of Loan 2215-3KO, the loan proceeds were utilized slower
than expected due to a slowdown in domestic business during 1984-85 and CNB's
temporary lending policy to utilize the proceeds of the loan (Loan 2144-KO)
preferentially. At the time of appraisal it as envisaged that 60t of the loan
amount would be disbursed by June 1984, 902 by June 1985 and 100? by June
1986. These estimates proved to be optimistic. As shown in Annex 5-2.
actually only $6.8 million or 67.9? of the loan amount was disbursed by June
1986 reaching $9.9 million or 99.2? by March 1987. On CNB's request, the Bank
cancelled a small amount of unused funds ($78,124.83); the loan was closed
later than the scheduled date of December 31, 1986, on March 27, 1987.
Subborrower Characteristics
4.2      CNN caters to the needs of SSIs which are defined in the CNB Act and
other supplemental regulations and expressed in terms of number of employees
or total asset size. To ensure access of the smallest firms to the Bank
funds, it was agreed during the negotiations of the loans (Loan 2144-K0 and
2215-3KO) that a minimum of 502 of the respective loan proceeds ($15.0 million
under Loan 2144-K0 and $5.0 million under 2215-3RO) would be onlent to
subprojects employing no more than 50 workers or whose total assets do not
exceed V 15O million. Data presented in Annex 7-1 and Annex 7-2 show that CNB
has lived up to this commitment satisfactorily. Under Loan 2144-1O, about 882
of the loan amount were supplied for enterprises (including those prepaid so
far) with less than 50 workers or with W 250 million or less. Under Loan
2215-3KO also, about 82? of the loan smount were for enterprises with less
than 50 workers or with W 250 million or less. Therefore employment
conditions of the loans indicate CNB's success in catering to the needs of
smaller SSIs.
Subproiect Characteristics
4.3      Annex 6-1 through 10-2 give details of the subprojects financed under
Loan 2144-KO and 2215-3K0. The proceeds of the loan (Loan 2144-K0) were
allocated to 320 subprojects, with an average size of $88,100, of which 16 or
5? of the loan amount werD 'A' subprojects (above the free limit of $0.3
million). These 16 'A' subprojects were submitted to IBRD for prior review



- 1S -
and approval. 105 subprojects were financed under Loan 2215-3K0, with an
average size of $94,500. Two or 1.92 of the number of subprojects, accounting
for 7.92 of the loan amount, were above the agreed free limit of $0.3 million
and submitted to IBRD for prior approval.
4.4      The total investment cost of subprojects, except those prepaid so
far, financed under Loan 2144-KO and Loan 2215-3K0 amounted to W 1V.973
million and V 7,955 million, respectively, of which CNB financed an average
66.02 and 61.32, respectively, including the 60.42 and 48.5Z. respectively
contributed by Bank funds. CNB had been reasonably accurate in its cost
calculations, as evidenced by the fact that on the whole CNB's subprojects
experienced a cost overrun of 0.32 and 0.012, respectively. Cost overruns
were largely attributed to adjustments in project scale necessitated by
rapidly expanding markets. Cost underruns, fewer in number than cost
overruns, were frequently due to overestimation of permanent working capital
requirements. Cost overruns were generally covered by either CNB's own
resources or those of the project proponents. Estimates of project completion
dates were also reasonably accurate, with the exception of 13 and 9 (out of
138 and 48) subprojects, respectively, (9.42 and 18.72 of the total number of
subprojects) whose completion was delayed by one to two months. The reasons
for the delays were varied but usually involved delays in procurement and
delivery/installation of imported equipment. The procurement of imported
equipment which is based mostly on limited competitive bidding, involving at
least two bidders, has been heavily concentrated on Japanese suppliers who
were selected for 96 and 23 out of 138 and 48 subprojects (except those
prepaid), respectively, and received 60.92 and 41.62 of total foreign currency
expenditures under both loans. The other sources are much less significant;
procurement from West Germany comes a distant second accounting for 19.92 and
21.52 of foreign expenditures; USA, 4.02 and 19.02; local procurement, 8.52
and 02; Italy, 2.62 and 3.22; and Sweden and Austria just over 0.6Z and 11.52,
respectively.
4.5      In keeping with the Loan Agreement covenant which required that no
less than $15 million or 502 of the funds under Loan 2144-KO and no less than
$5 million or 50S of the funds under the Loan 2215-3K0 be respectively
allocated to subprojects located outside the city of Seoul, CNB approved 167
subprojects (55.22 of total) under Loan 2144-KO and 52 subprojects (50.02 of
total) under Loan 2215-3K0 located outside Seoul for an aggregate subloan
amount of $14.9 million or 52.92 of the total loan amount under Loan 2144rK0
and $5.3 million or 53.22 of the total under Loan 2215-3K0. Although this
fulfills the loan covenant, Seoul continues to attract the single largest
number (44.82 and 50.02) and amount of subprojects (47.1Z and 46.82) under
both loans. This is due mainly to better infrastructure facilities, better
banking and other business services and p"oximity to the main markets.
4.6      Annex 6-1 and 6-2 show the sectoral, size and type distribution of
subprojects financed under Loan 2144-KO and 2215-3-KO. In the case of Loan
2144-KO, because of no specific agreement on the allocation of the loan
proceeds, the sectoral distribution of subprojects financed under Loan 2144-KO
generally followed the sectoral pattern of CNB's overall lending in the SSI
sector. Manufacturing subprojects accounted for 64.12 of the number and 53.92



- 16 -
of the total loan amount; within the manufacturing sector, food and beverage
industries, textile and garments industries were leading subsectors with 38.22
and 16.02 of the total subloan amount, respectively. Paper and printing
industries came next with 34 subprojects accounting for 13.12 of the loan
amount, metal products, machinery and equipment (13.02); chemicals (10.52);
and others including nonmetallic minerals and wood products accounting for the
rest. The transport and services industries comprised the single largest
subsector with 35.22 of the loan amount. Construction and mine industries
accounted for 9.0Z and 1.9? of the total loan amount, respectively. In the
case of Loan 2215-3-KO, manufacturing subprojects accounted for 85.72 of the
number and 88.1? of the total loan amount; within the manufacturing sector,
metal-related industries were the leading subsector with 41.42 of the total
subloan amount. Metal manufacturing typically small machinery components,
home appliances and metal parts subcontracted from medium- to large-scale
pr 1ucers. Paper and printing industries came next with 16 subprojects
accounting for 22.3? of the loan amount, textile and garments (19.7?),
chemicals (8.9Z), and others including nonmetallic minerals, food and beverage
industries, accounting for the rest. Construction, transport and services
industries comprised the rest of the subsectors outside of manufacturir! with
1-.82 of the total loan amount.
4.7      The majority (199 and 86 out of 320 and 105) of subprojects finc.aced
under Loan 2144-KO and 221S-3-3K0 accounting for 66.2? and 77.32 of the
respective loan amounts were for expansion purposes. It appears that in the
face of a rapidly expanding market at home, CNB's client companies preferred
to simply add to existing capacity rather than to retool or modernize
production facilities at great expense to cope with market demand. Moreover,
although nearly a third of the number of subprojects were new subprojects,
they accounted for 29.22 of the total subloan amount, reflecting CNB's
cautious approach of confining its foreign currency lending to its existing
borrowers. Only 10 subprojects (out of 425) accounting for 1.62 of the Bank
loans were classified as replacementlmodernization subprojects.
Overational and Economic Performance of Subproiects
4.8      Operational Performance.  Information on the operational performance
of subprojects financed under Loan 2144-KO and 2215-310 is presented in
Annex 8-1 and 8-2. CNB monitored systematically its clients' operational
performance but due to a large number of subprojects most of these operational
data have not been verified by CNB staff. As reported by CNB's clients, total
sales generated from the 138 and 48 subprojects (except those prepaid so far)
financed under both loans, amounted to W 106.4 billion and W 70.6 billion
respectively, during the first two years of operations while sales estimates
prepared by CNB staff totaled to W 106.8 billion and 70.8 billion for both
loans respectively, during the same period, indicating that original estimates
were reasonably accurate.
4.9      As measured by their profitability, the financial performance of
subprojects was also satisfactory. Out of the 186 subprojects (except those
prepaid so far) financed under Loan 2144-KO and 2215-3K0, only nine actually
sustained losses during the first or second year, or both years of operation.



- 17 -
Reported profit levels for subprojects, financed under both loans, however,
were generally lower than originally estimated, V 3,345 million for the first
year of operation compared with forecasts of V 3,562 million, and W 6,502
million in the second year of operation of 1.22 lower than estimates of
W 6,579 million. Despite actual profits being lower than forecasts, the level
of profits was, at the early stage of operation, sufficiently high enough to
cover debt service obligation to CNB. and the repayment performance of the
subborrowers involved was, at the early stage of operation, excellent as well.
The problem is, however, that the number of subborrowers with arrears, as
shown in Annex 10-1 and 10-2, has recently increased to 67 out of 138
subprojects financed under Loan 2144-K0 while subprojects financed under Loan
2215-3K0 have no subborrower with arrears. The above-mentioned arrears
resulted from a failure or slowdown in businesses, especially in the laver
(seaweed)-processing industries (which were classified as food and beverage
subsector) and the heavy eq'xipment rental industries (which were classified as
services subsector). In terms of return on net worth, 23.12 of the
subprojects financed under both loans had returns ranging from 20-302 and
25.82 had returns over 30? in their first year of operation, In its second
year of operation, 22.0? of the subprojects realized net returns of 20-30? and
48.9a had returns on net worth of over 30? showing that CNB's estimates were
reasonably accurate.
4.10     Economic Performance.  Annex 9-1 and 9-2 present some of the economic
indicators of CNB's subprojects financed under Loan 2144-K0 and 2215-3K0.  CNB
systematically monitors the economic performance of subprojects in terms of
their capacity utilization. foreign exchange and revenue generation/savings,
value-added contribution and employmenit creation. In addition, CNB calculates
FRR and ERR of all subprojects above the free limit (as required under the
Loan Agreement). However, it has not been easy to verify the accuracy of some
of the data on actual performance submitted by clients who, for the most part,
are being required to submit economic reports on their operations for the
first time. Nevertheless, random checking by CNB of the data in Annex 9-1 and
9-2 indicates that the subprojects financed under Loan 2144-K0 and 2215-3K0
have done moderately well in terms of the noted indicators.
4.11     In terms of employment creation, CNB staff expected that 186
subprojects (except those prepaid so far) financed under Loan 2144-KO and
2215-3K0 would generate direct (incremental) employment for 1,257 persons.
This estimate implied an average investment cost of about W 18.3 million for
each additional person employed. The actual employment generation was 1,320
new jobs at an investment cost-per-job of W 17.4 million. Random verification
by CNB of estimates of value-added (V 23,166 million in the first year of
operation and W 39,841 million in the second year of operation) and of
capacity utilization shows CNB's own subproject appraisal estimates to be
generally accurate.



- 18 -
V. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Organization, Management and Staffing
5.1      The overall control of CNB's operations is vested in its Board of
Directors which up to April 1984 consisted of CNB's President, Deputy
President, Auditor and five Executive Directors, all of whom, except the
President, were appointed from within CNB. With the promulgation in April
1984 of the Basic Law for the Management of Government Invested Organizations,31
CNB's Board of Directors was completely restructured. The new Board comprises
a chairman and seven members. The current Chairman is the former Minister of
Commerce and Industry. CNB's President is an ex-officio member. Of the
remaining six members, four come from the private sector, and two from the
Hinistry of Finance and the Economic Planning Board. While broad policy
matters are set by its Board of Directors, CNB's day-to-day business is run by
the 3xecutive Committee consisting of the President, Deputy President, Auditor
and eight Executive Vice Presidents (EVP). Four of the EVPs are functionally
responsible and accountable for a number of head office departments while the
remaining four members are in charge of four regional headquarters which were
established for the purpose of effective business activities in the region
through decentralization of head office function. CNB's branches are linked
directly to the Electronic Data Processing Department in the head office by an
on-line computer system using private telephone lines.
5.2      Since appraisal of the second Bank loan, CNB has undertaken several
organizational changes to streamline operations, improve efficiency through
specialization, upgrade corporate planning and strengthen loan management.
Currently CNB has 16 denartments in its head office including eight regional
Headquarters. In order to- increase its contact with small Jusinesses
throughout the country, the number of branches and subbranches were increased
from 220 at the end of 1982 to 267 at the end of 1987. CNB opened a
representative office in Tokyo in 1986 in order to cope positively with the
ever-changing international finance environment, to introduce up-to-date
financing techniques and to provide small business with a wide range of
international financing services. It is planned to open another
representative office in New York, an international finance center in 1988.
With respect to foreign currency lending, the Foreign Loan Department (FLD)
has been merged with the International Department effective September 8, 1987.
This is in line with the rearrangement of its organization for the purpose of
upgrading operational efficiency through coordination and reorganization of
the functions of some departments including FLD. In fact, FLD has delegated
branch supervision authorities of subprojects several times during the period
of 1984 to 1987. Furthermore, on January 1, 1987 CNB designated all branches
as foreign subloan branches with the aims of expediting foreign fund
utilization and raising efficiency of supervision of subprojects. Hence all
branches of CNB are authorized to make foreign subloans in amounts of no more
31 The purpose of this law is to streamline the operation of public sector
enterprises.



- 19 -
than US$100,000 and to supervise the activities of subprojects. On the whole,
the organizational changes that have taken place during the project period,
appear quite adequate and appropriate. CNB's current (as of December 31,
1987) Organization Chart is presented in Annex 4.
5.3      During the project period 1982-1987, CNB gradually increased and
developed its staff in line with the expansion of its operations. CNB's staff
increased from 8,953 (including 1,977 professionals) at the end of 1982 to
11,162 (including 2,511 professionals) at the end of 1987 or an increase of
about 25S overall, and about 27Z in the professional staff over a period of
five years. During the same period, CNB's volume of lending operations and
total assets increased by nearly twofold, hence, the increase in staffing was
justified. CNB recruits its professional staff of college graduates through
competitive examinations. Upon appointment, each staff member goes through a
period of classroom and on-the-job training in various parts of the bank
including the branches, where nearly 90? of staff are assigned. Through
competitive salaries and benefits, as well as well-rounded training programs
(in-house and overseas for selected staff) CNB has managed to keep a low staff
turnover averaging 7.02 during 1982-1987; for professional staff, the turnover
averaged just 2.9? over the last four years. CNB has been able to maintain a
core of experienced staff adequate to support its growing operations.
5.4      For its foreign currency lending operations, the International
Financing Division and Foreign Loan Operation Division in the International
Department, have a staff of 20 including eight professionals, headed by two
experienced managers who have risen from the ranks within CNB. As CNB
designated all branches as foreign subloan branches, staff assigned to foreign
loans are required to take an in-house training prepared by the Foreign Loan
Operation Division. In 1981, CNB established its own separate training
center. Since then, CNB has been conducting similar training programs
covering, inter alia, all aspects of the project cycle (identification,
appraisal, implementation and follow-up). However, CNB's training capacity
cannot fully meet the needs of its extensive branch network for project
evaluation officers. CNB addresses this training problem by sending staff on
overseas training, including those conducted by ADB, Association of
Development Financial Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP) and the
Economic Development Institute (EDI) and by recruiting experienced personnel.
However, there is still a need for additional in-house training on term
lending operations, supplemented by short overseas study tours to familiarize
CNB officials with the latest trend in development banking and practices. In
order to meet that need, CNB set up an ultra-modern Training and Education
Center equipped with training and education facilities in the outskirts of
Seoul in the fall of 1987.
5.5      Proiect Appraisal.  In assessing CNB's appraisal capability, it is
important to note that CNB's loan processing and project selection have been
and are still determined predominantly by commercial considerations, focussing
on subborrowers creditworthiness, collateral, credit repayment record and
reputation in the community. It is partly due to CNB's strong emphasis on and
cautiousness over the latter two criteria that CNB's loan portfolio, which



- 20 -
consists of loans to a large number of small, widely dispersed and often
unsophisticated clients,'has remained sound. Moreover, about 70Z of CNB's
subloans are short-term loani and the average size is so small that an
elaborate project analysis would be impractical. Appraisal standards for
short-term working capital and short-term equipment loans in local currency
appear satisfactory as evidenced by the low level of arrears on these loans.
5.6      For the appraisal of long-term equipment loans in local currency,
loan applications are processed by branches with technical assistance (when
needed due to lack of technical manpower at the branch level) from the Credit
Analysis Division and the Extension Services Division at the Head Office.
While in theory the same feasibility criteria and standards that are applied
to foreign currency loans should apply to local currency term loans, in
practice the project analysis on the local currency loans is generally less
rigorous. This is partly because these loans are not always reviewed for
final approval by the Head Office or by outside agencies like the Bank and ADB
and also because commercial considerations continue to be the main criteria
for project selection.
5.7      This is not the case, however, with foreign currency loans where
CNB's organizational systems and best staff are brought to bear on project
evaluation and'selection. For foreign currency loans, appraisal procedures
involve a two-step process whereby credit analysis covering market, financial
and technical aspects of the subproject is undertaken first by the Credit
Analysis Division of the branch or the Small and Medium Enterprises Supporting
Department. When the analysis is completed in detail, the staff assigned to
the foreign exchange loans in the branch then analyzes the feasibility of the
whole project, taking into account the subproject's economic, financial,
technical and market merits. At the time of appraisal of the second Bank
loan, the appraisal of subprojects has been centralized at the Head Office to
ensure the quality of subloans. To stimulate the active participation of
branches in foreign currency term lending activities (thereby further
broadening its clientele base) and to speed up subproject processing, CNB
started to delegate to the branches preliminary selection of subprojects in
1982 and designate all branches as foreign subloan branches in 1987. However,
the appraisal reports of all subloans over US$100,000 are subject to re-
exmination and approval by the staff of the International Department at the
Head Office. The appraisal of foreign currency loans thus involves the
combined skills of several staff members from different departments.
Appraisal standards have remained high. Through periodic field supervision
missions and subproject appraisal review by CNB staff at Headquarters, CNB has
been instrumental in raising the standards of its appraisal.
5.8      Project Supervision.  CNB's supervision procedures are effective.
Primary responsibility for supervision of local currency equipment loans rests
with the branches whose supervisory staff keep close contact with clients, not
only when they make loan installments, but also when the same clients make
their savings deposits. Thus the deposit taking role of CNB is used as an
effective tool not only for raising funds but also for keeping contact with
clients. For foreign currency loans, supervision responsibility rests with
FLD staff at the time of appraisal of the second Bank loan. However, since



- 21 -
FLD started to delegate to branches supervision authorities on subprojects in
1984, the branches supervise subprojects within their areas of responsibility.
This is also done through regular visits to project sites by branch staff, and
close monitoring of operational and financial statements (which are submitted
periodically by subborrowers). Supervision of project implementation is done
by regular visits of CNB staff, obligatory periodic reporting by clients on
operational and financial performance, and a systematic monitoring of credit
transactions by branch staff. After project completion, projects are normally
visited at least once a year while projects facing difficulties are visited
more often. Follow-up visits are carried out regularly and the findings which
are well-documented, are reported to branch managers and in some cases, to
appropriate departments in the Head Office (e.g. Extension Services Division
for technical assistance or the Loan Collection Department, which would
arrange any required assistance at the project level in the region).



- 22 -
VI. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF CNB
Operational Performance
6.1      Lending Operations.  CNB's lending operations consist of loans to
business enterprises (business loans) and to consumers (general populace
loans).  Business loans are made up of working capital loans in local
currency and equipment loans in local and foreign currency. General
populace loans are small loans extended to individuals for purchase of
consumer goods and services including low-cost houses, home furnishings,
hospitalization, school tuition, etc. During the period of 1982-86, CNB's
total loan approvals increased by 642 (averaging 13.32 p.a.), below the
projected level. In contrast with this steady rise in total loan
approvals, actual approvals of working capital loans increased sharply from
W 517.0 billion to W 1,231.3 billion. This increased level of loan
approvals which CNB had expected, was in accordance with its policy of
strengthening its main lending operations to the SSI sector, and was caused
by the borrowers' need of to finance accumulated inventories in a
recessionary economic condition. However, because of the prevailing
sluggish business climate during the period, actual approvals of equipment
loans, which more than doubled from W 41 billion in 1982 to W 86 billion in
1986, fluctuated and fell below projections.
6.2      For foreign currency equipment loans, actual approvals during
1982-86 dropped even more significantly except in 1983 mostly due to the
slack investment climate during the period and partly due to the weakening
of the Won against strong foreign currencies particularly in 1984-85.
6.3      CNB's loan portfolio increased from W 1,874 billion in 1982 to
W 3,065 billion in 1986 at an average annual growth rate of 132, compared
with the projected 262. The portfolio on average accounted for about 642
of CNB's total assets. However, the share of equipment loans in the
portfolio was insignificant, accounting for about 6.3? on the average.
These loans were well diversified sectorally.
6.4      Other Operations.  CNB has prudently used its other financial
operations to strengthen its main lending operations in the SSI sector.
These operations include short-term guarantee operations, investments in
securities and call money market (the latter two P.;e essentially done to
manage liquidity). Most of CNB's investments are generally in government
and quasi-government bonds and to a much lesser extent in private sector
stocks and bonds. Investments in securities have increased rapidly and
call money operations have fluctuated unevenly with the availability of
liquid funds.
6.5      CNB's guarantee operations are made under the Korea Credit
Guarantee Fund (KCGF) whose guidelines emphasize the projects' financial,
economic, and managerial aspects, rather than collateral requirements.
Thus, guarantee operations enhance CNB's project evaluation capability.



- 23 -
The amount of guarantees expanded significantly between 1982-86 due to the
growth of CNB's international business and increased demand for payment and
cbllateral guarantees from the SSI sector. CNB has made a few equity
investments (some at Government's request) in the past, but it has not
undertaken further equity participation after 1986 when the Citizens
Technology and Finance Co., Ltd. a wholly owned venture capital company of
CNB, was established.
Resource Mobilization
6.6      Since its inception, CNB has been very successful in mobilizing
domestic resources through deposits, primarily from the household sector
and small businesses. Over the years, CNB has built a fairly stable
deposit base of about 14 million deporit accounts. With an exclusive right
to operate the Mutual Installment Savings Remuneration Scheme (MISRS) from
1963-83 through its wide branch network, and high staff institutional
efficiency, CUB has been able to mobilize substantial domestic resources
within a relatively short period of time. During the project period
(1982-86), short-term deposits, which constituted the bulk (57? in 1986) of
domestic resources, rose from W 1,587 billion at the end of 1982 to W 2,638
billion at the end of 1986. Medium- and long-term deposits led by MISRS
savings deposits increased more than twofold, from V 888 billion to W 1,813
billion for the same period.
6.7      CNB's mobilization of foreign currency resources has been less
dramatic mainly due to slower demand for foreign currency loans and
institutional constraints on CNB's ability to tap alternative sources of
foreign exchange. During 1979-86, CNB relied mainly on ADB and IBRD for
its foreign currency resources. However, since 1986 due to Korea's surplus
balance of payment situation, low interest rates and the availability of
cheaper funds from alternative sources, foreign currency loans from
official sources (i.e., IBRD and ADB) turned out to be non-competitive,
which led to CNB's partial cancellation of US$33 million of its ADB III
loan. Similarly, the Bank's SMI project loan (2515-KO) to the
International Bank of Korea and CNB (for US$110 million) approved in April
1985, was signed only in late 1986, with the loan portion for CNB being
reduced from US$40 million to US$20 million. In 1987, in an effort to
diversify its foreign currency funding sources, CNB was able to obtain a
loan of V 3.1 billion (US$20 million equivalent) from the Japanese Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) at an interest rate of 4.252 p.a. There
is still some scope for expanding foreign currency lending and CNB would
have to raise additional foreign currency resources to finance that
expansion. During the next S-year period (1988-92), CNB estimates that it
would need an additional US$130 million in foreign exchange. CNB intends
to raise all of its requirements over the next five years from commercial
or bilateral sources. During the period, it is expected that the
Government will expedite further liberalization of the financial sector.
Therefore, as the government will greatly reduce its regulatory functions
and transfer these gradually to these private sector in the near future,
CNB's success in raising foreign exchange funds from the market would
depend strongly on institutional factors (e.g., CNB's ability to maintain



- 24 -
the excellent quality of its portfolio, continued operational and
management efficiency, success in broadening its capital base, etc.) and
Government policy.
Financial Performance
6.8      Financial Position.  A comparison of CNB's projected and audited
balance sheets for the period 1982-1987 is given in Annex 8. CNB's
financial condition remained satisfactory throughout the period. Its total
assets increased by more than twice from V 2,770.9 billion at the end of
1982 to W 6,518.3 billion at the end of 1987. Total assets actually
increased by 18.7Z p.a. over the period, lower than the annual growth rate
of about 262 projected at appraisal.
6.9      The increase of W 3,474.4 billion in total assets between 1982-87
and was financed by short-term liabilities (64Z), medium- and long-term
liabilities (332) and equity (3?) as compared with the projected 672, 31'
and 22, respectively. CNB has been notably successful in mobilizing local
currency deposits-- V 2,474.6 billion in 1982 rising to W 5,440.1 billion
in 1987.
6.10     Local currency loans consistently constitute more than 502 of
CNB's total assets while liquid assets (cash, deposits with banks,
securities and call loans) accounted for about 202. About half of CNB's
total assets had been financed by short-term deposits. Long-term loans
were consistently about twice as much as the long-term funds available,
implying that on the one hand CNB had been successfully mobilizing domestic
resources through deposit taking (80S of which were short-term) but on the
other, it had been using short-term funds to meet the shortfall in long-
term resources. However, CNB is assured that although short-term deposits
formed a major portion of it's resources, these deposits actually tend to
be long-term in nature as they were often renewed on expiry dates.
6.11     Profitability.  Annex 13 shows a comparison of CNB's projected and
actual income statements which illustrates CNB's satisfactory financial
performance. During 1982-83, CNB suffered operating losses of W 17.7
billion and W 26.7 billion, respectively, resulting from negative spreads
on a major portion of its loans. This started in June 1982 when the
Government adjusted interest rates downward by four percentage points. CNB
had to reduce its lending rates to conform with Government-regulated
uniform lending rate of 10? while it had to continue paying higher rates
(from 11.4t to 27.5?) on various existing deposits until their redemption,
mostly in 1985 and 1987. CNB's profitability was subsequently restored in
1984 and rose steeply in 1985 as a result of: (i) the upward revised
lending rates in January and November 198k; (ii) redemption of a large
portion of CNB's high interest-bearing deposits; (iii) increased volume of
working capital loans and extensive use of various mechanisms which
generated higher profit margins, such as bills discounting and overdrafts;
and (iv) change in bad debts provisions policy leading to writing-back to
income in 1984 of more than W 13 billion. The combined effect of these



- 25 -
factors helped improve CNB's interest and earning spread, and thus enabled
CNB to make a profit of W 0.7 billion in 1984, W 24.7 billion in 1985,
V 13.8 billion in 1986 and W 28.9 billion in 1987. CNt's high level of
computerization expenses and a 322 increase in personnel expenses, given in
order to ensure continuing competitiveness of its salaries, increased its
administrative expenses by 25Z and 20t in 1983 and 1984, respectively.
They tapered off substantially to about 9Z on average since 1985. Barring
any sudden change in the interest rate structure, CNB's profitability is
expected to remain satisfactory in the coming years.
6.12     The losses incurred in 1982-33 not only absorbed excess liquidity
enjoyed in the past, but also eroded CNB's equity resulting in a long-term
debt/equity ratio of 14.4:1 at the end of 1982 and 13.5:1 at the end of
1983, breaching the stipulated limit of 10:1. However, with favorable
interest rate changes in 1984, which helped CNB to restore its
profitability, and with continued contribution by the Government to CNB's
paid-in capital amounting W 58.3 billion from 1983 to 1987, the long-term
debt/equity ratio was successfully scaled down to 9.1:1 in 1986 and to
8.2:1 in 1987. However, as CNB's equity structure is relatively weak
compared to similar institutions in Korea, it is essential to enlarge CNB's
capital base in order to positively cope with the liberalization trend in
the financial sector and to compete effectively with other financial
institutions.
Quality of Loan Portfolio
6.13     As shown in Annex 16 and 17, CtB's reported collection performance
has been highly satisfactory and the quality of its loan portfolio has been
very sound, considering the large number (917,358 small business and
individuals) of generally small-sized accounts and wide geographic
dispersion of its clients. At the end of 1987, collection rates (kor both
principal and interest) averaged 97.82 compared with 97.62 in 1984 and
96.3Z in 1982. Collection rates on working capital loans to industry are
the highest at 99.02, followed by general populace loans at 97.12 and
equipment loans in local currency at 90.9?. During 1984-87, however, due
to the sluggish business conditions and high foreign exchange risk
exposure, the collection rates on foreign currency loans continued to drop
from 90.62 in 1984 to 76.8Z in 1986 before rising to 90.7Z in 1987, due to
substantial prepayments of foreign currency loans. As a result of this
excellent collection performance, total arrears of principal and interest
as of end 1987 represented 14.7t of the number and only 1.6S of the amount
of total loan amounts outstanding Loans affected by arrears represented
11.7S of loan amounts outstanding. compared with 10.92 at the end of 1982.
The bulk (71? of the number and 602 of the amount) of principal payment in
arrears fell in the 1-3 month category. Rescheduled amounts constituted a
relatively small portion of loans outstanding. Loans written off, which
are more than fully covered by provisions, are negligible. CNB's sound
portfolio quality and high collection rates can be attributed to: (i) a
prudent project selection, (ii) frequent and regular contact with clients
at the branch level, particularly delinquent ones. (iii) monitoring and
supervision system that provides, in most cases, an early warning of



- 26 -
potential debt service problems, and (iv) the fact that 5OS of CNB's loans
to the SMI sector are contracted under the MISRS and, therefore. are fully
secured. The fact that the rest of CNB's subborrowers also keep
compensating deposit accounts to cover loan repayment are contributory
factors leading to a sound loan portfolio quality.



- 27 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.1      The implementation of the second Bank loan (2144-KO) and the Small
and Medium Machinery Industry Project Loan (2215-3K0) to CNB was generally
smooth and the resource allocation objectives of CNB under the loans were
achieved satisfactorily. No significant delays were encountered in the
project cycle. Although the loan proceeds actually disbursed (US$38.1
million) were relatively small in relation to the total demand for term funds
from the SSI sector in Korea, and in relation to CNB's total portfolio during
the project period (1982-87), the entire proceeds accrued to small-scale
industries (i.e., firms with no more than W 500 million in total assets or
more than 100 employees) and produced significant economic, financial and
operational benefits for the 425 SSI beneficiaries. In terms of resource
transfer, therefore, both Bank-financed projects have been a success.
However, since 1986, due to Korea's surplus balance of payment situation, low
interest rates, and the availability of cheaper funds from alternative
sources, foreign currency loans from official sources (i.e., the ADB and IBRD)
turned out to be non-competitive, resulting in considerable number of
prepayments.
7.2      In terms of its institution-building objectives, CNB made good
progress in strengthening its capability to undertake term lending aimed at
developing the SSI sector. Under both projects, CNB systematically calculated
ERRs (and FRRs) on the larger-sized subloans (para. 4.10). This loan
condition, more than any other factor, may have increased CNB's awareness of
the need to take into account the full economic feasibility of a subproject in
addition to its financial and technical merits. At the recommendation of the
Bank's supervision work detailed review of 18 'A" subprojects, CNB's project
appraisal, particularly of the economic, market and technical aspects of
subprojects, has improved. CNB now applies the same appraisal techniques and
standards to local and foreign currency term loans. It also trained staff at
all branches on feasibility-based project appraisal (para. 5.07). This
training needs to be accelerated and expanded, in order to allow CNB's
institutional capacity for term lending to grow.
7.3      CNB's financial condition has remained sound, despite major losses
incurred in 1982 and 1983 which eroded its equity base. These losses were the
result of an abrupt and unexpected change in the interest rate policy of the
Government (para. 6.06). That CNB's resource position, debt servicing
capability and portfolio quality have remained sound is attributable to CNB's
strong management, judicious project selection and close supervision. The
losses incurred in 1982 and 1983 not only absorbed excess liquidity enjoyed in
the past, but also eroded CNB's equity resulting to a non-compliance of the
stipulated limit of 10:1 under Loan 2144-KO. However, with favorable interest
rate changes in 1984 and with continued Government contribution to CNB's paid-
in capital from 1983 to 1987, the long-term debt/equity ratio was successfully
scaled down to 8.2:1 in 1987. However, as C0B's equity structure is
relatively weak compared to similar institutions in Korea, it is considered
essential to enlarge CNB's capital base in order to positively cope with the
trend in the liberalized financial sector and with the intensified competition
among financial inetitutions.



1. tStena. rSo. St.e..C.-. 1980 .  £987
A. tnc r8t amt. o  8Opoit.   at b poa,t r1 y 8886t 11
tto p rcn8 pr e.o3
._  .ottect                          -        -           i ? U.88 6avinss D00.98. 0.640.8.                              -        -                        _DTiaopsit_                                                    nd 0.poi4ts 
Dot*              -       ie,* t   sit.   Z/        S.0i8.s    Liberal  .0ing69 t. 8.9 8    8n e8   t t1 ilt8  Deposit ,Xtotl0ta0l8 0t 1 lo.t.l1.  0  .n .pit       Worker .      Property  2'.book                         Tepor.7    8.e4.,018
nt1h             _ gtb    _ b  I o_ t    t O. t_o  3r . 0 r    ' rte b b0  .8b 1 70  2 64    3 year   I Yt    2 ryear  23 y     4 Y.*,  S        1 ITeat    2 fear    3 Y".        5    r  tS       o O    epoosit s 04p o4  '
sp. 16. 1980      .       17.22    19.32   (24        £4.8       .            _             17.6   122.42   (220        £7.6     19.4      22.0     23.5     24.S    27.4       30.3       33.5      3b.5        1.8           1.0
19.5                                        £7.£~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 (  £9.503                                                         335       165         t.             .
* 8            .       14.82    £6.S2   121 6)    12.3        .          .       .         . I    £20.2)   l22.S) I   5.I     17.1     19.S     21.0      22.0    274        38.2      23.5       3b.5        1.8          1.0
£9.5                                                    17.1     1.
3uly  1, 1981              14.82    16 92   (21 6)    14.4        .                         I5.1   (28.1'(22 .5)    15.1        17.1      19.5    21.0      22.0    27.4        30.3      33.5      36.5        1.6           1.8          _
£8.6                                                    16.1     18.5
llnr.  I       .       14.82    10.64   (20.4)    14.4                                   14 .1   (19.1)  (21.5£    15.1       17.1     19.5     21.0      22.0    27.'       30.3      33.5       36.5        1.4          1.8           14.4
17.4                                                    14.9     17.2
*. 30             .        14.82    15.24   (19.2)    14.4        .         .       .        12.9   (17.9)   (20.3)    14.1       16.l     18.5     20.0     21.0    27.4        20.3      33.5      36.5        1.8           1.8          16.4
Doe. 29           .        14.4    14.6      I6.2     14.4        .         .       .        13.8     14.4     16.2     14.1     14.9      17.3     18.8     19.8    27.4       30.3       33.5      36.5        1.8           1.8          14.4
JAG. 14. 192      .        14.4     1.6      1.       14.4 I1.8    14.4    £0.0                                         12.8    14.4 £..0           11.9     I6.5    27.4       30.3       13.5      26.5        1.8           1.6          14.4
U. 29                      12.0     12.2     12.o     12.0        .         .       .        11.A     12.0     12.6     11.4     12.0      12.6     13.5     16.1   2P.4        30.3      23.5       36.5        1.8           1.8          t:.0
Jr. 28            .         7.6      7.6      8.0      8.0        .         .       .        7.6       8.0      8.0     11.6     12.0      12.6     13.5     14.1    23.4       25.4       27.5      29.1        1.8           1.8          12.0
4pril 1, 1983     6.0       7.6      7.6      8.0      8.0        .         .       .         7.6      8.0      6.O      7.6       7.8      8.0      8.2      8.4    i9.6       21.4       22.9      23.9        1.6           1.8           8.0
38n  23  19864    4.0      6.0       8.0      9.0      6.0       .          .       .        9.0      9.0       9.8      8.6      8.8      9.8       9.2      9.4    19.$       21.4      22.9      23.9         1.0          1.0            6.0
1o-.  S           4.0       6.0      6.0     10.0 6,0                                        10.0     10.0    10.8       9.6      9.8      10.0     10.2     10.4    19.6       21.4      22.9       23.9        1.0           1.0           S.0
1i  19.1985    4.0      6.0       6.0     10.0      6.0       6.0        9.0    12.0     10.8     10.0  (1(020) |  '.6         9.8     10.0      10.2    0D.-       6.       17.2      IS.2      18.9         1.0          2.0           6.0
N.ote    I/ Th1 tIo.4lwot rst*o  by Croe. o  tun, i0fts2lluent  wisa "od vrtoal iost.1lut *oi.0. Ooposit# #. tboav 00  by brokeor
A9s*i8.tioo of Ur" 8 8ntil Jnly 22, '984  o8d tbtr*.ftro Ch. mai- i .4.Iic* raote  of tf. 6o"ooro of t86 book Of tor.-
_ i084., in 1?Go.8t8ses are  ov998.008il r140   Woos* .  4.14 d it8y..
J toelr  . prnoia -



S. Maior Interest Bates on Loans and Discounts of Deposit Money Banks 1/
B-1  Comercial Banks  2/
Effective    Discount on        -Loans on 3/                    Loans on other bills                                   Loan                          ultual Intallent Loans
irad                                       ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~overdraft  Installment   call Loan  I St         2 ad
Date          Cocmercial bills  foreign trade  up to 1yc:a  1-3 year   3-8 year   8-10 yar                             Savings      C           dicinishing    dimininsh-g -
bills                .I bi.
A 17.5                           A 17.5(18.5)  17.5         18.5         19.5      A18.5(19.5)   A15.5(16.5)        1                              1
Nov.30,1981      B 18.0              15.0         B 18.0(19.0)  18.0          19.0        20.0       B19.0(20.0)   B16.0(17.0)         .           18.00            17.64
Dec:29           A 16.5              15.0         A 16.5(17.5)  16.5          17.5        18.5       A16.5(17.5)   A5.5(16.5)    17.0               18.00           17.6
B 17.0                           B 17.0(18.0)  17.0         18.0        19.0       817.0(18.0)   B16.0(17.0)          *1.6
Jan.14,1982      A 15.5              12.0         A15.55(175)   15.5          16.5        17.5       A15.50(6.       1 A1 J.506.5)    16.0          16.80           16.40
an.,        1~~16.0                          B16.0(17.0)   16.0          17.0        18.0       B16.0(17.0)   B16.0(37.0)
Mar.29      ~A 13.5              110          A13.5(15.0)   13.5          14.5        15.5                      A13.5(15.0)    1                52               47
Mar.29           A14011;0                         B4OI.) 1                     4        60            14.0(15.5)   A1   t55          16.0          15.24            14.76
B 14.0                           914.0(15.5)   14.0         15.0        16.0        B40155          14.0(15.5)
June 28          10.0                10.0                         10.0(11.0)                          10.0(11.0)    10.0(11.0)         *           11.04            10.68
Feb. 1,1983      10.0                10.0                         10.0(11.0)                          10.0(11.0)    10.0(11-0)          '          11.04            10.68
J3an23,1984    10.0 - 10.5           10.0                         (l10.0-10.5                      10 ( -10.5     10.  1.5           *           11.64            11.28
Jun23e9I 4    10.0 - lO.S            10.0                         (;11.0-11.5)                       (11.0-11.5)   (11.0-11.5)
JuNe 5         10.0 - 10.5           10.0                         (10.0-10.5                       10.0-10.5      10.0-10.5                      11.64            11.28
June ,1985    10.0 - 11.5            10.0                         (11.0-11.5)                        (11.0-11.5)   (11.0-11.5)
Arilo.  1      10.0 - 11.5           10.0        10i0_lli5        10i0-'3 5                          10.0-11.5      10.0-11.5          *           12.64            12.28
NOc. 15        10.0 - 11.5           10.0                         1 010.0                             11.01-1.5)      i.coii5          *           12.64            12.28
Febr14,1985    10.0 - II.S           10.0        (li O ii         (11.0-12.5)                        (11.0-12.5)   (11.0-12.5)                     12.64            12.28
April 19       10.0 - 11.5           10.0        10.0-11.5        10.0-13.5                          10.0-11.5      10.0-11.5          *           12.64            12.28
(11.0-12.5)    (11.0-13.5)                         (11.0-12.5)   (11.0-12.5)
Oct. 11  10.0- 11.5      10.0        10.0-11.5       10.0-13.0                           10.0-11.5      10.0-11.5126128
Oct. 24        10.0 - 11.5           10.0        (S110125)    (11.0-13.0)                           (li0-12.5)   (11.0-12.5)         *           12.64            12.28
Feb 14,1986   10.0 - 11.5            10.0        10.0-11.5        10.0-13.0                          10.0-11.5      10.0-11.5          *12.64                       12.28
(11.0-12.5)    (11.0-13.0)                         (11.0-12.5)   (11.0-12.5)
Mar. 7         10.0 - 11.5           10.0        10.0-11.5        10.0-13.0                          10.0-11.5      10.0-11.5          *12.64                       12.28
(11.0-12.5)    (11 .0-13.0)                        (11.0-12.5)   (11.0-12.5)
Mar. 24        10.0 - 11.5           10.0        10.0-11.5        10.0-12.0                          10.0-11.5      10.0-12.0          C12.64                       12.28
(11.0-12.5)    (11.0-13.0)                         (11.0-12.5)   (11.0-13.0)
note  I/ "A" represents the primae rate that applied to prime enterprises, and "B" non-prime rate.                                                                         .
2/  Applied also to Loans aad discounts of specialized banks, and figures in parentheses are interest rates on Loans and discounts of local banks    &
3/  Bills related with Loans for general export and import, for export of construction and services and for export preparation of agicultur5l and                   m
marine products.
4/  For the period from Jun. 28, 1982 to Nov. 4, 1984, average interest rate of CP sold ;n the CP market two business days before and market interesto
rate thereafter.
5/  Market interest rate from Mar. 1, 1986



(In percent per annum)
Loans on            -              Advanced to    Loans                Loans  with  NIF
3 rd           4 thi         Collateral of        -       -    factored                   Loans for         LoaX%s for         Ohr
diminishing    diminishing    Mutual installment    LoaC k           Clients       overdue    Ln           _efor                    Others
17.28          16.92              3 16.0                -             -           26.0        14.0            15.0 - 16.0   15.5 - 16.5
17.28          16.92              8 16.0                -            -            25.0        14.0            15.0 - 16.0   15.5 - 16.5
16.10          15.70                 16.0               -             -           24.0        14.0            15.0 - 16.0   15.5 - 16.5
13.44          11.76                 14.0               -             -           22.0        13.5            13.5 - 14.5   13.5 - 14.5
9.24           8.40                 10.0               -             -           18.0        10.0            10.0            10.0
9.24           8.40                 10.0               -             12.0        18.0        10.0            10.0            10.0
9.84           9.00            .10.0 - 10. 5           -             12.0        19.0      10.0 - 10.5       10.0 - 10.5   10.0 - 10.5
9.84           9.00             10.0- 10.5             12.0          12.0        19.0      10.0 - 10.5       10.0 - 10.5   10.0 - 10.5
10.84          10.00             10.0 - ll.S            12.0         12.0         19.0      10.0 - tl.5       10.0 - 11.5   10.0 - tl.5
10.84          10.00             10.0 - 11.5            13.0          12.0        19.0      10.0 - 11.5       10.0 - 11.5   10.0 - 11.5
10.84          10.00             10.0 - 11.5            13.0          12.0        19.0      10.0 - 11.5       10.0 - 11.5   10.0 - 11.5
10.84          10.00             10.0 - 11.5            12.75         12.0        19.0      10.0 - 11.5       10.0 - 11.5   10.0 - 11.5
10.84          10.00             10.0- 11.5             12.5          12.0        19.0      10.0- 11.5        10.0 - 11.5   10.0- 11.5
10.84          10.00             10.0 - 11.5             *            12.0        19.0      10.0 - 11.5       10.0 - 11 5   10.0 - 11.5
10.84          10.00             10.0 - 11.5             *            12.0       .19.0      10.0 -11.5        10.0 - 11.5   10.0 - 11.5
.                              .   . .     



5-3 torea Develonment Bank
(in percent per auunm
Fffective        ~aIrdustrial Funds                       1/                      Government Funds                            Foreign    3/    Foreign Loan
Date                       Equipment               operating               General Project          Speilt                    F                 Funds
June 28, 1982                10.0                    10.0                          10.0                 7.5 - 10.0               15.0               7.5 - 11.25
Jan. 23, 1984                 10.0 - 10.5            10.0 - 10.5                   10.0                 7.5 - 10.0               10.6 - 12.5        7.5 - 11.25
Nov. 5                        10.0- 11.5             10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                 7.5 - 10.0               10.6 - 14.3        7.5- 11.25
Jan. 1, 1985                 10.0 - 11.5             10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                 5.5 - 10.0               10.4 - 12.7        7.5 - 11.39
Mar. 11                       10.0 - 13.0            10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                  5.5 - 10.0              10.4 - 12.7        7.5 - 11.39
Apr. 19                       10.0 - 13.5            10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                 5.5 - 10.0               10.5 - 12.6        7.5 - 11.39
July I                       10.0 - 13.5             10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                 5.5 - 10.0               10.5 - 11.0        7.5 - 11.25
Oct. 11                      10.0 - 13.0             10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                 5.5 - 10.0               10.5 - 11.0        7.5 - 11.25
Jan. 16, 1986                10.0 - 13.0             10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                 5.5 - 10.0               10.0 - 11.0        7.5 - 11.25
Mar. 24                      10.0- 13.0              10.0 - 11.5                   10.0                  5.5 - 10.0              LIBOR+2.0(1.5)    7.5- 11.25
(10.0 - 11.0)                                                                                      LTPR+2.0 (1.5)
Note   I/  The Figures in Parentbeses are applied to manufacturing industry.
2/ Includes funds for power development, coal mining, public utilities and marine transportation, etc.
3/ Includes bank loan funds, foreign currency deposits and AtD, KFW, ADB revolving funds.
Figures in parentheses are applied to Loans covered by letter of guarantee.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
REPUBLSC OR FOREA
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK (LOAN 2144-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
List of Shareholders
(as of December 31, 1987)
Amount
Shareholder                  No. of shares      (Won million)        X
Government                        13,935,288          69,676.4          72.6
Government Pension Management
Corp.                            1,231,834           6,159.2          6.4
Commercial Banks                   4.017.364          20.086.8         20.9
Hanil Bank                           932.832           4,664.2          4.9
Korea First B&nk                     932,087           4,660.4           4.8
Cho-Heung Bank                       788,627           3,943.1          4.1
Covmercial Bank of Korea             788,627           3,943.1           4.1
Bank of Seoul                        575.191           2,876.0           3.0
Others                                15,717              78.6           0.1
Total                        19.200.203         96.001.0         100.0



- 33 -A 
a. i     !                                 - .8-    
il          t.                        0    gs
|1~~~~~~~'                                                        a 1 qg      :     
21  |  41        !   t      3E  ||  w    |            I       o   e~~~~I 
-   §2    E 'u 
*1 !fz                     a           Iers 
I ~                       
X t  |   s   E   X   j   1   j   i  j
U  ~s                               Si  i i  



- 34 -
MAln 4
(as of December 31, 1987)
fl..S .
__ .. 
-~~~~~~~* -! .-.
1-----                       r  .
G                   ,~~~~~~~~~~~e.. m,,tU.
1~~~~~~~~. s-..t I     S,    _.U U.. t



- 35 -                               ANNEX 5-1
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK (LOAN 2144-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
£chedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
IBRD                       Estimated  /a                Actual.
Fiscal year and quarter          Amount        2   lb    Amount         X   lb
FY 1983
Jul. - Sep. 1982                      -        -               -        -
Oct. - Dec. 1982                      -        -               -        -
Jan. - Mar. 1983                    100        0.3             -        -
Apr. - Jun. 1983                    500        2.0           S83        1.9
Subtotal                         600        2.0           583       1.9
FY 1984
Jul. - Sep. 1983                  1,000        5.3           268        2.8
Oct. - Dec. 1983                  3,400       16.7         2,562       11.4
Jan. - Mar. 1984                  4,500       31.7         4,167       25.3
Apr. - Jun. 1984                  4,500       46.7         3,542       37.1
Sub-total                     13,400       46.7       10,539       37.1
FY 1985
Jul. - Sep. 1984                  4,000       60.0         2,919       46.8
Oct. - Dec. 1984                  3,500       71.7         2,294       54.5
Jan. - Mar. 1985                  2,500       80.0         3,746       66.9
Apr. - Jun. 1985                  2.000       86.7         3,664       79.2
Sub-total                     12,000      86.7        12,623       79.2
FY 1986
Jul. - Sep. 1985                  1,500       91.7         3,280       90.1
Oct. - Dec. 1985                  1,000       95.0           482       91.7
Jan. - Mar. 1986                    500       96.7           650       93.9
Apr. - Jun. 1986                    500       98.3             -        -
Sub-total                      3,500      98.30        4,412       93.9
FY 1987
Jul. - Sep. 1986                    500      100.0            45       94.0
Sub-total                        500     100.0             45      94.0
Residual /c                           _        -           1.798        6.0
Total                         30,000     100.0        30,000      100.0
/a Estimated at appraisal of Loan 2144-KO.
Tb Percentages are cumulative.
15 This unallocated amount has been cancelled on June 16, 1988.



- 36 -                                  ANNEX 5-2
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2215-310)
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS '000)
IBRD                       Estimated  /a                Actual
Fiscal year and quarter          Amount        X   /b    Amount        2   lb
FY 1984
Jul. - Sep. 1983                  1,500       15.0             -       _
Oct. - Dec. 1983                  1,500       30.0             -       _
Jan. - Mar. 1984                  1,500       45.0             -       -
Apr. - Jun. 1984                  1.500       60.0             -        -
Sub-total                         6,000       60.0
FY 1985
Jul. - Sep. 1984                  1,000       70.0            63       0.6
Oct. - Dec. 1984                  1,000       80.0            69        1.3
Jan. - Mar. 1985                    500       85.0            33       1.7
Apr. - Jun. 1985                    500       90.0           333        5.0
Sub-total                         3,000       90.0           498       5.0
FY 1986
Jul. - Sep. 1985                    500       95.0           811      13.1
Oct. - Dec. 1985                    250       97.5         1,348      26.6
Jan. - Mar. 1986                    250      100.0         1,802      44.6
Apr. - Jun. 1986                      -        -           2,335      67.9
Sub-total                         1,000      100.0        6,296       67.9
FY 1987
Jul. - Sep. 1986                      -        -          1,660       84.5
Oct. - Dec. 1986                      -        -           1.044      95.0
Jan. - Mar. 1987                      -        -             424      99.2
Sub-total                                                 3.128      992.
Residual /c                           -        -              78       0.8
Total                            10,000      100.0       10,000      100.0
/a Estimated at appraisal of Loan 2215-3KO
Tb5 Percentages are cumulative
Tc This unallocated amount has been cancelled on March 27, 1987.



- 37 -                              ANNEX 6-1
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK (LOAN 2144-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Details of Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2144-KO
Amount
No.          ($'000)        2
A.  Purpose
New                                    115           9,157        32.5
Expansion                              199          18,680         66.2
Balancing, Modernization and
Replacement                            6             365         1.3
Total                            320          28,202        100
B.  Sub-sectoral distribution
Manufacturing                          205          15,204         53.9
Fooa, DFvege and tobacco               )71           5,du         7V7
Textile, wearing apparel and
leather                               44          2,436          8.6
Wood and wood products                   2             191          0.7
Paper, paper products and printing    34             1,988          7.0
Chemicals and petroleum, coal,
rubber and plastic products           16          1,590          5.6
Non-metallic mineral products            8             698          2.5
Basic metals                             2             241          0.9
Metal products, machinery and
products                              24           1,971         7.0
others                                   4             281          1.0
Non-manufacturing                      115          12 998         46.1
mining                                   1             Dt534      -rv
Transportation                           1             544          1.9
Construction                            21           2,542          9.0
Service                                 92           9,378         33.3
Total                             320         28,202        100
C.  Geographical distribution
Seoul City                             153          13,287        47.1
Kyung-gi province                       43           4,097         14.5
South Chungcheong province              14             914          3.3
North Chungcheong province               8           1,293          4.6
Kangwon province                         1              46          0.2
South Jeonra province                   58           3,985         14.1
North Jeonra province                    8             767          2.7
South Kyungsang province                 9             S18          1.8
North Eyungsang province                10           1,411          5.0
Pusan City                              15           1,794          6.4
Cheju province                           1              90          0.3
Total                             320         28,202        100



ANNEX 6-2
- 38 -
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM MACHINERY INDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2215-3K0)
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
PROJECT SuMPLETION REPORT
Details of Subproiects Financed Under Loan 2215-3Z0
Amount
No.         ($'000)         I
A.  Purpose
New                                    15           1,992        20.1
Expansion                              86           7,669        77.3
Balancing, Modernization and
Replacement                           4            261          2.6
Tcutal                           105          9,922        100
B. Sub-sectoral dWstribution
Manufacturing                          90           8,746        88.1
-ooa, Deverage and tobacco             -I             "sr
Textile, wearing apparel and
leather                              20          1,724         17.4
Wood and wood products                                  -         -
Paper, paper products and printing    16            1,958        19.7
Chemicals and petroleum, coal,
rubber and plastic products          10            785          7.9
Non-metallic mineral products           7             478         4.8
Basic metals                            -               -         -
Metal products, machinery and
oroducts                             34          3,625         36.5
others                                  2             124         1.3
Non-manufacturing                      15           1,176        11.9
Transportation                                          -         -
Construction                            4             552         5.6
Service                                11             624         6.3
Total                            105          9,922        100
C. Geographical distribution
Seoul City                             53           4,647  '     46.8
Kyun -gi province                      41           4,260        42.9
South Chungcheong province              3             177         1.8
North Chungcheong province              -               1         -
Kangwon province                        1               1         0.5
South Jeonra province                                   -         -
North Jeonra province                                   -         -
South Kyungsang province                1              63         0.7
North Kyungsang province                2             499         5.0
Pusan Clty                              4             225         2.3
Cheju province                          -               -         -
Total                            105          9,922        100



List of subprojet* c iOaeued unde Lo"  2144-KO
Sub-               *~~~~~t lam iaIit@atiCfl   Toa w   t m -                                          "        A-
sub'  ftwm         la                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o 4tt*  Eattmw Actunt Bit fuome  Caaity 
Subjt        Lt o        Tot      t        t            1 Aa   2od tot al 1  _  *-- fl *ojach   amo
Subproject                P            tOf         Ta  TOW         T) bI d  Sex1  S4                                                          oenth   of          of
tto.      p      ujet 4a"s   aoed             am><bets cm    GOTT            al Viltion)                                     Ip_M"W
(W mullion)    OeItia,)
SaeYTna  Heavy Machinery               A-001  Repaid
Ren Jin Reavy Equipment Co.            A-002  Prepaid
Choong Book Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  A-003
Sam Kwang Constr. Machinery Co.        A-004
luau Heavy Equipment Co., Ltd.         A-005      S      Exp      54     18   133   111   133    -        -          74             55.6      9/83   9/83   -       Japan       PC
Seam Yau Development Co.               A-006  Prepaid
Han Chang Industrial Co.               A-007
Shin Sung Industrial Co.               A-008
Han Heavy Equipment Co., Ltd.          A-009
Dae Jong Heavy Equipment.              A-010     S       New      20     -    454   431   460        6    .         365             79.3      5/85   4/85   -1    W/Germany  ILCB
Dae lin Textile Co., Ltd.              A-OI1   Prepaid
Hva Jin Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.         A-012
Sung Bo Neavy Equip. Co., Ltd.         A-013
Dae Heavy Mach. Co., Ltd.              A-O'4
Jung Suck Constr. Co., Ltd.            A-015     C       Exp      830    14   547   478   550        3    30        452              87.6     8/85   8/85   -       W/Germany  ILCB
Sam Lip Printing Co.                   A-016  Prepaid
Shin  waeng RD Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.B-OOl   Repaid
Jeoon Ma  Heavy Equipment              B-002  Prepaid
Bea Chul Clinic                        B-003      "
8uau Heavy Equipment                   B-004      S      zip      54       5   222   222   222    -                 185              83.3      7/83   7/83   -      Japan        PC
Moon Uwe Color Co.                     B-005   Prepaid
Sung No Medicines Co.                  B-006
Dong In Textile Co.                    B-010
Sunchunhyang Clinic                    B-011      s      Exp    202       18    57    35    57    -        10        28              66.7     2/84   2/84   -       U.S.A.       ILCB
Sin An Sajin Jepan Co.                 B-012  ipepaid
I-
o.4
_-# *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



7-1  List of subprojects Finaced nder Loan 2144-K0
Sub-                     Rtelo  .,licacian    maw* oiet                       mc-*.   -
Noture                                             z of tow    ~~~~~~~~totiatd Actal Difftw   Gmay  l
Subgrojoct       project  10*J icntry of  Tocal  Tout          =Fund  Act   Cmt  Loa                       p IOeJt tmtf                                  09
Snbproj Eto.                               Project  <Ite Ob t ut                                     (W    m) mil pion
(W illion)    Of million)
Sam Jin Co.                          B-013    F        New       7     11    84    74    85        1    5          58             74.1      2/84   2/84   -       Japan       UICB
Mi Do Co.                            B-014    F        New      19     28    77    64    77    -        -          58             75.3      2/84   2/84   -                     i
Hae Seo Co.                          B-015    F        New     35      13    71    64    70    -1    -             59             84.3      2/84   2/84   -         n      
Jae t1 Co.                           8-016    F       New      22      11    76    69    76    -        -          59             77.6      2/84   2/84   -
Rvan Dong Co.                        B-017    P       New      40      12    83    70    85       2    -           64             75.3      2/84   2/84   -
oae Yang Co.                         B-018    F       New      46      12    83    70    84       1    -           63             75.0      2/84   2/84   -
Nu Dong Co.                          B-019    F       New      42      11    89    72    90       1    -           50             55.6      2/84   2/84   -
Hva Sung Co.                         B-020    F       Nev      39      11    71    63    70    -I    -             59             84.3      2/84   2/84   -
Hva Weon Co.                         8-021    F        Exp     97      28    65    50    65    -        -          51             78.5      2/84   2/84   -
oDe 11 Constr. Co.                   B-022  Prepaid
Du Sung Heavy Machinery Co.          8-023
Shin Heung Heavy Equip. Co.          B-024    S       Exp      12       9   278   258   280    2        -        202              72.1      3/84   3/84   -       Japan       ILC8
Man Ro Co.                           B-025    F       Nev      35      11    84    77    85    1        -          59             69.4      2/84   2/84   -         n
x4i Seong Co.                        8-026  Prepaid
Byun Shan Co.                        B-027    I
Dae Weon Co.                         3-028    F       New      22      11    98    85   100    2        25         59             84.0     4/84   3184   -1    Japan         UIC8
Te Kun Heavy Equip. Mach. Co.        1-029    S       Exp    189        6    90    88    90    -        -          67             74.4    12/83   1/84   +1                     n
Dan$ So Co.                          8-030    F       Exp      53      13   104    64   104             -         65              62.5      3/84   3/84   -
Sun Ha Co.                           B-031    F       New      25      13    69    65    70       1    -           58             82.9      2/84   2/84   -
Sa Dil Constr. Machinery Co.         3-033    S       Exp    147       14   177   177   180    3        -         139             77.2      1/84   1/84   -      U.S.A.
flak Ga Co.                          B-034    F       New      15      11    75    70    75    -        -         64              85.3      4/84   3/84   -1    Japan
Shin Tae Yang Constr. Co., Ltd.   8-035    C          Exp    715       12   188   166   190    2        -         144             75.8    12/83  12/83   -        W/Germany
Utt Seong Co; -   -        -    -  B-036    F         New      16      11    72    66    72    -        -          59             81.9      3/.84   3/84   -     Japan
Woo Shin Industry Co., Ltd.          B-037    N       Exp      45       8   248   219   248    -        55         79             54.0      9/83   9/83   -       Korea       PC
Korea X-Rays Clinic                  B-038  Prepaid
*                                     l}~~~~~~~~
_..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o .



7-1  List of *ubproj*cts Fifenced uoder Loa 2144-KO
Sub-             Means         mnicsti   E63  E                                                                    ,.
Subproject              Pr j"°   Inotc  of         elTta          Total od k          t     l                      pjwpt cpt
(W Million)    w1 Iillr                                                       .
Weon Co.                         B-039     F       New      33      11      90   77  90       -     -          51            56.7        2/84  2/84   -        Japan      ILCB
Doug Ab Co.                      B-040  Prepaid
Jeong Seok Heavy Equipment    B-041        "
Soo Do Heavy Equipmient          8-042     S       Exp     59        9    113  106 113       -      20         31            45.1        1/84  1/84   -        Japan      PC
Weonperi Co.                     B-043     F       New     66       11      92   65  92      -      -          60            65.2        2184  2(84             *pan      ILC8
D e Seong Co.                    8-044     F       New      19      11      16   70  85      -1    -           64            75.3        2/84  2/84
Dee Lim Co.                      B-045     F       New      9       11      ,9   77  80      1      -          59            73.8       11/83 12/83  *1
Dong Shin Co.                    B-046     F       New     29       10      77   74  77      -      -          59            76.6        2/84  2/84   -
Tae Chang Co.                    B-047     F       New       9      11      65   58  65      -      -          51            78.5        2/84  2184   -
Rae Sung Co.                     B-049     F       Exp     31       12      80   66  80      -      -          60            75.0        2/84  2/84   -                    n
Dong Yang Co.                    B-050  Prepaid
Dado Co.                         B-051     F       Exp     52        7      73   62  73      -      -          52            71.2        3/84  3/84   -        Japan      lLCBE
Pyung Suck Co.                   B-052     F       New      10      12      74   58  74             -          52            70.3        4/84  4/84   -
Dong Xi Co.                      B-053     F       New     47       12      74   58  74             -          54            73.0        5/84  4/84   -1
Kei Seong Co.                    B-054     F       New     64       11    116  108 120       4      -          51            42.5        4/84  4/84
Nan Ryo Foods Co.                B-055  Prepaid
Dae-A Lead Wire Co., Ltd.        B-056    MA       Exp    991       51    227  140 230       3      -          91            39.6        2/84  2/84   -         apan      ILCB
Young Kweng Co.                  B-057     P       Exp    117       22      36   30  36      -      -          24            66.7        1/84  1/84   -
Dae Chang Co.                    B-059     F       New     27       11      66   58  66      -      -          49            74.2        2/84  2/84   -
Ro Nah Auto Ind., Co.            8-060    S        cxp    351       95      79   79  80      1      -          58            72.5        2/84  2/84   -        Japan      ILCB
I1 Deung Co.                    B-061  Prepaid
Sam Jin Industrial Co.           8-062     B
Sam Jin Co.                      B-063    F       New      26       -       87   75  87      -      -          49            56.3        1/84  3/84   -        Japan      ILCB
Song Gong Co.                    B-064    F        New     15       1       72   66  72      -      -          63            87.5        ,/84  3/84   -        Japan      ILCB
Nam  Yang Co.                    B-065  Prepaid
V



7-1  Liot ot subprojects riamaed under Loaf  2144-TO                                                                -
at low avsicatim,   TO       Djw
subproject                rjpoect                                                                                                          m ofth TOIiCti  of  of
Iudta      pO  jC    otal  TotAl          Oj  Aenal  ¢s    b nie.                                                        a x      
tl oflflio)    S odfllai)
Sam  iia  Foods Co., Ltd.           8-066    F       Exp    446       76    121   69 120       -1    -          54            45.0       2/84  2/84   -        U.S.A.      LCI
DOl Suag Co.                        8-067    F       zxp    116       17    191  145 195      4      40        100            71.8       2/84  2/84   -        Japan      ILC8
Uri Color Co.                       B-068    S       Nov      70       5      47   45  47      -     10         31            87.2        1/84  1/84   -       Japan      lLC8
Ryung ho Embroidery Co.             B-069    T       Exp    51        13      37   30  37      -    10          24            91.9        2/84  2/84   -          ""
Do kwan, Construction Co.' Ltd.   3-070    c         Zp    192        20      46   46  46      -     -          34            73.9        1/84  1/84   -       W/Germy  "
Ban Zook Sang cong Sa               B-071    C       Eip    127       13    134  120 130       -4    -          34            26.2        1/84  1/84   -
Dan Ban Road Line Paint Co., Ltd. B-072    c         Exp    191       19      60   46  60      -     -          34            56.7        1/84  1/84   -
Seong Jang Co.                      B-073    F       New    125        1      86   75  90      4     10         61            78.9        3/84  2/84   -1      Japan               t
Ka Ka Co.                           B-074  Prepaid
Shin An Co.                         B-075    F       Nev      21       1       77  67  80      3     10         53            78.8        3/84  3/84   -       Japan      lLCB
Ran gook Geological Co., Ltd.       B-076    C       New      41       4    115  108 115       -     35         53            76.5        3/84  3/84   -       Sweden      "
Kyung Jin Co.                       B-077    F       New      19        1    145  132 150      5     10        118            85.3        3/84  3/84   -       Japan g
man Poong Co.                       B-078    F       New      20        1     65   58  65      -                50            76.9        3/84  3/84   -
Dae Cheon Co.                       B-079  Prepaid
Chun In Co.                         B-080    F       Exp      40        8     97   64  95      -2    20         57            81.1        2/84  3/84  +1       Japan      ILCB
Jeon Nam Co.                        B-081  Prepaid
Chil Sung Co.                       B-082    F       Exp      33        8     75   63  75      -      -         57            76.0        3/84  3/84   -       Japan      ILCB
Ik Cum Co.                          B-083    F       New      20        1     77   71  77      -    -           63            81.2        3/84  3/84   -
Sam Yong Construction Co.           5-084    C        Exp    157       13     59   38  60      1     20         30            83.3       11/83 12/83 + 1        Italy              i
Chung Ju Cihem, IVd. Co.            B-085    CR      Exp    126         8     69   57  69      -      -          29           42.0       11/83  11/83  -       Korea    . PC
Sang Shin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-087    S          Exp     58        4    180  175 180      -      -        142            78.9       12/83 12/83   -       Japan      ILCB
I= Chi NongCo.                      B-088    F       Nev      26        1     78   71  78      -      -         63            80.8        4/84  3/84   -1
Sl11wang .bO.                       3B-089_           Nev_  25               1 16   99 120.   4       25        64            74  .2      3J84  3J8_ -
T Sae Won Co.                           B-090  Prepaid
Mae Von Co.                         B-091
_  ___   ________   _ _  __   __   _    ___   _    _   __   __   _  _____   _                             _ ____                 S0     i



7-1   Lst at Subprojects Fiamead _si Loan 2144K0 O
St 7 _ , s_ _ - _                            n
Sub-             pause                              _                                                  tm      " -    -  t 
oPCroject   l(of         TOa   Tl        "    FIth   of a*
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o                            9lc    nd       woe           oe~h  1i)~-
Da xi Co.                          B-092  Prepaid                                                                                                                                 -
Sung Buk Food Co.                  B-093    F        NMw    116        1    108   95 110       2     20          65            77.3        3/84  3/84   -       Japan      ILCB  *
Dae tok Co.                        B-094  Prepaid                                                                                                                                 a
Sl Rae Co.                         B-095    F        Nev     36        1      78   71  75      -3    -           63            84.0        3/84  3/84   -        Japan     ILCB  l
Sam Yang foods Co.                 3-097  Prepaid                                                                                                         .
Sbin  Soong Steel Co., Ltd.        3-098    "
GCang II Co.                       3-0"      F       New     17       -       88   81  88      -      -          63            71.6        3/84  3/84   -        JapAn    1IB
8Wasung Ind. Co.                   B-100  Prepaid
Man so Co.                         3-101     F       Nev       8      1       58   49  58      -      5          42            81.0        2/84  2/84   -        Japan      TnrR
Won I1 maebinery Ind. Co.          B-102  Prepaid
Young Doug Color Devel. Co.        B-103
Daewoo Eeavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-104         '
Dee Yang Co.                       B-105
Dae Dook Hospital                  3-106     "
Xi Kvang Color Devel. Co.          B-109    n
One Color Devel. Co.               3-111     n
| Dog Bang Medical Businesa Co.  3-112
yunadai Civil sag. 4 Coast. Co. B-113    C           Exp    110       10      53   47  53      -      -          28            52.8        3/84  3/84   .        Korea      PC
I wa Sung Trading Co.              5-114  Prepaid
Shin Eva Conasruction Co.          3-115    if
Cboag Soap Reavy Equip.            B-116     s       sup     30        3      46   44  46      -      -          36            78.3        4/84  S/84  +1        U.S.A.    nLCE
So. no D eavy Equip.               B-117  Prepaid
Jeon _ok S   eak y Equip. Co._  B-118  n-
Dong Sung Reavy Equip.             3-119     5       6Ip    124        8    120  119 120       -      -          72            60.0        4184  4/84   -        Korea      PC
Shin Wood Ind. Co.                 B-120  Prepaid
_   _  ..  .. .. .. _ { j~~I!



7-1 List of *ubptOJOcts Fio*acO dsi T LoAn 2144-K0
Sub-                    at leaa U jesima                                         s
Subproject              p    t                                              s af t t 1.al ce can                                            t
lndmistry of  I  total   toaL It CneJ  (ot .os              .n.v no anl lfav    my ku
Ne. px>,oject  msets a ayes            manS Ot   intou             (U aillUot                     ~
{1@ unilu)    u imiltn).-
Duck Sung Reavy Equip.              B-123    S       Exp      52       4    234  229 225      -9    -        109            48.4       7/84  7/84   -       Italy     ILCB
Chong Ivap Heavy Equip. Co.         B-124    S       Exp      30       5     63   62  63      -     -         46            73.0       6/84  5/84   -1      WlCertany
Dae Lis Chemical Ind. Co.           B-125    Ca      Exp    265        9    281   96 181     -      -         46            25.4       5/84  5/84   -       Korea     PC
Young Jin lRey Equip.               B-127  Prepaid
Woo Civil Etugineering Co., Ltd.    B-128
8u Sung Heavy Machinery Co., Ltd. B-129
Jell Boring Co.                     B-130
Park leung-to X-lay Clinic          B-131
lyup mang Pringting Co.             8-132    P       Exp     72        7    105   99 105     -      -         77            73.3       5/84  5/84   -       Japan     lLCB
Sam Be Eeavy Machinery              B-133    C       Exp    611       16     92   92  90     -2    -          71            78.9       7184  6t84   -1      Japan     I
Dae Sung Co.                        3s-134  Prepaid
Hyun See Embroidery                 B-135    T       Lip    155       14     52   39  52     -      10        28            73.1       7/84  7/84   -       Japan    4LC    t
Silra Embroidery Co.                B-136    T       Exp    157      14      76   57  76     -      16        41           75.0        7/84  7184   -       Japan
Ryunui D.P.                         3-138  Prepaid
Youngwon Industrial Co.             B-139
To ltun aesvy Equip. Mucb.          B-140    S       Exp    320       11   281  280 281   - -      -         171           60.9        6/84  6/84   -      Korea      PC
Sam 11 Constr. Mach.                B-142    S       Lip    105      13    218  218 228      10    -          188          82.5       10/84 11/84  *1      France    17C.
Seong Won 'tnd. Co.                 1-143  Prepaid
Baik Evra Special Glove MFG.        B-144
Eva Sung Co.                        B-145
Shin ReimS Packing Paper            B-147    "
Seban Printing Co.                  B-148                                                                                                                         .*
laik     Pbethd.   -~--B           1i49-T--- Xew-- 38--   -*-*-30-- 27- 30- }. .28--                                     -- 60.0- -9/843-9/84-30 2- J0
Sa. Mi Industry Co.                 B-150 Prepaid
lyo Chang Ind. Co.                  B-251    -
. . . , , , . . . , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 
.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  '   '                                                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,
!                                      *                                      '       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



.1.
ti.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
at tost of *"atot tp iA      C     _       21444.0
Sub-                     atmm  tou  lm                                                                          - 1O A                         _
tprojat   lta7 Of                                   AM oTtt  loca1   l Fu   Aa tdc1         ;D leet                  Difft reec * 
Subproject                                          Tta   T                                                                                              wiota'  tl
( Millia)    of iilli)                                                                                               I
RnA  Cook Decal Co., Ltd.           B-152    P        Exp    220       40    112   30 110        -2    28          20            43.6        8/84  7/84   -1       Japan      nLCB
Hyup Wang Printing Co.              B-153    P        Esp      72        7     78   66  75       -3    -           49            65.3        7184  7/84   -                    "
Pyung BHv  Ind. Co.                 B-IS4  Prepaid                                                                                                                                     |
Dokil Bed Co.                       B-155    W        Lip      31       15    108   56 113       5      10         41            45.1        9/84  10/84 .1        Switzerlan 'd
Sae  Sung Printing Co.              B-156    P        lip      69        5     59   54  60       1      10         37            78.3        7/84  7/84   -        Japan       "
DonS Ham Neat Process Co., Ltd. B-157   Brepaid
Bong "vang titerprise               B-159     C       Exp    138        17     53   S3  55       2      _          42            76.4        9/84  9/84   -        Belgium
Tong 11 4eavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-160  Prepaid
fyup Sung Enterprise                B-161     C       Exp      61        3    105  100 110       5                 39            35.5        7/84  9/84 +2          Belgium    LCB.0
Asia Ind. Co.                       B-162     0       Exp    108        35     47   31  47       -      10         12            46.8        7/84  7/84   -         Japan       "
"an tok Tannin Co., Ltd.            3-164   Prepaid
Young  Buk Co.                      B-165     "
Chun No Co.                         B-166     T       ESp    152         8      45   35 45       -      10         26            80.0        9/84  9/84   -         Japan      IICB
Shin  Sung Ind. Co.                 B-167     T       Exp      75       13      S0   36  50      -      10         27            74.0        9184  9184   -         Japan 
Subeung Ind. Co.                    B-168      T      Netw     12       -       38   29  38      -      -          20             52.6        9/84  9/84   -          "  
gum Chang Fiber Co.                 B-169   Prepeid
Kyung  oeung Ind. Co.               B-170     "t
Jeon Suk Neavy Equip.               B-171      8      Exp    187        10      99   78 105      6      _          63             60.0        9/84  9/84   -        Italy      ILCB
Ta. Bak Co.                         3-172   Prepaid
Toung Nam Trading Co.               B-173      "
Kuma Poo8g Cloves Ind. Co.          3-174
17ym Dae tabroidery Co.             B-176      " 
*       of-ind.-0or---             3A1---- -t                -                          -                                ____
Sam Hong  Beevy Equip. Co., Ltd. B-179          n                                                                                                                                     1
aUn Vo, lod. Co.                    B-180



7-1  List of subprojects Pinnaed undo  Loon 2144-RtO
Sub-                     rt oeft                                                                                          0 licatico
°bproject uja>st                                                         W (  illi"  ) *                   p        t    of          o
dtirUmii    *llin)                                                          .  
Fu3ica Color Co.                     B-181  Prepaid                                                                                                                                .
Dong Shin Sobsuggi Co.               1-182    S        Exp       7       6     64   31  64      -      -          32            50.0       9/84  9/84   -        Japan      I1CB
88 Color Devel. Co.                  B-183    S        Exp      17       1     75   69  75      -                 31           41.3        10/84 10/84  -        Japan     ILCB
Bong Rae Heavy Machinery Co.         B-184    S        Exp    136       11     41   41  41      _      _          32            78.0      10/84 10/84   -                   n
Doug II Silk Co.                     B-187    p        Eip      22      13     39   32  39      -      -          15            38.5      10/84 10/84   -. 
Doug Bang Printing Co.               B-188    p        Exp     69       25     46   32  46      -      -          24           52.2       11/84 10/84   -1
Tong LI Beavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       B-189  Prepaid
Cang Gyoung Bab Sa                   B-191    n
oun Do Food Ind. Co.                 8-192    F        new    180       -     527  447 540       13    70        214            52.6      11/84 12/84  .1        Japan     ILCB
Cu Rang Foods Co.                    B-194  Prepaid
Bo-tang Rug. Co.                     B-195
San Do Co.                           1-196    "                                                                                       ...
Ioo Jin Construction & Zug.          B-198    "
Sam lan Beavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       1-199    S        ELp    195        7     40   40  40      -      -          30            75.0       9/84  9/84   -        Japan     ULC8
Dea Jin Blinder Co.                  B-200    0        Lap     86       27     49   40  49      -      -          23           46.9        8/84  8/84   -
Kuk Jo General Printing Co.          1-201  Prelaid
Rva Sung Ind. Co.                    B-202    n
Dae Wba Foundation Ind. Co.          B-203    C        4 p    100       _     342  317 335      -7    47         197            72.8      12/84 11/84   -1       Japan     UCB
Te 11 Co.                            B-204    1        lea       8      _      51   42  55      4      8          32            72.7      11/84 11/84   -
Kywng Lti  Ind. Co.                  B-205  Prepaid
anm Do Oils Co., Ltd.                1-206    "
To Ova Sixing Ind. Co.               1-207
_ u     n    coMaition Print Co.  1-208                                                                                                _
To Sin Ind. Co.                      R-209
Hyun Doi Printing  Co.               5-210
_*-       .   .                            ',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-



7-1 List ef subproject Piame   Wa  Lo"e  2144-K0
at lam a.omtin     lta                             m                                   A
Subproject               p ojoct   as     ef     -Ttoui  IxT lut    Tal"Md Actm          Local                  proja*                     mth                at
(W nitlawJ    01 lium)
Oh Jae Dong Surgical Clinic       B-211  Prepaid
Young Wha Printing Co.             i-212     P     NeW      119      19      83   54  e5      2     15         42            67.1       10/84 10/84   -       Japan      ILCB
Kum Poong Fibet Co.               B-213    t        Exp      24       3      18   18  20     2                 13            65.0       12/84 12/84   -       Japan
Jin Sung Packaging Co.            B-214  Prepeid
Pat Ci Co., Ltd.                  B-215    n
Chang Sung Fiber Co.              B-216    n
Dseseong Co.                      3-217    "
Dong Yang Gloves Co.              B-219    T        Exp      91       5     42   30  42       -     -          22            52.4        1/85 12/64   -1      Japan      ILCB
San Kook Livestock Process Co.  B-220  Prepaid
teung I1 Printing Co.             8-221    p        Exp      68       8     40   31  40       -      9         24            82.5       12/84 12/84   -       Japan
Soo Gab kon X-Ray Clinic          B-223  Prepaid
Kosung Printing Co., Ltd.         B-224    n                                                                                                                                   i
Young Ram Co.                     B-225    "
Dug Sin Metal Co., Ltd.           B-227    "
No Do Wire Ind. Co., Ltd.         B-228    "
Sae Won Plastic Co.               B-229    n
Nam Sun Soring Ind., Co.          B-230    MA       Exp    132       50     35   35  35      _                 29            82.9        1/85  2/85  +1       Italy      ILCB
Sae  21 ld . Co., Ltd.            B-231  Prepaid
Voo Shin Ind. Co., Ltd.           1-232    a        gap    611       5'    149  128 149       -     -          73            49.0       11/84 11/84   -       Fores      PC
Ya Mba Siraing Ind. Co.           1-233  Prepaid
Jo tl  uls  u Co.                 3-234    n
Youagu "   hu Co.                 1-235    S        Eap      78       4     00   50. 60      -      10         32            70.0      11/S4 11/84   -        Japan      ILCI
5-:F    --  r.nitig-o. -   -. .                                                             --3.~Pepit  ---.  .--   -. .- .....       * .        * __
D eaa Yu ang Susan Co.            B-237    n
It Young Corp.                    3-238    "
'a0
04
.^                 *                      .                                                                                       ¢ ¢1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



7-1 Litt of oubproj*cto Ficnaned uwMr Loan 2144-KO
b-t low m1ication   Total  fet cma                                                                Co fa
Snbptojett               Prboc         ry of       Total  Total    TOW                                                                        o efcthX out  t c  OGf  of
no.              ymunjt  met  aplo"a         mets out  emann              tV uiUio)                                         ,rmen ox
(V milliCaI)    V aillim)
Ran Heoung Printing               B-239  Propaid
Shia Sung Ind. Co.                B-240      T      Exp      75       12     59   43  60       1     15         29             73.3       2185  2/85   -        Japan      ILCB
Sea Nan Food Co.                  B-241   Prepaid
Saa Hyup Tape Co.                 B-242      "
Duck Woo Chemical Co.             B-243
Ram Young Co.                     B-246
Seo Hyuc Gak Co.                  B-247      n
Tong 11 Heavy Mach Co., Ltd.    B-248        "
San Kuk Mivoola Co., Ltd.         8-249      "
Yeun Color Devel. Co.             B-250      S      New      17       -      56   48  56       -     -          31             55.4       1/85  2/85 +1         Japan      ILC8
Ban I1 Nemoo Co.                  B-251      P      8xp    248        52     86   38  80       -6    -          28            35.0        4/85  4/85   -
Sam Rae Laver Co., Ltd.           B-252      F      8xp    558        75    360  140 345       -15   40        116            45.2        5/85  3/85   -2         n.
Sam Cheun Ri Glass Co.            B-253  Prepaid
Sam Song Heavy Equip. Co.         8-254
Daa Ran Exporc Packing Co.         B-255
Dae Lim Co.                       8-256    T        Exp    182        75     74   45  74       -     30          33            85.1       2/85  2/85   -        Japan      TILC
Rainbow Q.S. Co.                  B-257  Prepaid
Dae Sung Chemical Ind. Co.        8-258    MA       Exp      51       12    173  163 180       7     20         85             58.3        1/85  1/85   -       Korea      PC
Saung Ran Knitting                8-259  Prepaid
Hee Mun Sa Co.                    8-260      p      Eip    238        30     87   46  87       -     20         34             62.1       3/85  3/85   -        U.S.A   ' IIC8
Seo Myun Neavy Equip.             B-261      s      Exp    144         4    237  222 243       6     -         202             83.1       2/85  2/85   -        W/Germany
| aue Jin Heavy Equip.             B-262  Prepaid
Dong-A Color beuie. Co.           B;263                     - 
Soo Bong Ind. Co.                 8-264    N        Exp    184        20     82   79  82       -     -          65             79.3      12/84 12/84   -        Korea      PC
Nyung Sung Wooden Co.              5-265  Prepaid
-          ..    _    .. .
. -                             - -__                      .                  --.  -   -.           o 
.                                      ot H~~~~~~~~-
_^S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -



71  List of subprojects Financd unbr Loan 2144-0
Sub-                     attmIlcton    oa  ocos                                           of towi    £stiw-d Actust Diffe'ece, camew, Un    -
ln& tryo    otu             oa aedkw          u   Local 2e
Subproject               pproject 'rbtyb    o     Total  Totl    To  F,                                               eztotb   of                             of
PO. pvp rj cploo                             :n                                                                                               1 oenn
(U eillan)    Ow millio)
Dong Bang Printins. Co.             B-267  Prepaid
Chin Chin Miul San Co.              8-268    "
Dong Shin Photo Co.                 B-269    S        New     26       -      45   32  45      -      _          27           60.0        5/85  5/85   -       Japan      ILCB
Hyub Woo Corp.                      B-271    0        Exp    352       70    164  137 160      -4    -          120            75.0       6/85  5/85   -1
Hong Won Moon Wha Sn                8-272  Prepaid
Seoul Video Product Co              B-273      '
Buli Ind. Co.                       3-274     "
Shin Ran Co.                        B-275     n
Man Do Co., Ltd.                    B-276    D        New     40        7    207  167 207      -      70         45            55.6       2/85  2185   -        Korea     PC
Dong Shin  Printing Co.             B-277  Prepaid
Sea Ran Photo Co.                   B-278
Sam Young Co., Ind.                 B-279
Kyang Shin Chemical Co.             B-280
Kyang Shin Chemical Co., Ltd.       B-281
Woo Lim Machinery Co.               B-282
Chung-Lin Color Co.                 B-283     n
Sam Young Co.                       B-284
Yoo-Lim Printing Co.                B-285
Chung Dnm Claas Co., Ltd.           B-286      n
Blog Rae Heavy Equip. Co.           B-287      S      ERp    239       12      38   34  38      -     -          29            76.3        4/85  5/85  +1       W/Germtn; ILCE
World Photo Co., Ltd.               3-288   Prepaid
Jaeil Printing Co.                  B-289                                                                                  -
D8e. Wang BPapar  .G.Co      _  _  3-290-- -_ n                              *                 * 
Tae Young Textile Co.               B-291      s      Ezp      290     15      91   91  90      -1    -          58            64.4        3/85  4/85  +1       Japan      ILCB
Se Jia Co.                          B-292      T      Exp       91     10      35   33  35      -      2         24            74.3        5185  5/85   -
. 



7-1  List of subprojeets 1inm ed vader Loeo 2144-R
lam loomlicatdm         "u 
Subproject               pro3ect  Isaa,  of       iotit  TOW    c        Vid  Atwo A- 1 can iat ;u'r:waT   of id %=     Cxr                iy                ofs
go.             pDjcc  assets  MpkboP        *loo  Cct                     odsn¢wium)px2"t sorc 
09 "Utiic)    ( GiliAM)
Tae Jin Enterprise Co.             B-293    MA       Zxp   1,071      53     48   48  48      -      -          37           77.1        1/85  1/85   -       Japan      lICB
Sam tHn Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   i-294  Prepaid
Ueung zuk Reamy Equip. Co.         8-295    "
Kin Hyang Sbik Surtary             3-296    S        Exp    137       14    429  429 410      -19   -           18            4.4        5/85  5/85   -       U.S.A      UC8
HaB  Sung sea"y Equip. Co.         B-297    S        Exp     32        2     24   24  24      -      -          20           83.3        4185  4/85   -       W/Gertany
Ran Young SFciery  Co.             B-298  Prepaid
Union Printin8 Co.                 B-299    P       Exp      63        7     72   54  72      -      20        38            80.6        6/85  6/85   -       Japan      ILCB
Dae Ran  Constr. H/C Co., Ltd.   B-300  Prepaid
Sharing Ind. Co.                   B-301    a
Rma  Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.        B-303
Korea Electronics Promtion Co.   B-304    MA    tLp    138            19    158  128 160      2      20        109           80.6        7/85  7/85           Japan      lLCB
Daeryuk Reany Equip. Co.           3-305  Prepaid
Hyup Jit neavy Equip. Co.          B-306
Dae II Sbinsun Co.                 B-307    n
Do tl lad. Co., Ltd.               B-308    n
Von Dan8 Printing Co.              B-309
Cbo 11 Co.                         B-310    n
Sung Color Co..                    B-311
Da ein sKetal Co.                  B-312    "
Kva Chun Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-313
Yuahin Color Co.                   B-315    "
Evan Ak Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-316
F-Bong Rae ReavyE4qVi);p-Co.F-Ltd.-B-317---S s----xp- - 238               12    114 -109-110- ---4                  65            59. -I'8-8/85* -r--V"fCBU
ta Sung Industry Co., Ltd.         B-318  Prepaid
Sam Beug Textile Co.               B-319    "
0~
-.. 1:



7-1  List of osbpopjett rissamcd e4r Leam 2144-SO
tuo.at lam m1icstia    law                                                 __i__e_t___-___  _ __i _f
Su4ro3oct                                                  I      Tot" Iroject  P      opt  al         e Aotl    mt tal  pin         Gut X c th             of
°V- pioct *eet                  ls         Mets   t (ba                        )
icUlimi)    oji uim)
Moa Color Co.                        B-320  Prepaid
bae Ryuk Heavy Equip Co., Ltd.       8-321
Jeong Color Co.                      B-322
Myungdong Contact Lease Co.          B-323    S       Exp      42      14      26   25  26     -      -          14           53.8        3/85  3/85   -       Korea     PC
Shin Jin Tire Co.                    5-324    Co      Exp    344       45    109  101 109      -      -         55            50.5        3/85  3/85   -       Korea     PC
Sam Yang Heavy Equip. Mach. Co.    B-325    S         Exp    308       18    346  331 360      14    _         290            80.6        7185  7185   -      WGaerpanY   LCB
Rwa Suang Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-326  Prepaid
Lees Color Co.                       B-327    s
Nev Moon Wha Color Co.               B-328    "
I1 tvang Ind. Co.                    B-329    .
Te Xun Heavy Equip. Mach. Co., Ltd. B-330    S        Exp    451       16      49   42  49     _                 42           85.7       10/85  9/85   -1      U.S.A.    ILCB
Rang's Color Co.                     B-331  Prepaid
EaniL. moolsan Co.                   B-332    "
Sang Pycong Trading Co.              B-333    T       New      58       8     49   42  49      -      -          34           69.4        8/85  8/85   -       Japan     ILC8
Doug Sang Color Co.                  B-334  Prepaid
Dong-A Printing Co.                  B-335    P       Exp    122        9      59   59  59      -     -          43           72.9        7/85  7/85   -       Japan      tLCB
Wha Jin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       1-337    5       Exp      22       5      54   51  54      -     -          43           79.6       10/85 10/85   -       W/Germany
Dong Rae Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.      B-338  Prepaid
Kva Chun Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.      B-339    S       Exp      20       5    132  128 125      -7    -          113           90.4       11/85 11/85   -       W/Germany tLCB
Sang Shin Book Bind Co.              8-341    P       Exp      77      15      76   76  76     -      -          47           61.8       11/85  9/85   -2      Japan     tLCB
Botet C - Construction                         *                                li on-metallic mineral products
P--Papery-Paper-products &-printing---                              T_ *_extilp  aearin apgal 6 leather
CH- Chemicals, petroleum, coal, rubber & plastic                    M7 Mining
ExP. Expansion                                                      ILCB- International Limitted Competitive Bidding
F - Food, beverage & tabacco                                        0 - Oth rs w         p
8   S Service                                                       W -ood 6 wood products ta
sA- Metal products, machinery & equipment                           PC- Ptropritary contract
Mgt- Balancing, nodermixation & replacement            -P"Portr   otatw-
,__,,, ,~~~.__.-.....-........ ---. . -                                                                                      i                                 *'



Use t  subpJfeets tisned  _e L1a 2215-31K0
Sub-            __e _   EJnt& 
Subprojeae                         I iftI   1 Of  Tl  Totalt TXk t    CrtFla  ft-.1    g¢t_ e                    I s. fre e cr>    _
0.#oig  odt,   p      -O     a                  (  ih
Sul Yoo Ind. Co.                 A-00l  Prepaid
Daelyung lad. Co.                i-002    "
Je tl Precision lad. Co.         B-001    u
too Rim Wire Cutting Co.         t-003    "A      new      36      -      92   7S   92      -     -          56            60.9      10/84 11/84  +1       Japan      mmC
Dea Yang Electronics Co.         5-006    lIA    txp.    82        24    92   73   90      -2    15          52            74.4       4/85  4/85  -         n
See Won Trans Itd. Co., Ltd.   t-005    IU        txp.   207       72    65   65   65      -       7         19           40.0       12/84 12/84  -         n
Km Precision Co.                 B-006  Prepaid
long Min Co.          B-007    ItA   UNw                   90      -    165  162  168        3    20         59            47.0       5/85  5/85  -        Japan  ltCB
Se Jon8 Electronics Co.          8-00  Prepaid
Won Jin Machinery Co.            D-O09    "
Kook Jo Sold & Dies Co.          B-010    "
Sn Jin Sang Sa                   B-011    "
Dae Yang Precision                B-012    "
Yet Eva Macbinery Co., Ltd.       -013    "
Bo Sung Munhwa Co.               8-014
Min Young Printing Co.           i-015    P       New     24       -     67   51   67      -      -         44            65.7        7/85  6/85  -1       W/Gerznn  ILCB
Seoul Pair Glass Co.             B-016  Prepaid
Ket  Precision Co.               B-017
Korea Pilot Electronics Co.    B-018    IA        Esp.  1,806      56   383  227  390       7    -          169           43.3       12/85 11/85  -1      t/Cermny  .LC3
le Seong Ind. Co.                B-0     P       REp.   168       50   154  154  160       6    -          134           83.8       10/85  9/85  -I 
Saibit Ind. Co.                  B-020  Prepaid
Rlyun4ae Printing Co.            B-021    P       Exp.   166        7    67   51  .67      -      -         46            68.7       10/85 10/85  -        Japan     IL=
Tae Kiillaavy g.ol.at      -.- >2-Prepei4-.-~....           ... - _* - _  ._5.
1eo San Ad. Prod. Co., Ltd.    B-024 PrpPaid
Veot Sung Ind. Co.               B-025   T        Exp.   122       15    59   42   55      -4    -          32            58.2        7/85  8/85  .1      Japan      UCB
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' E



7-2 List of *ubprojcte Financead rmer Loam 2215-3KO
Sub-        ~~NOtAte                                                         hoc    l ox total    Eatwazad DCtAal Diffewita Camtry   ba
SutaptojOct               PIrOjt   indketry of      Total  TorFt    x     '        I  GM        I                                               mo-n cost  WAMth   of  of
Subproject     NO.               I-~prJec t     ameta  )tee   mas   C-a    vgv              W  11milo)                                                   womeam
(W millama)    S millim)
Nam San Co.                         8-026   0        Exp.    242      13      129  83   132       3    -          58              43.9      11/85  10/85  -1    Sveden        iUC3
Jung Woo Construction               8-027    C       Erp.    526      19       87  41    85    -2    -            37              43.5      10185  10/85  -        /tCeruany    n
Chung Nam Heavy Equip. Co.          B-028   S        Ixp.     84      10       28  28    28    -       -          24              85.7      10/85  10/85  -       Japan
Tae Yang Textile Co.                B-029 Prepaid
Dong Bang Medical                  B-030   CH       Exp.  1,811       88      459 249   470       11   80        102              38.7      12/85   1186  +1    U.S.A.        ILCB
Jung Yea Sa Co.                     B-031   P       Exp.      40       5       42  24    42    -       10         21              73.8      11/85  11/85  -       Japan
Seo Kvang Inc.                     B-032 Prepaid
Nan Jin Die Casting Co.             B-033 Prepaid
Doe I1 Precision Co.                B-034   KA      New        4      29      603 553   590    -13   -           11?              19.8     10/85  11/85  +1    Japan          fLCB
Frankel Ind. Co.                   B-035 Prepaid
Juk Chon Ind. Co.                   B-036
Sung Soo Sa Co.                    B-037
Jung Moon Sa Co.                    B-038
Kwa Chun Heavy Equip. Co.          B-039   S        Exp.      20       9       48  43    48    -       _          41              85.4     12/85  12/85  -       V/Cermany  ILCB
Korea  K Span Co., Ltd.             B-040 Prepaid
Du Seong Optical                   s-041
Dai Tong Co.                       B-042   P        Exp.    183       25       37  26    37    -       10         20             81.1       4/86   4/86  -        U.S.A.      lLCB
5043                                                                                         ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Japan  IC
Korea Pilot Electronics             B-043   MA      Ex.  1,805        59   1,240 1,053 1,215  -25  175           326             41.2        3(86   4/86  +1                  ILCB
Korea Ho An Ind. Co.                B-044 Prepaid
Mva Seong Plastic Co.               8-045   p       Esp.    198       29      122 119   120    -2    -           101              84.2      2/86   2/86  -       V/Germany. ILCB
Kyung Shin  Chow. Ind. Co.          B-046 Prepaid
Hiva Sung Ind. Co.                  B-047    '
Sam Ick Electronics Ind. Co.    B-048   "                                                                                                                                  -
Narn Yang Ink Chem. Ind.            B-049   CH      £xp.    142       16      115  32   120      5    46          18              53.3       2/86   2/86  -       Japan       ILCB
Y. C-1 Tool Process Co.             B-050 Prepaid
0
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



7-2 List of oubprojects Fiaoleed o"4er Loan 2215-3K0
Sob-                     PtlamJ11e?pwam     LOW crofct cm                                                  -      A
Iof ttota    Estjea kuinl Diffwew  anst7     HtIU
&bt~~~~~~~roject prW",of                                    ct 'FW t Mal  amPiC ttowl ZOttitO ieo; °-.
Subproject                            ty  f        Total  Tota                                                                               M   n  s    oa  xo     onth   of  of
so.              PtoMect eM     ap1oWea       Massets  ast   Mw<r          LW sallim)            *                            inint .anu
NW acilica)   f Gillun)
Doug Bang Color Process Co.           B-051   Prepaid
Sin  Sung Ind. Co.                    B0O52
Kun Bang Photograph Studio            B-053     S       BMR      162      8      108  99   110      2    -           56             50.9      3/86   3/86   -       Japan       ILCB
Du Won Precision Co.                  B-054     MA      Exp.    164       6       81  78    81    -       -          68             84.0      1/86   1/86   -       Japaa
Hanil noolsan Co.                     B-056     T       Exp.    154      14       49  46    49    -       -          39             79.6      4/86   4/86   -
Rwa Seong Plastic Co.                 3-057     Ca      Exp.    198      30      216 183   220      4    -          162             73.6      5/86   4/86   -I        n
Sei Chang Freezing Ind. Co.           B-058  Prepaid
Kyong Jin Textile Co.                 B-059  Prepaid
Sung Bo Heavy Equip. Co.              B-060  Prepaid
Sung Woo Ind. Co.                     B-061     P       Exp.  1,369      50       52  52    50    -2    -           44              88.0      4/86   4/86   -       Japan       ILCB
Kyung Sung Precision Co.              B-062  Prepaid
Tao Young Moonwba Printing Co.        B-063     P       Exp.      31      7       78  43    78    -       30         35             83.3      4/86   4/86   -       Japan       IL    U
Young Jin  Neavy Equip. Co.           B-064    S        Exp.    204       8       79  79    88      9    15          68             94.3      4/86   4186   -       W/Germany   n
Shin  Sung Wire Cutting Co.           B-065  Prepaid
Shin  Sung Embroidery Co.             B-067    T        Exp.    136      17       67  61    67    _                  52             77.6      4/86   4/86   -      W/Germany  ILCB
Kwa Chun Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-068  Prepaid
Shin lyun Constr. Co., Ltd.           B-069     C       Exp.    248      10      451 392   448    -3    140         277             93.1      6/86   7/86   41    Japan         ILCB
Ando Enterprise Co., Ltd.             B-071     C       New      35       3      154 146   154    -       18        113             85.1      8/86   7/86   -1    U.S.A.         n
Sam 3oo Production Co., Ltd.          0-072    0        Exp.  1,424    66        398 331   400      2    100        207             76.8      7/86   7/86   -       U.S.A.       n
Ran Young Co.                         B-073    T        New      102     5        60  56    60    -       4          44             80.0      4/86   4/86   -       Japan
Kyong Jin Textile Co.                 B-074  Prepaid
Dae Ryuk Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-075
SeoJim. Embroidery.Co._        __ B -..B-Q..-                                                                                                          - S 
Woo 11 Ind. Co.                       3-077
Shin Jung Nylon Co.                   B-078   *"
*                                                                                                                                    ub f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
ma
l~~~~~~~-



7-2 List of subprojeets Finaed urder Loan  2215-3X0
Sub-                     at tom oa  loanm licaiv t awi_    t                 *       
Mxhtff ~ ~     ~      ...cran~..,......aofcca        acumcd *ctuek Diffeance CAaarY
Subproject               pvoject 'decry of        Total  ToUtl    TotlFxd ACt         t  Lhsl a          toj              tt    of                            of
.pojecrt  as sapl  a        aseets cost   oacn          (VW ilicn)                                       ptit p     '
ts cAllicn)   tuw*dlioa)' 
Dong I1 Embroidery Co.               8-080 Prepaid
Surabul Record Co.                   B-081    MA      Exp.    389      70     117  90   120       3    30         59             74.2     5/86   6/86   +1    U.K. Swis  ILCB
San Jin Corp.                        B-082    C       zxp.     90       8     100  96   100    -       30         64             94.0     7/86   7/86   -       Sweden       n
misung Plastic Co.                   B-083 Prepaid
Kong Gac Clove Co.                   B-084   "Japan
No Chun Ind. Co.                     B-086   CH       Exp.    683      69     353 264   350    -3    60          188             70.9    10/86  11/86   +1    U.S.A.        ILCB
Shin Ran Printing Co.                B-087   p       Exp.      76       8      71  38    75      4    40          31             94.7     9/86   9/86   -       Japan
Kum Soo Precision Co.                B-088 Prepaid
Cho Kvang Glass Co.                  B-089   "
A-Sung Corp.                         B-090   S        Exp.     50       8      37  34    37    -       -          29             78.4     7/86   7/86   -       U.K.       lLCB
Ah Sun  Heavy Machb. Co., Ltd.       8-091   S        Exp.     50       8      64  61    64    -       10         44             84.4     8/86   8/86   -       Italy
Hyundai Special Rubber lnd. Co.    B-092 Prepaid
Shin ll Class Co.                    s-093   N        ew       80     40      169 169   170      1    30         80              64.7    11/86  12/86   +1    Italy        ILCB  %
heung 11 lnd. Co., Ltd.              B-094   MA      Exp.  1,475       98     345 285   340    -5    40          231             79.7     9/RS   8/86   -1    Japan
Star World Co.                       3-096 Prepaid
RVa Sung Co.                         B-097   T       BMm      183       7      74  64    74    -       10        52              83.8     8/86   8/86   -       Japan      lLCB
Saesam Ind. Co.                      B-098   T       New       45       -     165 148   165    -       -        118              71.5     9186   9/86   -      W/Germany   U
Hyundai Integrated.                  B-099   P       Exp.      70      26     138  66   140      2    45         49              67.1     9/86   8/86   -1  Japan,U.S.A.
Samjeon lad.                         B-100 Prepaid
HaB  Sung Equip.                     B-101   S       Lxp.      49      4       88  86    85    -3    -           73             85.9      9/86   9/86   -      W/Germany   ICB  -
Dae Hyung lnd.                       B-102 Prepaid
Dae Joo Fine Chem. Co.               B-103   "
Kyung In Ceremics Co.                B-104   N,    ELp.    218        42      iO   78   100    ;1    20          65             85.0--- l086 17o-s6pa6IlC3r 
Jumbo Enterprise                     s-107 PTepaid
Chun Kong Electronics Co.            B-108   Ka      Nev       66      1      119 112   120      1    35         3i             60.0      9/86   9/86   -      U.K.        ILCI



7-2 List ot eubprojecta Financed under Loan 2215-3K0
-                                                    e' at Cam aunli n            Q| f-atml o  slTO-,-                                                   - !
Subst-        t       Tta   Ttl * ta tum   *tw   coat  ictcaigume AI.   M=                                                     G.0
prOject                                                                                                                    mont1h    cVi        ciLca   umuo ttiih  a-   w
Subproject                           Icnu)ry of       TOW    Total                                                                                     mouth    of          of
NO.           p          riae-                     aec tcs wlt   oe frffiti pwrmAnt  pnxrmu_''
Kyung Sung Precision Co.  B-109  Prepaid
Shin Saeng Precision Co.  B-110
Oh Sung Boring Co.            B-ll      S       Exp.    213        22      71   65   75         4     -          48               64.0      2187   2J87   -         ItaLy       ILCB   :
Tae Kvang Electronic Co.  B-112  Prepaid
Cheong 'Woo Ind.              B-113    P         Up.    484        38      96   63   95        -1     -          50               52.6      1/87   1/87   _        Japan        ILCB
Note:   C  Construction                                                                  N- Non-metallic mineral products
P- Paper, Paper products 6 printing                                             T- Textile, wearing apparel & leatber
CH, Chemicals, petroleum, coal, rubber & Plastic                                ILCB  International Limitted Competitive Bidding
Exp  Expansion                                                                  0- Others
F- Food, beverage & tabacco                                                     W- Wood & wood products
S" Service                                                                      TR ' Transportation
MA- Metal Products, machinery 6 equipment
8MR -Balancing, modernization & roplacement
__  ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--        ;                                                       _ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
I  _ __ _ _ .. ,_, .... , _ , ,, ,_ __ _ _ _, , . _ _ . _ _ _ . . . _ . . _ _ .. . . , X y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan 2144-SO
Sub-                  Total Sales                      Profits                                    Profits as   of
SubprojectuProjectb Estimate                                                        Net worth                     total *ssettsa t
Subproject                   Project      Estimate           Actual       Estimate         Actual          Estimate       Actual         Estimate       Actual   
No.         Ist yr.  2nd yr. 1st yr. 2cd yr. Ist yr. 2cd yr.  Ist yr. 2cd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2cd yr.  Ict yr. nd yr. 1st yr. 2vd yr. .j
SamYang Heavy Machinery                A-001       Repaid                                                                                                                       i
Han Jin Heavy Equipment Co.            A-002       Prepaid
Choong Book Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  A-003             to
Sam Rweang Constr. Machinery Co.       A-004          t
Huas Reav" Equipment Co., Ltd.         A-005          320     402    310    420    24        30      22       32    31.9   28.9   30.8   29.3  6.0    7.6    5.8    7.8
Sam Nam D,velopment Co.                A-006       Prepaid
Han Chang Industrial Co.               A-007          h -
Shin Sung Industrial Co.               A-008
Han Heavy Equipment Co., Ltd.          A-009
Dae Jong Heavy Equipment.              A-010          197      296    200    300    26        67     26       67    40.9   48.0   40.9   48.1  9.8   13.5    9.9   13.6   -
Dae Jin Textile Co., Ltd.              A-Ol        Prepaid
Hwa Jin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.         A-012
Sung to Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.         A-013
Dae Heavy Hach. Co., Ltd.              A-014
Jung Suck Constr. Co., Ltd.            A-015        2,400   2,400  2,300  2,400    87    102          85     105    18.7   18.0   17.9   18.1  6.6    *.7    6.5    7.9
Sam Lip Printing Co.                   A-016        Prepaid
Shin Kwang RD Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.B-OO1           Repaid
.Jeon Kam Heavy Equipment              B-002        Prepaid
Rea Chul Clinic                        B-003
j   uam Heavy Equipnent                B-004          129      274    125    265    21        70      20       65    51.3   65.2   49.8   64.3 12.0   21.7   11.8   20.8    :j
Moon Hwa Color Co.                      B-005       Prepaid                          _                                         -_-
Sung Ho Medicines Co.                  B-006          to
Song In Textile Co.                    B-010
Sunchunbyang Clinic                    B-011          313      358    310    360    26        27      26       27    13.7   12.4   13.8   12.5  9.6    9.3    9.6    9.3  a-
Sin An Sajin Jepan Co.                 B-012        Prepaid _              _                                                                                                        I
_-.



8-1  Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan 2144-K0
-  -  - -   ~Total Sales                 Profits                            ---Profits as S of---
Sub-                                                                               Net worth                     total assets
Subproject                   Project      Estimate          Actual        Estimate         Actual          Estimate       Actual        Estimate        Actual
No.        Ist yr.  2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  Ist yr. 2yr. r.  1yr.   2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  ot yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.
Sam Jin Co.                          B-013        96        240      90    230    28       44     25       40    43.1   53.8   42.5   51.2  19.5   26.7   17.9   25.2
mi Do Co.                            B-014       150        375    150    370    35        52     30       48    49.7   57.3   48.6   55.2  22.5   28.1   21.0   26.8
Mae Seo Co.                          B-015       168        251    170    250    27        29      27      29    36.4   34.5   36.4   34.5  18.1   18.3   18.1   18.1
Jae I1 Co.                           B-016        96        240      90    235    28       46     25       44    43.0   54.9   42.8   53.2  20.5   27.6   19.3   25.4
Kwan Dong Co.                        B-017        7S        314      75    305      4      19       4       16     8.2   26.4    8.2   25.3   3.5   13.1    3.5   12.6
Dae Yang Co.                         B-018        75        314      75    320      4      19       4       18     8.1   27.6    8.1   26.3   3.2   12.9    3.1   12.7
Nu bong Co.                          8-019       146        276    140    270       8      14       8       14    11.9   19.0   11.9   19.0   6.1    9.7    6.           9.5
NWv  Sung Co.                        B-020        42        251      40    240      5      27       4       25     9.9   39.9    9.3   39.1   4.5   19.8    4.2   19.1
RVa Weon Co.                         B-021       323        328    290    310    16        15      11       13    18.7   16.9   17.1   15.4  12.1    9.1   11.2    8.6
Dae 11 Constr. Co.                   B-022       Prepaid
Su Sung Heavy Machinery Co.          B-023
Shin %aung Heavy Equip. Co.          S-024       168        409    170    410    28        49      28  S- 50    36.6   39.5   36.7   39.8   8.7   13.9    8.8   14.0
Man Ro Co.                           B-025        45         181     40    170    0.4    16        -5       15      1.3   31.9   -0.9   31.7   0.4   13.0   -0-3   12.9
Mi Seong Co.                          B-026      Prepaid
Byun Shean Co.                       B-027
Dae Veon Co.                         B-028.       118        314    110    300       1     21       3       20      4.6   63.3    5.2   63.0   1.8   19.7    3.2   19.5
Se Kun Heavy Equip. Mach. Co.        B-029         72        154     72    154       7     42       7       42    25.4   59.7   25.4   59.7   2.9   16.3    2.9   16.3
Dang Sa Co.                          B-030        187        304    170    290    16        22     14       20    24.6   22.6   23.1   20.2  14.5   12.1   13.0   11.5
Eun Ha Co.                           B-031         35        142     35    130       5      14      5       12    13.8   32.6   13.9   31.2   4.8   11.7    4.9   10.6
Samil Constr. Machinery Co.          B-033        144        219     90    180    20        32     -10      -      37.2   40.3  -30-1   -6.1  10.0   12.3   -7-0   -3.2
Usk Ga Co.                            B-034        76        205      80    200    10       33     10       33    29.2   65.9   29.3   65.8   9.9   28.2    9.8   28.4
Shin Tae Yang Constr. Co., Ltd.   B-035           888        976    890    980    16        33     16       33    21.3   30.0   21.3   30.0   2.0    3.5    2.0    3.6
Ub Seong Co.                         B-036         61        155      60    150      6      18       5      16    20.3   45.8   19.1   44.2   6.9   18.4    6.3   17.8 I
Uoo Shin Industry Co., Ltd.           B-037       153        459    150    470       2      31       3      32      2.6   32.0    2.7   32.5   0.8    8.0    0.9    8.3
torea X-Rays Clinic                   8-038       Prepaid                                                                                                                    0



8-1 Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan 2144-K0
Sub-                  Total Sales                       Profits                                    Profits as 2 of
Sub-roject  Project                                                                  Net  'orth                    total assets
Subproject                   Project       Estimate           Actual       Estimate          Actual          Estimate        Actual        Estimate        Actual
No.         lst yr.  2ndyr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2ndyr.  Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  Istyr. nd yr.  Ist yr. 2nd yr.  Ist yr.  2nd yr.
Weon Co.                          B-039        60        239      60    240       2      16       3       16      8.2   41.0    8.3   41.1    1.6   12.3    1.8   12.5
Dong Ab Co.                       B-040       Prepaid
Jeong Seok Heavy Equipment    B-041              t
Soo Do Heavy Equipment            B-042       871        916    870    920    34         54      33       55    59.9   54.4   58.2   54.5  11.2    9.9   10.2   10.0
Weonpori Co.                      s B-043      64        255      60    260       4      26       4       26    13.4   46.5   13.4   46.6   2.5   13.9    2.5   14.0
Dae Seong Co.                     B-044       137        379    150    390    17         38      18       40    36.5   67.9   36.5   68.1  14.0   27.9   14.2   28.1
Dae Lim Co.                       B-045        24         142     20    110       2      15    -10       -5      10.4   53.6   -9.4   -5.4    2.3   14.7   -1.9   -3.7
Dong Shin Co.                     B-046        35         142     40    160       5      13       5       15    12.6   27.8   12.6   28.1   4.8   10.8    5.0   11.9
Tae Chang Co.                     B-047        76        205      75    200       8      31       8       30    26.2   66.6   25.9   65.8   9.6   30.3    9.3   29.9
Hae Sung Co.                      B-049        99         195     95    190    16        23      15       20    38.1   42.2   37.6   41.8  21.2   19.2   19.6   18.5
Dong Yang Co.                     B-050       Prepaid
Dad* Co.                          B-051       190        272    180    260    13         25      11       22    27.2   33.5   26.1   32.3  11.0   17.4   10.2   16.6
Pyung Suck Co.                    B-052       108        255    100    250    14         20      14       20    38.4   42.4   37.8   41.3  13.2   16.4   12.8   15.6
Dong Mi Co.                       B-053       108        255    110    270    14         20      14       22    22.0   26.7   22.0   27.0  10.5   13.3   10.5   13.8
Kei Seong Co.                     B-054        35        207      35    212    0.7    24          1       25      2.6   49.7    2.8   50.0   0.5   15.6    0.8   16.0
Ban Ryo Foods Co.                 B-055       Prepaid
Dae-A Lead Wire Co., Ltd.         B-056       3,665   5,411  3,700  5,500    42    107           45      110    11.6   25.3   11.9   25.8   3.6    6.2    4.0    6.8
Young Kwang Co.                   B-057          172      244    170    240    16        19      16       19    20.6   22.7   20.5   22.5  11.2   12.5   11.0   12.3
Dae Chang Co.                     B-059        76         193     60    160       9      23      -8       -5     26.4   44.1  -20.3  -13.6   14.8   21.5   -9.5   -7.3
Ho Nah Auto Ind., Co.             B-060       377        442    380    450    26         39      26       40    34.4   36.2   34.5   36.8   8.0   13.5    8.1   14.0
_  _~ _ II            _  __u_   ,-061                Prepaid
Sam Jin Industrial Co.            B-062
Sam Jin Co.                       B-063        25         163     25    160       1      16       2       15      4.1   20.0    4.2   19.8   1.3   15.2    1.5   15.0
Song Gong Co.                     B-064        61         155     60    150       7      18       7       18    26.1   48.8   26.0   48.5   8.3   18.8    8.2   18.7   |
Nam Yang Co.                      S-065       Prepaid                                                                                                                        t
.... . ... ..... ._ . . . ,_ ...... ..... . . _ . - t-~0



8-1 Characteristics of subprojects financed under Loan 2144-KO
Sub-  Total Sales                Profits                                     Profits as K of
Sub-                                                                                 Net worth                     total assets
Subproject                   Project       Estimate           Actual       Estimate          Actual         Estimate        Actual         Estimate        Actual
Ist yr.  2nd yr. lst yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  Itt yr. 2nd yr.  lst yr. 2nd yr.
Sam Hae Foods Co., Ltd.               B-066      985      2,520  1,000  2,700    17         41      20 .    45    13.8   25.0   14.6   25.8   3.0    4.9    3.5    5.3
Dal Sung Co.                          B-067      351         768    290    650    20        36     -10       -5    16.1   22.1   -8.3   -5.4   9.2   10.3   -4.2   -2.9
Uri Color Co.                         B-068        23        146      25    150      2       7       5       10      2.4    A.9    3.2    9.1   1.8    5.5    2.3    5.9
Kyung No Embroidery Co.               B-069        71         82      70     91    11        8      11       12    20.5   13.4   20.5   15.3  15.0    8.4   15.0   10.6
Do Kwang Construction Co., Ltd.   B-070    1,227           1,927  1,260  2,020    13        58      15       60    53.7   77.0   54.8   77.2   4.8   12.7    5.0   13.0
Ran Kook Sang Gong Ss                 B-071    1,326       2,026  1,400  2,100    13        36      15       40    19.6   28.8   20.1   29.6   5.0    8.1    5.3    8.6
Dae Ran Road Line Paint Co., Ltd. 8-072    1,326           2,026  1,350  2,000    19        52      19       52    22.8   43.1   22.8   43.1   7.0   11.6    7.2   11.9
Seong Jang Co.                        B-073       37         313     35    305       2      16       2       15      3.2   24.1    3.2   23.8   1.4   11.7    1.4   11.3
Ka Ma Co.                             8-074   Prepaid
Shin An Co.                           B-075        35        223      25    200    0.7       7      -5       -2      1.8   19.6   -1.5   -0.8   0.7    6.6   -0.4   -0.2
Ran Kook Geological Co., Ltd.         B-076        50        166      50    180    10       17      10       18    29.5   39.2   29.5   39.3  25.5   17.9   25.5   18.1
Xyung Jin Co.                         B-077       106        288    100    280    10        40      10       35    21.0   57.6   21.0   55.2   5.4   18.8    5.4   17.4
Man Poong Co.                         B-078        76        193      76    190      9      2.       9       20    32.1   50.1   32.0   49.0  16.1   22.5   15.9   21.3
Dae Cheon Co.                         B-079   Prepaid
Chun In Co.                           B-080       130        500    130    480       6      16       6       12    15.0   30.8   15.0   28.3   7.7   11.7    7.5   10.2
Jeon Nam Co.                          B-081    Prepaid
Chil Sung Co.                         B-082        78        256      80    250      5      13       5       13    10.8   18.0   10.8   18.0   6.7    9.4    6.7    9.4
Ik Gum Co.                            B-083        57        193      55    185    10       29      10       28    27.5   58.2   27.5   57.3   9.7   24.9    9.5   23.8
Sam Yang Construction Co.             B-084       296        412    300    430       7       9       8       10      5.7    6.5    5.9    6.7   3.4    3.9    3.6    4.3
Chung Ju Chem. Ind. Co.               B-085       229.       357    240    380    10        11      10       12    14.3   12.9   14.3   13.6   6.1    5.6    6.1    6.0
Sang Shin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd. B-087           .38.        176    -4'--  .190 ---.5.      18-      5     ---20 -- 10.2   32.9-- -10.2 - 33.4  -8.4-- 13-.78--T8.1      T4.U
Kum Chi Nong Co.                      B-088        38        192      40    190      4      21       4       20    10.6   38.2   10.6   37.3   3.7   17.4    3.5   16.3
Shin  Kwang Co.                      .8-089       118        314      90    295    0.5    16        -6       14      1.0   28.0   -0.8   26.4   0.6   11.1   -0.3   io.8
Tae Won Co.                           B-090   Prepaid
Rae Won Co.                           B-091       * I                                                                                                                          a



8-1 Characteristics of sub,roiects financed under Loan 2144-RO
Suab-                Total Sales                     Profits                                  Profits as S of
net wortb                    total assets
Subproject                  Project     Estimate          Actual       Estimate         Actual         Estimate       Actual        Zstimate       Actual
NO.        Ist yr.  2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. 1st yr. 2ndyr.   st yr. 2ad yr.  st yr. 2cd yr. 1st yr. ad yr.  st yr. 2ed yr. 1st yr. 2nd yr.
Va xi Co.                         B-092   Prepaid
Sung Suk food Co.           ,      -093       55        314     60    320      2      21      3       21     4.8   40.2    5.0   40.6   1.3   15.6    1.5   15.9
bae Kok Co.                       B-094   Prepaid
Sam Sao Co.                       8-095       38        192     40    190      4      22      4       22     9.3   45.5    9.2   45.5   5.2   17.8    5.1   17.8
San Vang Foods Co.                B-097   Prepaid
Shin  Seong Steal Co., Ltd.       B-098
Gwang 11 CO.                      s-099      154        307    160    310    31       47     30       47    75.4   55.6   74.6   55.7  37.0   27.7   36.2   27.9
Ewasung Ind. Co.                  5-100   Prepaid
man Ho Co.                        B-101       1S        223     16    220      2      15      2       15    12.2   42.0   12.0   41.8   3.3   16.7    3.0   15.9
Won I1 Machinery Ind. Co.         B-102   Prepaid
Youns Doug Color Devel. Co.       3-103      .9
Daevoo Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-104        n
Dae Yang Co.                      B-105
Dae Deok Hospital                 B-106      .
Hi Rwang Color Devel. Co.         B-109      n
One Color Devel. Co.              B-111      .
90ng San$ Medical Business Co.  B-112        .
Hyundai Civil tag. 6 Const. Co. 5-113        293        304    300    310    22       29     22       30    22.9   24.7   23.0   25.0  15.9   16.9   16.0   l7.O
Bwe Sung Trading Co.              B-114   Prepaid
Shin Bva Construction Co.         B-115      Of
CbcoarShn rXhfvvy-.1-14. ----Bi~                        iO---35         50-   5   ,TIO-      5       T-   03.6 51 .                                      10.0 13.5
Soo Do Heavy Equip.               B-117   Ptepeid
Jeong Seok Eeavy equip. Co.       B-118      n9
Do"g Sung Heavy Equip.            3-119      173        181    170    180    17       21     17       21    16.6   19.2   16.5   19.3   8.7   11.1    8.S   11.3
Shin Wood Ind. Co.                B-120   Prepsid                        -         -



8-1  Characteristics of suborojects financed under Loan 2144-KO
Sub-                Total Sales                    Profits                                 Profits *s 2 of
Net worth                   total assets
Subproject                 Project     tstimate          Actual      Estimate-       Actual         Esti-ate      Actual        -stiate      -Actual
o.         Ist yr.  2ad yr. lat yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2md yr.  Ist yr.  r. }yr.  r. 2yr. r 2yr. Ist yr. .dyr.  ayr. 2  yr. It yr. 2ad yr.
Duck Sung Heavy Equip.              B-123       85       159     85    150      9     25      9      23    14.3   33.8   14.5   33.1   3.6   10.1    3.9    9.3
Chong Hvap Heavy Equip. Co.         B-124       54        93     55    100      9     18     10       19    19.1   31.0   20.0   31.5   6.9   13.2    7.0   13.5
Dae Lie Chemical lId. Co.           B-125    1,041    1,582  1,055  1,600    50       67     50       70    32.6   36.0   32.7   37.1  15.7   16.2   15.9   17.1   1
Young Jin Heavy Equip.              8-127    Prepaid
Woo Civil Engineering Co., Ltd.    B-128
Du Sung Heavy Machinery Co., Ltd.  B-129       n_
Je 11 Boring Co.                    B-130      n                                                                                                                    s-
Park Seung-No X-Ray Clinic          3-131      n
Hyup Wang Pringtzng Co.             B-132      131       151    130    1SO    15      16     15       16    33.3   24.1   33.3   24.1  11.4   i8.3   11.4    8.3
San Ho Heavy Machinery              B-133      882       882    850    900    49      53     45      55    27.5   29.3   25.3   30.1   8.4   10.2    7.6   10.8
Dae Sung Co.                        B-134    Prepaid
HyUn Hee Embroidery                 B-135      147       169    150    170    12      14     12       14    14.0   14.5   14.0   14.5   6.6    7.2    6.6    7.2
Silra Embroidery Co.                8-136      168       208    160    200    13      25     12      23      9.6   15.8    9.3   15.2   6.3    9.9    6.0    9.5
Hrundai D.P.                        B-138    Prepaid
Youngwon Industrial Co.             B-139      n 
?a %us Heavy Equip. Hach.           B-140      296       398    290    400    40      63     38       65    31.8   42.3   31.6   42.5   7.9   13.6    7.6   13.8
Sam I1 Conatr. Hach.                B-142     252        317    230    320    53      68     50      65    50.2   43.0   48.1   42.1  17.5   13.3   16.4   12.3  .
Seong Won Ind. Co.                  B-143    Prepaid
Baik Hwa Special Clove MFG.         8-144      n'
Hwa Sung Co.                        B-145      n,
- Sh 'in  w-unge-Packing-Paper      B-43     - n_
Sehan  Printing Co.                 B-148     n
Baikhap Fiber Ind. Co.              B-149       13        43     15     50      2      9      3       10     4.2   20.4    5.1   21.6   3.1   12.7    3.8   13.2 w
atm Hi Industry Co.                 B-150    Prepaid                                                                                                               a,
Hyo Chang lad. co.                  B-151     n;O
~_         _       _ _                                                                                               -..........-..  _---_ ._ _ _._. _  _-   _.    ...........       . __   _....  _  .__.._  ....___     
.  .  ,                               '                        *                                                       X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



8-1   Characteristics of subnroiects financed under Loan 2144-KO
Sub.                 Total Sales                     Profits                                   Profits as I of
Sub.  Net worth              total assets
Subproject                  Project      Estimate          Actual       Estimate         Actual         Estimate        Actual        Estimate       Actual
No.       ast yr.  2nd yr. 1st yr. 2nd yr. lst yr. 2nd yr.  Ist yr. 2rd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. lat yr. 2nd yr. lst yr. bid yr. lat yr. 2nd yr.
Han Cook Decal Co., Ltd.           B-152      521        816    520    820    16       28      16      28    22.8   23.3   22.8   23.3   5.8    7.8    5.8    7.8
Hyup Wang Printing Co.             8-153      219        253    220    250    19       28      20      30    28.2   37.3   29.1   37.5  11.5   11.1   11.8   11.9
Pyttag Hva Ind. Co.                B-154    Prepaid
Dokil Red Co.                      B-155      773      1,408    770  1,400    24       38      24      40    61.3   54.3   61.3   55.0  18.8   13.5   19.0   13.8
Sam Sung Printing Co.         _   B-156       101        143    100    150       7     11       7      12      9.3   13.2    9.3   14.0   6.5    7.3    6.5    7.6
Dong Nam Meat Process Co., Ltd. B-157    Prepaid
Bong Hvang Enterprise              B-159      328        364    290    360    13       15    -12        15     9.4   11.0   -8.2   11.0   6.4    7.5   -5.8    7.5
Tong ll Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-160    Prepaid
Hyup Sung Enterprise               8-161      200        240    220    260    34       37      35       40    31.1   25.4   32.1   26.8  16.6   16.7   17.0   17.1
Asia Ind. Co.                      B-162      481        736    450    740       6      17      5       19     8.0   18.2    7.1   19.3   4.7    9.0    4.3    9.6
Han Kook Tannin Co., Ltd.          B-164     Prepaid
Young Suk Co.                      1-165       "
Chun Ho Co.                        t-166        69       100      70     90      3       3      3        3     1.9    2.2    1.9    2.2   1.5    1.7    1.5    1.7
Shin  Sung Ind. Co.                B-167       129       173    130    175    18        24     18       24    33.7   31.3   33.7   31.3  12.7   15.5   12.7   15.5
Bubeung Ind. Co.                   t-168        23         74     25      75     4      16      4       15    27.9   57.9   28.0   57.5   8.4   28.1    8.5   28.0
Kum Chang Fiber Co.                1-169      Ptepaid
Kyug  Heung Ind. Co.               B-170       n
Jeomt Buk Heavy Equip.             3-171       224       461    220    460    23        34     23       35    31.7   41.8   31.5   42.0  10.5   14.2   10.5   14.6
Tae Bak Co.                        B-172      Prepaid
Yountg Hiam Trading Co.            B-173       "
HBYn Dae Embroidery Co.            B-176
Woo I1 Ind. Co.                    1-178       n                                                                                                                     .
Sam Hong Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd. B-179
- - WSnoo lId. Co.                 B-180 "                                                                                                   -
_  _ .  _ . .. . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



8-1 Cbaracteristics of subiroiects financed under Loan 2144.-0
Sub.                 Total Sales                      Profits                                    Profits as 2 of
m-et vorth                   total assets*
Subproject                   Project      Estimate          Actual        Estimate         Actu-l         Estimate        Actual        Estimate        Actual
No.         lstyr.  2nd yr. Ist yr. 2td yr. lst yr. 2rd yr.  ls yr. 2nd yr.  st yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2ndyr.  Ist yr. 2rd yr. Ist yr. 2rnlyr.
?ujics Color Co.                       B-181     Prepaid
Doug Shin Sobanggi Co.                 B-182       53        159      55    160       4    13        5       13    21.1   47.6   21.9   47.6   5.6   14.8    6.0   14.8
88 Color Devel. Co.                    B-183       23        166      25    180      5      28       5       30    23.3   16.9   23.3   17.5  16.9   61.3   17.0   62.1
Bong Rae Reavy )tebinery Co.          B-184       187        209    180    200    37        37      35       35    31.1   27.1   30.1   26.3  16.1   15.3   15.4   14.2
Dong I1 Silk Co.                       B-187       106       188    100    200        8     14       8       15    26.3   40.7   26.3   41.9  10.6   17.5   10.5   18.6
Doug Bang Printing Co.                 B-188      314        539    310    540    16        24      16       24    57.6   56.4   57.6   56.4  19.1   20.4   19.1   20.5
Tong II Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.        8-189      Prepaid
Gang Gyoung Hab Sa                    B-191        n
youn Do Food Ind. Co.                  8-192       184     1,184    180  1,200    19        83      20       85     9.6   36.1    9.8   36.5   3.5   13.4    3.9   13.6
Ga RanS Foods Co.                      B-194     Prepaid
Bo-lang Rug. Co.                      B-195
Ban Do Co.                            B-196       n
Woo Jin Construction & Eng.            B-198       n
Sam Ban Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.         B-199       210        225    210    240    41       49      40       50    69.9   45.3   70.0   45.5  15.0   17.3   15.0   17.5
Dea Jin Blinder Co.                    B-200       343        460    340    460    18        26     20       30    27.8   35.2   28.0   35.6  14.0   17.2   14.3   17.6
Xuk Jo General Printing Co.            3-201      Prepaid
Bva Sung Ind. Co.                      3-202
Dat Whs Fournation xad. Co.            B-203        36        436      35    420      8      49      8       46      7.6   37.0    7.6   36.5   2.3   12.3    2.5  *12.0   _
Ye 11 Co.                              B-204        24        157      25    170      3      15      4       18    12.5   41.7   13.0   42.0   3.7   16.2    4.0   16.4
Ryung Lis Ind. Co.                     B-205      Prepaid                                                                                                                       -
Ba.Do--OilIs.Co.-,Ltd -     -         8-206-- n                                                   -- 
Yu Bwa Sizing Ind. Co.                 B-207
Kuk Sung Recomposition Print Co.    B-208           n
Yu Sin Ind. Co.                        3-209        n
Spun Dai Printing  Co.                 8-210        "e
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^



8-1 Cbaracteristics of subnroiects financed under Loan 2144-K0
Total Sales                      Profits                                    Profits as    t of
Sub-                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Net worth       total asse-ts
Subproject                   Project      Estimate           Actual       Estimate         Actual          Estimate       Actual         Estimat-       Actual
No.         Ist yr.  2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. let yr. 2nd yr.  Ist yr. 2rAd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. 1st yr. 2nd yr.  nt yr. 2ndyr.  Ist yr. 2d yr.
Oh Jae Dong Surgical Clinic        B-211      Prepaid
Young Wha Printing Co.             B-212       494        807    490    820    21        28      20      30    40.5   32.9   39.8   33.0  13.2   13.1   12.8   13.5   -
lVA  Poong Fiber Co.                5-213       31         49      35      50     5       7       5        8    29.1   30.9   29.0   31.0  14.9   15.6   15.0   15.8
Jin Sung Packaging Co.             B-214      Prepaid
Pal Gi Co., Ltd.                   B-215       h
Chang Sung Fiber Co.               B-216
baeseong Co.                       B-217
Dong Yang Gloves Co.               B-219        56         94      55      90      7     13       7       13     9.0   14.5    9.0   14.5   6.3    9.5    6.2    9.3
Ran Kook Livestock Process Co.  B-220         Prepaid
Heung I1 Printing Co.              B-221        58        117      60    120       3     13       5       14     4.4   11.4    4.6   11.5   2.8   10.6    3.0   11.0  e*
Seo Gab Won X-Ray Clinic           B-223      Prepaid
Kosung Printing Co., Ltd.          B-224
Young Nam Co.                      B-225
bug Sin Metal Co., Ltd.            B-227        n
Mo Bo Wire Ind. Co., Ltd.           B-228
Sae Won Plastic Co.                B-229        .
Nam Sun Boring Ind., Co.           3-230        189        258    170    260       5      10      5       10      4.3    7.9    4.3    8.0   3.3    6.0    3.3    6.0  _
Sam It Ind. Co., Ltd.              B-231       Prepaid
Woo Shin Ind. Co., Ltd.            B-232        740        878    740    880    51        55     50       55    34.3   22.5   34.3   22.5   7.4    6.9    7.5    7.0
Yu Wha Sizing Ind. Co.             B-233       Prepaid
- saul a-.                    B-234-         -     n-                                                     r_ 
Young tunwha Co.                   B-235         39        155     40    170       3      10      4       13      5.4   17.6    5.5   18.0   2.7    8.8    3.0    9.1  -
Seung Ran Knitting Co.              B-236      Prepaid
Dae Kvang Susan Co.                B-237        "
I1  Young Corp.                    B-238z



8-1  Chatacteristics of suboroiects financed under Loan  2144-RO
Sub-                 Total Sa-les                    Profits                                  Ptofits as 2 of
Net worth                   total assets
Subproject                 Project      Estimate          Actual       Estitiate        Actual         Estimate       Actual        Estimate       Actual
So.         Ist yr.  2Ad yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. 1st yr. 2ld yr.  lst yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. let yr. 2ad yr.  st yr. 2n yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.
Han Heoung Printing               B-239     Prepaid
Shia Sung ld. Co.                B-240      132        202    140    210    25       37     25       37    35.7   34.8   35.7   35.0  11.8   16.0   12.0   16.0
Sea Han Food Co.                  B-241     Prepaid
Sam Ryup Tape Co.                 8-242
Duck Woo Chemical Co.         -  B-243        n
Nam Young Co.                     8-246       n
Seo Hyiun Gak Co.                 5-247       n
Tong 11 Heavy Mach Co., Ltd.    B-248
Han Kuk  Miwoola Co:, Ltd.        8-249                                                                                                                                0.
Yeun Color Devel. Co.             8-250        5         145     10    145      1      15      2       15     6.0   59.1    7.6    59.0  1.7   21.5    2.0   21.5  a,
Han I1 Neuoo Co.                  B-251       640        901    650    920    27       37     30      40    22.9   23.7   23.0   24.0   8.9    9.6    9.0   10.0
Sam Uae Laver Co., Ltd.           B-252      1,493    5,766  1,300  5,600    21       64      18       60     9.0   18.4    8.1   17.1   2.7    5.6    2.2    4.6
Sam Cheun Ri Class Co.            B-253      Prepaid
Sam Hong Heavy Equip. Co.         B-254
Dae Han Export Packing Co.        B-255
Dae Li. Co.                       B-256       510        719    500    730    19       26      19      30    22.1   23.4   22.0   23.6   6.6    8.0    6.4    8.2
Rainbow Q.S. Co.                  B-257      Prepaid
Dae Sung Chemical Ind. Co.        8-258       361        629    300    620       6     22      -5      20      9.7   23.5   -5.6   22.1   4.5    9.1   -3.0    8.6
Seung Han Knitting                B-259      Prepaid
Hee Mun Sa Co.                    B-260       477        698    470    700    18       23      18      25      9.3   10.6    9.3   11.0   6.5    6.8    6.5    7.0
_Seo Myun Heavy Equip._ ___ B-26L.     81$              192      80- -190    15-    34-  -15 *----.34 -16.4   26;1   16.4-- 25.1  10.8-  9.1 -.8 --8:6
HVa Jin Heavy Equip.              3-262       Prepaid
Dong-A Color Devel. Co.            B:263
Soo Bong Ind. Co.                 B-264        335       468    340    470    16        17     15       18    12.7   11.8   12.3   12.0   7.0    6.2    6.8    6.5 0 ?b
Myung Sung Wooden Co.             B-265       Prepaid                                                 - -       -
. . -                                                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



8-1 Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan 2144-KO
Sub-       _         STotal Sales.                   Profits                     Net worth    Proit  asc6 cs
Subproject                  Project      Estimate          Actual      Estimate         Actual         Estizate       Actual        Estimate       Actual
No.        isct yr.  2nd yr. 1st yr. 2id yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  Ist yr. 2nd yr. 1st yr. 2nd yr. 1st yr. 2nd yr.  st yr. 2nd yr. 1st yr. 2nd yr.
Dong bang Printing Co.              B-267    Prepaid
Chia Chin Kul San Co.               B-268      n
Dong Shin Photo Co.                 B-269       53         85     50      80     9      15      8       14    27.3   34.5   26.8   33.6  17.1   18.6   17.0   18.1
Hyub Woo Corp.                      B-271      543        619    540    600      4      13      4       13     6.6   15.9    6.5   15.8   1.2    3.4    1.2    3.1
eons Won Moon Wha Sa                B-272    Prepaid
Seoul Video Product Co              B-273                                                                                                                                  -
Buli Ind. Co.                       B-274      "
Shin Ran Co.                        B-275
Ran Do Co., Ltd.                    B-276       351       425    350    430    17       32      17      32    30.2   35.8   30.2   35.8   7.8   s5.2    7.8   15.2
Dong Shin  Printing Co.             1-277     Prepaid
O'.1
Sea Ran Photo Co.                   B-278
Sam Young Co., Ind.                 3-279       '
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.             3-280
KyZng Shin Chemical Co., Ltd.       B-281
Woo Lim Nachinery Co.               B-282
Cbung-Lim Color Co.                 3-283
Sam Young Co.                       B-264
Too-Lim Printing Co.                3-285
Chung Na Glsas Co., Ltd.            3-286
Bong Rae Heavy Equip. Co.           B-287-      180        255    170.   260    39       60     38       60    24.6   33.9   23.9   34.0  13.8   22.1   13.1   22.0
--Mor1d-Pboto-Con ,-Ltdr--->      -    B-288pfi--j ir   . - ~- -  . - - -----**  ----...---..--.--
Jaeil Printing Co.                  B-289       "
Dae Wtang Paper "FG. Co.            i-290 "
Ta¢ Young Textile Co.               3-291       529        563    500    570    76;    79       70       80    45.4   32.1   43.1   31.1  17.4   16.3   17.0   16.5
Se Jin Co.              B-292   -.  SB _                    63     55.    60_ l7J    19          16   _ .18    2$J_. 25.9   24.3   24.6. 12.8 ._14.5._ 1.9   13.2 o 



8-1 Characteristics of suburoiects financed under Loan  214-KO
Total Sales                    Profits                                   Profits aS 2 of
Sub-                                                                             Net worth                   total  assets
Subproject                 Project      Estimate          Actuwl       Estimate         Actual         Estimate       Actual        Estimate       Actual
No.         Ist yr.  2nd yr. lst yr. 2nd'yr. lst yr.bdyr.  Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Istyr. 2d yr.  st yr. 2nd yr. lt yr. 2ndyr.
Toe Jin Enterprise Co.             B-293      882        882    880    880    12       31      12      30      2.6    6.5    2.6    6.5   1.4    3.8    1.5    3.8
San Ban Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   5-294       Prepaid
Seung tuk leavy Equip. Co.         B-295
Min 8yang Shik Surgsery            B-296       180       270    180    270    28       58      30      60    10.7   11.8   10.9   12.0   7.2    9.3    7.5    9.5
lwa Sung Heavy Equip. Co.          B-297        48        53      40     55      5      6       4       8    17.8   19.9   16.1   20.0  10.8   12.9   10.0   13.0
Han Young Hosiery  Co.             3-298      Prepaid
Union Printing Co.                 B-299       166       239    170    250    10       11      10      15    16.7   16.2   16.7   16.9   9.8    8.3    9.8    8.9
Dae Dan  Constr. K/C Co., Ltd.   B-300        Prepaid
Sharing lud. Co.                   8-301       n                                                                                                  *
Rua  Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.        B-303       nt
Korea Electronics Proution Co.   5-304         576       852    570    850    27       52      25      so    36.3   41.8   35.9   41.3  11.8   14.5   11.2   13.9
Daeryuk Reavy Equip. Co.           3-305      Prepaid
Hyup Jin 8e4ay Equip. Co.          B-306       n
Doe 11 Shinaun Co.                 3-307       n
Do It lad. Co., Ltd.               3-308
Won Dan8 Printing Co.              3-309       i
Cho tl Co.                         3-310       "
Saa Sung Color Co..                B-311
Doe Jin metal Co.                  B-312       "
gwv Cun 8eevy Equip. Co., Ltd. 8-313  "  _
- -  ugnYiB^nCSlorCo.                  B313        "               -**~'  
Wasn Ak Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-316         n
3OD8 Rat Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  3-317         216  .   298    200    300    44         65     40       65    33.6   40.7   32.1   40.8  15.4   19.7   14.7   19.9
Hva Sung Industry Co., Ltd.        3-318      Prepaid
_-__SaM Ueun_Textile Co.            1 _                                                           " _                                      °
I'I'



8-1  Characteristics of subProiectt financed under Loan  2144-KO
Sub-                 Total Sales                     Profits                                  Profits as r  of
Noet vorth                   total aset;*s~
Subproject                  Project     Estimate           Actual      Estimaste        Actual         Estimate       Actual        Eatimate       Actual
No.        1st yr.  2ad yr. laet yr. 2nd yr. lst yr. 2nd yr.  Ist yr. 2nd yr. lst yr. W yr. 1st yr. 21 yr. Ist yr. 2nl yr. let yr. 2n yr.
hto  Color Co.                        B-320    Prepaid
ba- Ryuk Heavy Equip Co., Ltd.        B-321
Jeong Color Co.                       5-322      '
Hyungdong Contact Lense Co.           B-323       62         67     60      70     4      8       5      10    14.9   22.3   15.0   22.5   7.4   10.4    7.5   11.0
Shin Jin Tire Co.                     B-324    1,060    1,186  1,000  1,200    52        59      50      60    41.2   37.7   41.0   40.0  10.6   11.1   10.5   11.5
Sam tYang Heavy Equip. Mach. Co.    3-325        438        521    440    520    52      84      S0      80    35.0   43.5   34.6   42.1  11.7   14.9   11.2   14.3
Hva Sung Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-326    Prepaid
Lees Color Co.                        B-327      "
New Noon Wha Color Co.                B-328      et
11 Kvang Ind. Co.                     B-329      "
oe Kun Heavy Equip. Mach. Co., Ltd. B-330        403        419    400    410    72       78     70       75    54.4   48.2   53.1   47.6  15.9   18.5   15.0   18.1  t
Rang's Color Co.                      B-331     Prepaid
Ranil toolsan Co.                     8-332      "
Sang Pyeong Trading Co.               B-333      105        197    110    200      9      18     10       20    12.9   21.5   13.0   22.0   6.6   11.7    7.0   12.0
Dong Bang Color Co.                   B-334    Prepaid
Dong-A Printing Co.                   B-335      251        352    260    380    21       30     25       33    16.9   19.7   17.6   20.0  10.0   11.7   10.5   12.1
Wha Jin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.        B-337      166        268    150    270    49       81     45       80    69.5   73.0   66.2   73.0  16.0   24.7   15.0   24.5
Bong Rae Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-338        Prepaid
tva Chun Beavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-339          90        170     90    190    14       28      15      30    41.9   58.4   42.0   58.5   7.1   13.5    7.3   13.8
Sang Shin Book Bind Co.               5-341      152        163    150    170    15       16      15      18    22.1   19.3   22.1   19.8  12.2    9.5   12.5    9.8
____________________________.--___                                                                                                                               I



Characteristics of subprojects financed under Loan 2215-3KR
Sub-                  Total Sales                       Profits                                    Profits as S  o£
-Net vorth                    total assets
Subproject                   Project       Estimate           Actual        Estimate         Actual                                        Estte           Actual
14.        slt yr.  lad yr. 1st yr. 2l yr. Ist yr. 2ud yr.  Ilt yr. 2ad yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2n1 yr. Ist yr. 2a  yr. 1st yr. 2d yr.
Eul Yoo lad. Co.                   A-001        Prepid
Deelynag ld. Co.                  A-002
Je I1 Precision Ind. Co.           B-001
Moo Rim Wire Cutting Co.           3-003          41      277     40      280       3    13        4       15      8.3    27.7   8.3   27.7    3.0    10.9    3.0    10.9
Dea Yang Electronics Co.           B-004         476     S31    480       530      14   14        14       14     16.0    10.9   16.0   10.9   10.5      6.3   10.5      6.3
Sae Won Trans lnd. Co., Ltd.   3-005             703    1,182    700    1,180       4    24        5       24      5.5    30.7    5.5   30.6    1.7    10.0   1.         10.2
WAr Precision Co.                  B-006        P dpi
Yong Min Co.                       s-007          42       73     35       75       S    11        4       12      2.6   10.9    2.3   10.9    1.4       6.2   1.2        6.0
Se Jong Electronics Co.            B-008        Prepaid                                                                                                 ¶
Won Jin Machinery Co.              B-009
Kook Je Mold & Dies Co.            8-010
Hsn Jin Sang Se                    B-011
Bae Yang Precision                 8-012
YTe  we Machinery Co., Ltd.    s-013
Bo Sung Munhba Co.                 B-014
iui Youtng Printing Co.            s-015          28      308    130       310      6     8        7        8      11.4    13.9   11.3   13.9    5.3     5.9   5.3        5.8
Seoul Pair Glass Co.               8-016        Prepid
Kem Precision Co.                  B-017        2
Korea Pilot Electronics Co.    B-018            2166   2;363    2,100  2,4C0C      I0   107        90      110     24.8    21.0   23.0    2.0    4-7      4.8   4.5       5.0
Uwa Seong Ind. Co.                 B-019         616      735      620   .730       14   42        14      43       8.9    23.8   9.0   2&.0    6.1    12.9   5.9        12.7
Saibit lad. Co.                    3-020         k*
tyundee Printing Co.               B-021         199      368      190     361       7     9        7       10      5.3     6.4    5.2    6.5    4.9      5.6   4.9       SA
Tee Ran Heavy Squip.               B-022        PsqoM
tEo San Ad. Prod. Co., Ltd.    3-024                                                                                                                                            11,4
.Ueo1:5ungl S S C o.~.-- ----3-025-----   308             399    310       40       20     25      2        25     2     9    25.1   25.8   25.0    a2 1.2 _        



R_7 Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan 2215-3TO
Total Sales                       Profits                                     Profits as 2 of
Sub-                                                                                  Net vorth                      cotal 6ssets
Subproject                    Project       Estimate           Actual        Estimate          Actual                          Actual         Estimate        Aetuai
N.          Ist yr.  2nA yr. Ist yr. 2W yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  lst yr. art yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. lst yr. 2z  yr. Ist yr. 2c1 yr. let yr. 2W yr.
Nam San Co.                          B-026        1,661    1,772   1,660   1,770    48    48        45      50        30.0  23.1   29.0   23.5       12.4  12.1      11.8    12.2
Jung Woo Construction                B-027        1,65D    1,650   1,600   1,610    29    25        24      30        11.7   9.9    11.4  10.2        5.3   4.2      5.0     4.5
Chung ISa Neavy Equip. Co.           B-028         134       152     130     140    27    28        25       26       50.5  46.0   49.8   45.8       28.5  26.7     27.9    26.5
Ta. Yaag Textile Co.                 8-029       Prepuid
Dong Sang Medical                    B-030        1,671    2,837   1,650   2,890    17   144        15      150       5.5  35.9    5-3   36.0         5.3  29.2      5.0    30.8
Jung Yea Sa Co.                      B-031          117      176     120     180    12   18         12       18       51.4  54.2   51.4   54.1       13.6  18.0    13.6    18.0
Sao Kwvng Inc.                       B-032       Ppd
Ran Jin Die Casting Co.              0-033       pzepid
Dae It Precision Co.                 B-034         415       823     420     830    27    53        26       54        9.8  17.1     9.8   17.0       4.1   7.7      4.0      7.5
Frankel Ind. Co.                     8-035       hepsid
Juk Chon led. Co.                    1-036
Sung Soo SB  Co.                     B-037
Jung Noon 8a Co.                     B-038
Kwa Chun Reavy Equip. Co.            B-039         lOS           170    100  150    21    25        20       23       51.3  38.3   49.3   35.4        8.6  10.0       8.5     9.3
Korea  K Span Co., Ltd.              B-040        P-psiA
Du Seong Optical                     B-041
Doi Tong Co.                         J-042         261       309    250      300    29    32         28      30       18.4  19.7   17.9   19.2       14.2  13.8      13.9    13.5
Korea Pilot Electronics              t-043        2,299    2,33S   2,100   3,113    167   346        160     350      46.1  53.7    45.3   54.2       8.7  13.2       7.9    14.6
Korea No An Ind. Co.                 8-044        Prkpedd
Hwa Seong Plastic Co.                9-045         770       876     770   . 860    18   51          15      49       11.8  27.8    11.8   26.4       5.1   9.1       5.0     5.9
- Kyung-8bia -Cheu.--Iud^Car-- 8-046----Prea                    -" -   ~-   - --              -                                            ______________
Nvs Sung lad. Co.                    S-047
Sam Ick Electronics  nd. Co.    B-048              "*
NaM  Yang Ink Cheo. lad.             B-049          752    2,113     750   2,300    32   74          30      75       ZL7  34.7   22.5   35.0         7A   10.1       7.2    10.8
Y. G-1 Tool Process Co.__                                                                                                                      _B-Q5Q_         trepid  _  _.   _.  _-  _*  _ _.    _ 2 _  .___ o
_*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



8-2   Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan  2215 3KO
Sub-                  Total Sales                      Profits                                     Profits as S            a   s
Sub-  _                                                        ~~~~~~~~        ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~Net vorth  total asaets  
Subproject                   Project       Estimnate          Actual       Estiate           Actual          Estimate        Actual        Estimate        Actual
No.
lotyr   2zy   It        2m1 y    st yr. 2nd  yr.  Ist yr.  2nd yr.  Ist yr. 2nd   yr.  lot yr. 2nd yr.  lot yr. 2rI yr.  let yr. 2nd  yr.
Dong Bang Color Process Co.             B-051       Prepaid
Sin  Sung Ind. Co.                      8-052
Kun Hang Photograph Studio              B-053         157       342    180    350    19   27          20      30       14.6  17.1   15.0  18.1        10.4  10.8    10.5    11.0
Du Won Precision Co.                    B-054          76       114     80      110   16   22         16      20       19.2  23.4   19.2   22.8        9.1   8.8      9.0     8.5
Ranil Hoolsen Co.                       B-056          78       215     80      220    9    23         9      23        6.1  13.1    6.1   13.1        3.3   7.2      3.2     7.0
Hwa Scong Plastic Co.                   B-057         933     1,227    920   1,200    13   74         10      70        8.6  32.4    7.5   30.2        2.6   8.7      2.3     8.0
Sei Chang Freezing Ind. Co,            B-058        PrepaW
Xyong Jin Textile Co.                   B-059
Sung Bo Heavy Equip. Co.                B-060         n                                                                                                         -
Sung Woo End. Co.                       B-061         355       367    350      370    14   17        14      17        1.1   1.3    1.5    1.5        1.0   1.2      1.0    1.2 "
Kyung Sung Precision Co.                B-062       Prepaid
Tae Young Moontha Printing Co.          B-063         121       406    120      410    13   35         13     35       40.4  23.5   40.4  23.6         31.8  23.5    30.2    23.7
Young Jin  Heavy Equip. Co.             s-064         159       207    160      210    25   41         25     40       28.2  31.6   28.2   31.6        10.6  13.2    10.7    13.6
Shia  Sung Wire Cutting Co.            B-065        Prepaid
Shir. Sung Embroidery Co.               B-067         253       305    250      300    34   4:         34     42       61.9  46.3   58.6   45.2       19.0  16.9    18.5    16.7
Kwa Chun Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-068            P-Paid
Shin Byun Constr. Co., Ltd.             8-069         950     1,033     940   1,010    32   28         30      30       22.3  16.2   22.3   17.0       4.7   4.1       4.5    4.3
Ando Enterprise Co., Ltd.               B-071          50       121      50     120     8    42         8      42       29.8  84.4   29.8   80.3       4.4  20.2       4.5    19.1
Sam Boo Production Co., Ltd.            H-072        2,743    2,839   2,720   2,850    54   57-        50      60       12.9  12.0   11.8   12.3        3.7   4.1      3.5    4.3
Han Young Co.                           B-073          64        95      65  * 100    10   24          10      25       11.0  22.0   11.0   22.0        5.9  13.0      5.8   13.0  _
Kyong.Jin Textile Co.                  B-074         Ptepid
Dae  Ryuk Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-075
Seo Rim Embroidery Co.                  B-076                                                                                                                                     "
Woo 11 Xnd. Co.                         B-077
Shin-Jung- lylonrCo:--- -               B--078----  -            -                                     -.                                                                         u



8-2   Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan 2215-3KO
Total Sales                      Profits                                     Profits as Z of                         ;
Sub-          -                                                -                     Net worth                     total assets
Subproject                   Project       Estimate           Actual       Estimate          Actual          Estimate        Actual        Estimate        Actual
No.         Ist yr.  2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. 1st yr. 2zd yr.  Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2rd yr. lst yr. 2nd yr. let yr. 2rd yr.
Dong I1 Embroidery Co.                 B-080        Ptepsiid
Surabul Record Co.                     B-081         656       660    650      670    34   34         32      35        9.1   8.3    8.9   8.5         5.8   5.7      5.5     5.7
San Jin Corp.                          B-082         403       450    400      450    27   33         27      33       48.1  36.8   47.9  36.9        13.2 ' 15.4    13.1    15.6
Misung Plastic Co.                     B-083        Prepaid
Kong Gac Glove Co.                     B-084
Ho Chum Ind. Co.                       B-086        2,287    6,781   2,290   6,800    63   318        60    320        29.4  65.9   28.9  66.0         6.6  20.8      6.5    21.0
Shin Han Printing Co.                  B-087         289       786    290      790    16   31         16      32       25.4  32.9   25.3  33.0         9.1  11.5     9.0    11.8
Kum Soo Precision Co.                  B-088        prepaid
Cho Kwang Class Co.                    B-089                                                                                                                                       -I
A-Sung Corp.                           B-090          35        60      35      56     1     8         2       8        2.9  13.6    2.8   13.6        1.8   9.1      1.5    9.2
Ah Sung Heavy Mach. Co., Ltd.          B-091          112      199    110      120    11   38         11      35       17.9  38.1    17.8  37.2        4.2  13.6      4.2    12.3
Hyundai Special Rubber Ind. Co.    B-092            Ptepsid
Shin  1 Glass Co.                     B-093         481       814    490      840    12   30         12      30        4.7  10.3    4.7   10.3        2.8   6.1      2.8    6.1
Heung I1 Ind. Co., Ltd.                B-094        1,470     1,945   1,390   1,920   115   1i6      100    165        34.0  30.0   33.1  29.3         6.7   8.6      5.8    7.9  _
Star World Co.                         B-096        Pepsid
Ewa Sung Co.                           B-097          86        86      90      90    22    24        22      25       17.0  17.0   17.0  17.1        10.1  17.0    10.1    17.0
Saeaa  Ind. Co.                        B-098          88       283'    90      280    12   28         12      27       25.6  37.5   25.3  37.2         6.1  11.5      6.0    11.6
Hyundai Integrated.                    B-099          750     1,5U2    750   1,540    2D   35         20      35       24.5  29.3   24.5  29.1        11.1   9.4    11.0    9.5 
Samjeon Ind.                           B-100        Prepaid
Eva Sung_Equip.       _3_B-101__                      63       114_   60       109     9    16         8      14       20.5  27.5      19.2  26.2      6.6  11.6      6.3    11.
Dae Hyumg Ind.                          I-102       Prepsid
Dae Joo Fine Chem. Co.                 B-1.03        r                                                                          .
Kyung In Ceremics Co.                  B-104           301    489    300       470    28    30        26      28      169.6  64.5   150.3  62.3        9.3   9.6      8.9    4.0
Jumbo Enterpriae                       B-107         Le p ad
'~thng'Electronic6Co'.~~~  'BC108   ''    31                   -92    '3D        90    11-   23        11  ''-23'''   25.0(' 35.8   25.0  35.7          8.9-11.O       9.0   1i. t



8-2 Characteristics of subproiects financed under Loan 2215-31D
Total Sales                         Profits                                         Profits Vs I of
Sub-                    lotal Sales                          Profits                        Net worth                         total assets
Subproject                      Project       Estimate             Actual         Estimate           Actual           Escimate         Actual          Estimate          Actual
lt ysr.  2nd yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr. Ist yr. 2ad yr.  Ist yr.  2W yr. Ist yr. 2nd yr.  lt yr. 2r1 yr.  Ist yr. 2d yr.  Ist yr. 2rd yr.
Kyung Sung Precision Co.  B-109            Prepaid
Sbin Soeng Precision Co.  B-110
Oh Sung Boring Co.              a-Ill        126       174      130      170      6     9          6       10         3.0   4.7       3.0    5.0         2.7   3.5       2.7      3.0
Tae Kwang Electronic Co.  B-112             P9ad
Cheeng Woo Ind.                  -113        631       743      650      750    13    U           13       13         5.0   4.2       5.0    4.8         2.4   1.9       2.4      2.2
.                                                                                                                          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a
0 'I
Ot
. . _ ; -~~~~~~~. 



Financial and econoamic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan  2144-rO
Capacity IJtiitimix Exrt (U willim)       Export as  Direct     Estimated    Estimated
Sub-                             _       (S)                          2 of       imports    employment   value added
Subproject                ptoject       Locion          eg  A- el   E                Acul        to        of r        on            1st   2nE
no.  Locotiott                                       SRI~~~~~ ....4.pincrenental  lot   2nd
lst 2nd  lst 2nd  lst 2nd  lst 2nd    lst 2nd  1s8  2nd    bakis             yr.   yr.
3r. vr. yr. yr.  vT. vr.  ,r. yr. vr      .           vr.  vr.               (  miillon)
Sagm Yag Havy Machinery       .        A-OO1        Repaid
Man Jin Reavy Equipment Co.            A-002        Prepaid
Choong Book beavy Equip. Co., Ltd. A-003
Sam Kwang Conetr. lachinery Co.       A-004
Huam Reavy Equipment Co., Ltd.        A-005         Seoul          80   85   80  85                                                     6        304    375  29.5   36.3
Sam la Dewelopment Co.                A-006         Prepaid
Ran Chang Industrial Co.              A-007
Shin Sung Industrial Co.              A-008           .
au Heavy Equipment Co., Ltd.           A-009
Dae Jong leavy Equipment.              A-OlO        Seoul          85   85   85  e5                                                    10        183 280  19.8   31.5
Dae Jih textile Co., Ltd.              A-Ol        Prepaid
hia Jin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.         A-012
Sung Bo Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.         A-013
Date  evy l(ach. Co., Ltd.             A-014
Jung Suck Constr. Co., Ltd.            A-015        Seoul          80   85   80  85                                                     3        141    171  24.9   45.3
Sam Lip Printing Co.                   A-016        Prepaid
Shin Kwens RD Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.B-O01          Repaid
Jeon Sam teavy Equipment        a       -002       Prepaid
Rea Chul Clinic                        B-003          '
luu   eavy Equipment                   B-004       Seoul           85   90   85  a5                                                    13        78      164
moon IRV  Color Co.                    B-005       Prepaid
8ung.Ho  Ledic 'sea Co.                 B-006 _
Doug In Textile Co.                    B-010
Sunchunhyang Clinic                   *B-011       Pusan          80   85   80  85                S                                     2        189    216              b
Sin An Sajin Jepan Co.                 B-012       Prepaid
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -1



9-1 Financial and economic indicators of subprojecets
financed under Loan   2144-RO     _
t                  Export as Direct    Estimated    Estimated
Sub-                       CaWcxty Utilizatin Export :1 million)     2 of       imports    employment   value added                 _.
Subproject               project                      Eatiste  k         EscmW    A            Total      of rae     on                   1d          ERR
NO.       Location       EsiaeAta            sirc    cul          RI         &%trai  incremental  lot   2nd
1st 2nd  lst 2nd  Ist 2nd  lst 2nd    Ist 2nd  lot  2nd        basis        yr. ir.
yr. yr. yr. vr. yr. yr.  yr. yr.   yp  j    vr.  vr.                       (U millon)
Sam Jin Co.                         B-013        Jeotnam        80   80   80  80                                                   11         S    212
Mi Do Co.                           B-014          n            70   70   71  73                                                   28        130    325
Rae Seo Co.                         B-015                       80   85   80  85                                                   10        135    205
Jae I1 Co.                          B-016                       s0   80   80  80                                                   11         85    212
Rwan Dong Co.                       B-017          n            80   85   80  80                                                   10         33    118
Dae Yang Co.                        B-018          n            80   85   80  82                                                   10         33    117
Nu Doung Co.                        3-019                       80   85   80  85                                                    11        76    142
fwa Sung Co.                        B-020                       80   85   78  83                                                   10         32    189
HVJ Weon Co.                        B-021          n            90   95   85  89                                                   -8        171    171
Dae 11 Constr. Co.                  B-022        Prepaid
Bu Sung Heavy machinery Co.         B-023
Shin Noung Heavy Equip. Co.         B-024        Seoul          85   85   85  85                                                    15       150    366
Man Ho Co.                          B-025        Jeona.         80   85   80  83                                                    10        24      98
Mi Seong Co.                        B-026        Prepaid
Byun Shan Co.                       8-027                                                                                                                                 ;
Dae Weon Co.                        B-028        Jeonnam        80   85   78  83                                                    11        44    118
To Kun Heavy Equip. Mach. Co.       3-029        Seoul          80   85   80  85                                                     5        69    150
bang Sa Co.                         B-030        Jeonnm         80   85   77  82                                                    4         90    147
Eun Ra Co.                          3-031        Jeonnm         80   85   80  80                                                    12        30    122
Sanil Conatr. Machinery Co.         B-033        Seoul          90   90   85  88                                                     8       137    207
Hlak Ga Co.                         B-034        Jeonnam        80   85   80  84                                                    10        44    141
Shin Tao Yang Constr. Co., Ltd.   B-035          Seoul          85   85   85  85                                                    2        250    275
h Co-3 onna  t80   80   78  80 -                                                   o10      45    114
Woo Shin Industry Co., Ltd.         B-037        Kyunggi        90   90   90  92                                                    19        91    273              e 
Korea X-Rays Clinic                 B-038        Prepaid                                      
oIp ;
_                                                                                                                                     . .... .....-  . .           ,,9



9-1  Financial sad economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan 2144-KO
Export as Direct      Estimated    Estimated
8ubpsojec  Sub-            Capaci.ty Uti iatimn axort (h million)   S of      imports    employment   vslue added
SNoe         Location      Estimate  ACxa    Estatb  Actual    lc4l           : .a         incremental  lst   2nd                -
lot 2nd  lst 2nd  1st 2nd  1st 2nd    Ist 2nd  1st  2nd    basis           yr.   yr.
yr. yr.  Yr. yr.  yr  rr  yr.  r.                 r. r (Y  ilion
Weon Co.                        B-039        Jeonnem        90   90   90  90                                                  10         32    126
Dong Ab Co.                     B-040        Prepaid
Jeong Seok Heavy qquipment    B-041
Soo Do Heavy Equipmnt           B-042        Seoul          90   90   88  90                                                   1        828    871
Weonpori Co.                    B-043        Jeofnan        90   90   89  90                                                  10         36    143
Doe Seong Co.                   s-044        Jeonnam        70   70   75  80                                                  10         90    249
Dae Lis Co.                      -045                       60   60   60  60                                                  10         21    122
Dong Shin Co.                   8-046                       60   60   70  75                                                   9         27    108
Tase Chang Co.                  B-047        Jeonbook       80   80   80  80                                                  10         51    137
Rae Sung Co.                    B-049        Jeonm          65   65   65  65                                                  18         52    103
Doug Yang Co.                   3-050        Prepaid
Dado Co.                        B-051        Jeonnam        80  90  80  86                                                     6         84    120
Pyung Suck Co.                  B-052        Jeonnan        90   85   85  85                                                  12         58    138
Dong 1i Co.                     B-053        Choongpam      90   85   90  90                                                  12         58    138
Kei Seong Co.                   B-054        Kyunggi        90   90   90  90                                                  10         23    138
Ban Ryo Foods Co.               B-055        Prepaid
Dae-A Lead Wire Co., Ltd.       B-056        xyumi          70   70   75  77                                                   6        402    594
Young Kwang Co.                 B-057         Seoul         70   75   70  75                                                   1        161    228
Dae Chang Oo.                   3-059        Jeonan         80   80   80  80                                                  10         54    137
Ho Nab Auto Ind., Co.           B-060        Jeonbook       82   93   85  93                                                   1        354    416
It Deung Co.                    B-061        Prepaid
Sam Jin Indusetrial Co.         3-062
gSm Jin Co.                     B-063        Jeonam         80   8S   80  84                                                  20         18    117                -.
Song Gong Co.                  .3-064                       80   80   80  80                                                  10         45    114
ma Yang CO.                     B-065        Prepaid
(-)



9-1 Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan  2144-KO
~~    ~   f~a~ (V ..llion)     Export as Direct       Estimated      Estimated
Sub.                       C__city Ut_i__t__i_ E       _r_t _Wcilli_ _   2 of    imports    employment   value added                 -
Subproject                proct         LoIation         t         t      t             a       local      of roe      ond                              EnU  _
NO.Loctio  Eainae   Auld      EStmIt   Aeual        Ina         nepin    inceremental -e         n
lot 2nd  Ist 2nd  lst 2nd  Ist 2nd    1st 2nd   1st  2nd        babis        yr.   yr.
Vr T yr.  Tr. VT.                                  vr._r (vr                 w     lil _
Sam  sae Foods Co., Ltd.  .         B-066         Ryuaggi         70  70   75  78                                                   17         457 1,170
Dal Sung Co.                         B-067        Jeonnam         80  80   80  80                                                   48         161   353
Uri Color Co.                       B-068         Seoul           75  80   75  80                                                    5          13    80
Kyung Bo Eabroidery Co.              B-069        Seoul           80  90   80  93                                                    2          64    77
Do Keing Construction Co., Ltd.   B-070           Seoul           60  60   65  70                                                    2         *44   226
Ran Kook Sang Gong Ss                B-071        Seoul           60  60   70  70                                                    2         238   363
Dae Ran Road Line paint Co., Ltd. B-072           Seoul           60  60   66  70                                                    2         247   377
Seong Jang Co.                      B-073         Jeonnam         80  85   80  83                                                   10          14   118
Ka ma Co.                            B-074        Prepaid
Shin An Co.                          8-075        Jeonnan         80  85   78  82                                                   13          14    92
H n Kook Geological Co., Ltd.        5-076        Kyunggi         80  80   80  85                                                    8          42   141
Xyung Jin Co.                        1-077        Jeonas.         70  75   70  75                                                    14          86   234
man Poong Co.                        B-078        Jeonnam         80  80   80  80                                                   10           54   137
Dae Cbeon Co.                        B-079        Prepaid
Chun ln Co.                          B-080        Jeonnam         80  80   80  80                                                    37          55   211
Jeon NaM Co.                         8-081        Prepaid
Chil Sung Co.                        B-082        Jeonam          70  70   70  70                                                     6          40   130
1k Cum Co.                          B-083           n             80  80   78  78                                                   10          39   133
Sam Yang Construction Co.            E-084        Seoul           70  75   73  78                                                     2         279   391         .       -
Chung Ju Chai. Iad. Co.              3-085        Chungbuk        70  70   75  75                                                    12          °2   143
Sang Shin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-087           Seoul           80  80   80  85                                                     9          36   169
KUM Chi Kong Co.                     B-0.         Jeonna'          8080  8080 o s s                                                  10          27   135
Shin  Iwang Co.                      8-089        Jeonbook        80  85   80  80                                                    14          45   119
Tee Won Co.                         *8-090        Prepaid
Rae Uba Co.                          B-091            aa                                                                                                               ,
o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0..._._.._......................----1
JU



9-1  Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan 2144..O
copcit utlixti   bqt    mlin          Export as Direct      Estimeted    Estimated
Sub-                                                                  % of       imports    employment   value edded
Subproject                project                     Esimt~e   Acuil   Estice  Acua            Total      of row      Oa                           n  ERR
No.  Locatiolk                                      Q~~t.. I         "    incremental -let   2nd
Ist 2nd  1st 2nd  lot 2nd  Ist 2nd    Ist 2ad   Ist  2nid    bnj             yriyr
Yr. Yr.  Tr. yr.  Vr. yr.  vr. vr.    r'r           r.  yr.                  Vmlin
Do Ii CO.                                       Prepaid
Sung Bak food Co.                  3-093        Jeounna         75   85   77  85                                                    12         21   119
Doe Kok Co.                        5-094        Prepaid
Sam Rae CO.                        1-095        Jeonnam         so0    0 so  s80                                                    10         27   135
Sam Yang foods Co.                 B-097        Prepaid
Shin  Seong Steel Co.. Ltd.        3-098          i
Ovang £1 Co.                       B-099        Jeonbook        80   60   60  80                                                     11       143   2866
Hvaeung mtd. Co.                   3-100        Prepaid
man so Co.                         B.101        Jeonnan         80   85   82  85                                                     12         10   l18
Won 11 Machinery Ind. Co.          1-102        Prepaid
Youing Doug Color Devel. Co.       3-103          i
Daewoo Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   3-104             i
Dae Yang Co.                       3-105
Die Deok Hospital                  3-106          i
Hi Ewang Color Devel. Co.          3-109
One Color Devel. Co.               3-111          i
Doug Bang Medical business Co.  3-112             i
Uyundai Civil tag. & Const. Co. 1-113           KY-ungam        80.  so   s0  80                                                     2        207   215
Hva Sung Trading Co.               1.114        Prepaid
Shin thea Construction Co.         3-115         it
Chon  Evap Heavy Equip.            1-116        Choonguam       s0   80   80  80                                                     3         20    31
Jeong Seok Heavy Equip. Co.        3-118
DOUg Sung Heavy 2quip.             3-119        Pusan          100  100   97  98                                                     3         92    96
Sbin Wood Ind. Co.                 1-120        Prepaid



9.1 Financial and econoMic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan    2144-RO
Cpsciy Ut~tiu~  iipxt(V g~flj~)   Export as Direct        Estimated      Estimated
Sub-                                  U    1cty   &qxrt 1w tioo            2 of       imports    employment   value added                      -
Subproject                  project       Location        Estite  Actual    Estate   Actual             ta,         t          incremental   1st   2nd                     -
lset 2nd  1st 2nd  ist 2nd  1st 2nd        1st 2nd   1st  2nd       baiis         yr.   yr
_  _vr. vr.  vr. vr.  vr. vr.  vr. Yr.    y    F    vr.  vr_.                 -      million)
Duck Sung Ueavy Equip.                  S B-123         Seoul            85   90   85  88                                                          8         42    79
Chong RHap Heavy Equip. Co.             B-124          Choongmam         85   90   85  90                                                          2         40    69
Dae Lim Chemical Imd. Co.               B-125          Seoul             80   80   81  83                                                          4        154   234
young Jin Heavy Equip.                  8-127          Prepaid
Woo Civil Engineering Co., Ltd.          8-128
Su Sung Reavy Machinery Co., Ltd.  B-129
Je I1 Boring Co.                        B-130
Park Seung-Ro X-Ray Clinic              B-131
ytyup Wang Pringting Co.                B-132          Seoul             85   90   85  90                                                          6          95.  110
Sam Ho Heavy Machinery                  B-133          Seoul             90   90   85  90                                                         -1         53    53  25.3  46.6
Dae Sung Co.                            8-134          Prepaid
Ayun Ree Embroidery                      8-135         Seoul             85   85   85  85                                                          2          52    60                  °
Silra Embroidery Co.                    B-136          Seoul             90   95   88  93                                                          3         46    57
Hyundai D.P.                            B-138          Prepaid
Youngwon Industrial Co.                 B-139
To Kun Heavy Equip. Mach.                B-140         Seoul             85   85   85  88                                                          4         216   318  24.2  29.2
Sam 11 Constr. Macb.                    B-142          Seoul             90   90   85  90                                                          -        164   206
Seong Won lnd. Co.                       B-143         Prepaid
Baik Hw. Special Glove MFG.              B-144
NWu  Sung Co.                           B-145
Shin Beung Packing Paper                 B-147
Sehan Princing,Co .                     B-148 
Baikhap Fiber Ind. Co.                  B-149          Seoul             90   90   90  90                                                          3           8    27
Nam Hi Industry Co.                     .3-150         Prepaid
Hyo Chang Ind. Co.                       3-151
. .                                                                                                                                    o tst°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



9-1 Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan 2144-KO
Export aS Direct      Estimated    Estimated
Sub-                                   (1Cacity Ctilizati  Exyt (W killio)  2 of  imports    employment   value added
Subproject                project                      Eationce  Actual    l         Actual     Ttal       o rem e      n            .st 2n        FRR  ERR
No.           otit                                                     AO         a,iggiceetl1t ld
lst 2nd  let 2nd  1st 2nd  Ist 2nd    lst 2nd  lst  2nd         bakis        yr.   yr.
yr. yr.  yr. vr.  yr. Yr.  vr. vr.    yr  r-  Yr.  yr.                      (W million)
Han Cook Decal Co., Ltd..          B-152         Seoul           80   80   80  80                                                     4        194   304
Hyup Wang Printing Co.             B-153         Seoul           85   85   85  85                                                     6        160   185
Pyung Rva Ind. Co.                 B-154         Prepaid
Dokit Bed Co.                      B-155         Kyunggi         85   85   85  86                                                     2        160   292
Sam Lung Printing Co.              B-156         Pusan           85   85   83  85                                                     3         25    35
Dong Nam Meat Process Co., Ltd. B-157            Prepaid
Bong Hvang Enterprise              B-159         Seoul           80   80   80  80                                                     2         43    48
Tong II Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-160           Prepaid
RYup Sung Enterprise               B-161         Seoul           30   30   40  40                                                      7        141-  169
Asia Ind. Co.                      B-162         Seoul           90   90   85  90                                                      5         72   110
Ran Kook Tannin Co., Ltd.          B-164         PTepaid
Young Buk Co.                      B-165
Chun Ro Co.                        B-166         Seoul            85   90   85  88                                                     2         48    70
Shir.  Sung Ind. Co.               B-167           "              80   80   81  84                                                     2        103   138
Buheung Ind. Co.                   B-168          Incheon         85   90   85  90                                                     5         15    49
Um Chang Fiber Co.                 B-169          Prepaid
R.yung Reung Ind. Co.              B-170           It
Jeon Suk Heavy Equip.              B-171         Jeoabuk          70   70   75  75                                                     6         84   172
Tae Bok Co.                        3-172          Prepaid
Young Sam Trading Co.              B-173
Kut Pontg Cloves Ind. Co.          B-174            n
Hyun Dac Imbroidery Co.            B-176    _ _ _ _
Woo 21 Ind. Co.                    B-178
Sam Song Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd. B-179               "                                                                            
Sam Woo Ind. Co.                   B-180



9-1 Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
-finanged under--Loan  2 144-KD 
Odlizay tim £lort (V ~Uiaon         Export as Direct       Estimated    Estimated
Suab-                      'a3y       (2 ___________                     of    imports    employment   value added
Subproject                project                     Estimate  Acnml    Wbt   Actua           To al     of row      on                          PU   3*Mm
NO.    ~  Location                                               9*.4a   ~     pr4alft  increMental  lot   2nd 
1sc 2nd  lot 2nd  lot 2nd  lot 2nd    Ist 2nd   lot  2nd    bahis           yr    y.
yr. yr.  yr. yr.  Yr. Yr.  TV. TV.    ..          Y.yr                      Unilot
Fu3ica Color Co.                     8-161         Prepaid
flong Shiat Sobanggi Co.             3-1S2         Seoul           85   85   85  85                                                    6         25    73
88 Color Devel. Co.                  3-183                         60   60   65  70                                                    4         is   Ill
D0ne Rae Heavy Macbinaery Co.        B-184           9'90   95   90  92                                                                2        128   143
Dong tl Silk Co.                     3-187                         75   75   75  so                                                   -           1    90
Dong Bang printing Co.               B-188           9             s0   80   80  806                                                            12     2
Tong II Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       3.139         Prepaid
Gange Gyougs Blab S*                 3-191           9
Youn Do food Ind. Co.                6-192         Choongnm        85   65   83  85                                                   17         67   426
Gu R.ang Foods Co.                   B-194         Prepaid
Bo-Keng Rug. Co.                     B.!9,                                                                                                                              Co
Ban Do Co.                           3-196           9
Wloo 3mn Construttion & En$.          B-198          .
Sam Ran Hleavy Equip. Co., Ltd.      3.199         Seoul           80   so   8o  83                                                    2        152   163
Des Jlin Blinder Co.                 8-200                         80   80o  8080o                                                     -         68    91
IKuk Jo General Printing Co.         3-201         Prepaid
baa Sung Ind. Co.                    3-202
bae fiha foundation mId. Co.         3-203         Pusan           85   90   85  88                                                   16         22   265
Ye xl CO.                            8-204         Seoul           80   80   80  83                                                    4          8    54
Kyung Lin Ind. Co.                   8-205         Prepaid
Ram Do Oil.s Co., Ltd.                5-206          9
-Y.u -waaixi~ns Pd&                   8-207            9 
Kuk Su"g Recomposition Print Co.   8-2088
To Sin Ind. Co.                      S-209
Rynuc Dei Printing  Co.              3-210
-.- . -.-.--.------.-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



9- L financial and economic indi-cators of subprojeets
financed under Loan   2144-RC  _ 
CAPaity utisiatiun LEort (V million)      Export Bs  Direct      Estimated    Escimated
Sub-                              _     t)                             2 of       imports    employment   value added
.Subproject                projeet       Location       Estimate  Ahial   Esttsma    Actual       Total      of  oy                    l*t   2nd            E
NO.  Location                                        SA1 0                  incremental -s         a
1st 2nd  Ist 2nd  lot 2nd  1st 2nd    ist 2nd   lst  2nd         basi         yr.   T .
yr. vr.  vr. vr.  vt. vr.  vr. vrT .               vr.  vr.                    V milion 
Oh Jae Dong Surgical Clinic         B-211         Prepaid
Ycung Who Printing Co.              B-212         Seoul           80   80   80  82                                                      4         132   216
Kum Poong Fiber Co.                 8-213                         80   80   80  80                                                      2          11    17
Jin Sung Packaging Co.              B-214         Prepaid
Pal Gi Co., Ltd.                    B-213           n
Chang Sung Fiber Co.                B-216
Daoeeong Co.                        8-217
Doug Yang Gloves Co.                B-219         Seoul           85   90   85  88                                                      2          17    29
Ran kook Livestock Process Co.  5-220             Prepaid
leuns 11 Printing Co.               5-221         Seoul           80   80   80  80                                                      1          32    65
Seo Cab Won X-Ray Clinic            B-223         Prepaid
loaQng Printing Co., Ltd.           B-224                                                                                                                                  a
Young Naw Co.                       B-225
Dug Sin Metal Co., Ltd.             5-227
Ko 3O Wire Iad. Co., Ltd.           1-228
Sao  mon Plastic Co.                B-229
Na. Sun Boring Ind., Co.            5-230         Kwangju          85   85   81  85                                                     1          68    93
Sam II Ind. Co., Ltd.              1-231          Prepaid
Woo Shin Ind. Co., Ltd.             8-232         Zyunggi          8S   90   85  90                                                     4         147   175
Yu liha Sizing Ind. Co.             B-233         Prepaid.
Je I1 mulsan Co.                    B-234
f9§ptgJLapi.jtg £Qo-              1-235           Seoul           80   10   80  U2                                                      1          23    93
Seung Pan Knitting Co.              B-236          repaitd
Dba  Kwuans Susan Co.               8-237 .
I1 Young Corp.                     B-238                                                                                                                                     I
__ ___                              _,_,__                                                                      _ ..-.-_._ _.... _ .. , _ - I
_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  -. .--



9g    financial aod economic indicators of subpro)acts
f_ianc ed une_ir Loa   2144-to                                                                           _ 
export as Direet      Estimated    Estimated                  -
Sub-                       Capcity utilizaion  rt (V millin)       I of       imports    employment   value added 
Subproject               project      Location                                                 c l     o Esci3  ctual  o  af roy-    ira t  et     EB      -
let 2nd  IlC 2nd  let 2nd  Let 2nd    lst 2d  let  2nd    bajis            Yr.   y.
yr. vr.  vr. vr. yr. Yr.  vr. yr.    y -         yvr.  yr.                   milion)
Ran geoung Printing               3-239        Prepaid
Shin Sung led. Co.               1-240         Seoul           80   85   80  8S                                                  2         9?   149                 .
Sea Sbn food Co.                 B-241         Prepaid
Sam Riyup Tape Co.               B-242
Duck Woo Chemicat Co.             8-243
Nam Young Co.                     0-246
Seo Spun Gak Co.                  B-247
Toog 11 Heavy Mach Co., Ltd.    s-248
Ban Ruk ti~ocla Co., Ltd.         B-249
Yeua Color Devel. Co.             8-250        Seoul           70   70   75  75                                                              2    52
laat 11 Nemo Co.                  B-251        Choon8no        70   70   73  75                                                  3         137   193
Sea Rae Lever Co., Ltd.           B-252        Kyunggi         85   85   83  85                                                 60        213   824
San Cheun Ri Class Co.           B-253         Prepaid
Sam Hong Heavy Equip. Co.        B-254
Dae Ran Export Packing Co.        3-255          a.
Dee Lim Co.                       B-256        Seoul           85   85   85  88                                                  5        216   304
Rainbow Q.S. Co.                  B-257        Prepaid
Dae Sung Chemsial Ind. Co.        B-258        Seoul           80   85   80  8S                                                 18          90   157
Seung San gnitting               B-259         Prepaid                                                                                                      ;       -
fee Nun so Co.                    B-260        Seoul           75   75   75  80                                                  2          88   129
Seo )yun Heavy Equip.             B-261        Pusan           85   90   85  90                                                  5         60   143                 -
Doug-A Color Devel. Co.           B-263
Soc Jong Ind. Co.                0-264         Kyunggi         75   75   75  80                                                  5         176  -246
Nyung Sung Wooden Co.             B-265        Preaid 
-  .;
. _ _ _  "_   _,    *                                                                                         _- --_            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



g9.1 Finnacial and economic indicators of subprojecca
financed under Loan  2144- 
Export as Direct     Estimated    Estimated
Sub-                      Cpajaity UtiUizatiao Expot (w millio)    2 of      itaports   employment   value added
Subproject               project      Location      Estizete  ,cti    Estima    Actual      Tol       o rrl,  iot n                         FRA st  _
1st 2nd  Ist 2nd  lat 2ntd  lt 2nd    1st 2nd  let  2nd    batis          yr.   yr.
Vr. yr. yr. yr. Xr. yr.  Yr. Yr.    yr yr   yr.  r.                      (U million)-
Dong Bang Printing Co.             3-267        Prepaid
Chin Chin tKul San Co.             B-268
Dong Shin Photo Co.                B-269         Kyunggi        90   90    88  88                                                3          26   42
Iyub Woo Corp.                     5-271         Seoul          85   90   85  88                                                 -         137   156
Nong won Moon wha Sa               B-272         Prepaid
Seoul Video Product Co             B-273
8uli lad. Co.                      B-274
Shin Ban Co.                       B-275
Ran bo  o., Ltd.                   3-276         Kyugna         85   S5  85  85                                                   7        189   229
Dong Shin  Printing Co.            B-277         Prepaid
Sea Ban Photo Co.                  B-278                                                                                                                         0 
Sam Young Co., Ind.                B-279           nI
Ryang Shin Chemical Co.            B-280
Kyung Shin Chemical Co., Ltd.      3-281
Woo Lim Machinery Co.              8-282
Chung-Lim Color Co.                B-283
Sam Young Co.                      B-284
Yoo-Lim Printing Co.               B-285
Chua4 Roa  Class Co., Ltd.         8-286
Bong Ree Heavy Equip. Co.          B-287         Seoul           90   90   87  90                                                 1          53    75
World Photo Co., Ltd.              B-288         Prepaid                                                                                                            -I
Jaeil Printing Co.                 B-289                    n                                                     .
Dao %ln  Paper m"PC. Co.           B-290
Tae Young Textile Co.              B-291         Seoul           85   90   85  90                                                 8         124   132
Se Jin Co.                         B-292         Seoul           90   95   90  90                                                 1          18    20
' 9,,   ,   ,                                                                                           t so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



9-1  Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan   2144-K-
Co-t  tlzto Lv    (V milin          Export Ss Direct      Estimated    Estimated
Sub-                       _________(ti _____________________ I2 of          iwports    employment   value added
Subproject              projeet                     Estimte  Acom      stian   Actual       Total    of row      on         t        tR                  -
NO.    ~ Location        stt   At          E*"eSlg..    m*r.vaLJiL incremental -lot  2nd-
Ist 2nd  1st 2nd  1st 2nd  let 2nd    ist 2nd  lst  2ad    bagis          y     yr.
__vr. v. vr  vr.  vr. vr.  vr. yr.  y. rr.  vr.                          (v m:ilion)
Tae Jin Enterprise Co.           -8293          Seoul          85  90   85  90                                                  6       443   443
Sam amn Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-294         Prepaid
Reung Kuk Heavy Equip. Co.        B-295
Min Nyang Shik Surgery            B-296         Incheon        85  90   86  91                                                  2        105   158
HVa Sung Heavy Equip. Co.         B-297        Seoul           90  90   88  90                                                  2         25    28
Ran Young Hosiery  Co.            B-298        Prepaid
Union Printing Co.                B-299         Seoul          75  75   80  80                                                  7         62    89
Dae Ran  Constr. M/C Co., Ltd.   B-300         Prepaid
Sharing 1*d. Co.                  B-301
Huam Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       8-303
Korea Electronics Prontion Co.  B-304           Seoul          85  90   85  90                                                 10        187   277               '
Deeryuk Heavy 4quip. Co.          B-305        Prepaid
Uyup Jin Heavy Equip. Co.         5-306
Dae 11 Shinsun Co.                B-307
Do T1 Ind. Co., Ltd.              B-308
Won Dang Printing Co.             B-309
Cho I1 Co.                        B-310
Sam Sung Color Co..        B       -311
Dae Jin metal Co.                 B-312
Kwa Chun Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd. B-313
Yuahin Color Co.                  B-315
K  rwe  Ak Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   B-316         '
Bong Rae Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-31?         Kyunggi         90  sO   87  90                                                  4         78   108
Bwa Sung Industry Co., Ltd.       B-318         Prepaid
Saon nung Textile Co.             B-319
o -



9-1  Financial and economic indicators of aubprojects
financed under Loan  2144-X0
Capacity UtilztKion Enxrt (t million)    Export as Direct     Estimated    Estuiated
Sub-                                  (2)                           2 of      imports    euploynent   value added                -
Suproject                project                               TMotal                                   of ragw    on                         FRR  ERR
Location      Estimate  Actual   Estntn   Actual      Tota       °tfrxiajls  incremental  let   2nd
lst 2nd  Ist 2nd  Is: 2nd  Ist 2nd    Ist 2nd  lst  2nd    basis           yr.   yr.                 -
yr. yr.  yr. yr.  vr. vr.  yr. yr.    y-  yP r.  yr.                      (Y millon)                 _;
Hoa Color Co.               .        8-320        Prepaid
Dse Ryuk Heavy Equip Co., Ltd.       B-321
Jcong Color Co.                      B-322
Myungdong Contact Lense Co.          B-323        Seoul           90  90   90  90                                                   -        43    50
Shin Jin Tire Co.                    B-324        Sncheon         80  82   80  85                                                   4       217   243
Sam Yang Heavy Equip. Mach. Co.      B-325        Seoul           92  92   90  95                                                   4        9    180   20.4  48.2
Rva Sung Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.      3-326        Prepaid
Lees Color Co.                       5-327
Nev Moon Wha Color Co.               B-328
S1 Kwang Ind. Co.                    B-329                                                                                                                          0
Te tul Heavy Equip. Mach. Co., Ltd. B-330         Seoul           85  85   65  90                                                   1        212   227   23.5  33.8
Xang's Color Co.                     B-331        Prepaid
Banil Kooloan Co.                    0-332
Sang Pyeong Trading Co.              B-333        Seoul           80  80   80  80                                                   4         63   118
Dnng Bang Color Co.                  B-334        Prepaid
Dong-A Printing Co.                  B-335        Ryungnsm        60  60   70  ;0                                                   2         80   112                _.
Wha Jin Heavy Equip- Co., Ltd.       B-337        Chungbuk        90  90   85  90                                                   2        132   214
Song Rae Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-338          Preaid
Sva Chun Reavy gquip. Co., Ltd.    B-339          Seoul           80  80   80  83                                                   4         72   136
Sang Shin Book Died Co.              B-S41        Seoul           75  75   75  78                                                   -        118   127
_ __ ___                                         ___                                                    ,4 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              .,o



Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan 2215-31o
Copcity Utilizaticn Ewort (W Uili)       Ex portas Direct      Estimated    Estimated
Sub-                                  (2                                of     iw.ports    employment   value added-
Subproj"t  project                                                   *Cal    ~~~~~~~~~~~~of raw  an                   FR EnR
Subproject                project                     Ectu               Estctua~No.Location                         incremntal  1st   2nd
1st 2nd  let 2nd  lst 2nd  1st 2nd    1st 2nd  1st  2nd        bakis        yr.   yr.
yr. yr.  yr. yr.  yr. yr.  yr. yr.    vn y-   vr.  vr.                     (V million)
Eul Yoo Ind. Co.                 A-001        Prepaid
Dae Kyumg Ind. Co.               A-002
Je I1 Precision Ind. Co.         8-001
Moo Rim Wire Cutting Co.         B-003        Seoul          70   80   70  80                                                    5         15    108  22.0  33.6
Dea Yang Electronics Co.         8-004        Incheon        80   78   80  80                                                    3         45      71  23.7  31.3
Sae Won Trans Ind. Co., Ltd.   8-005          Seoul          80   80   80  80                                                    5         77    211  23.4  34.8
Kem Precision Co.                8-006        Prepaid
Yong min Co.                     B-007        Seoul               90   85  90                                                    3         30     69
Se Jon8 Electronics Co.          B-008        Prepaid
Won Jin Machinery Co.            8-009
Kook Je Mold & Dies Co.          3-010                                                                                                                              Co
Ran Jin Sang Sa                  3-O1.
Dae Yang Precision               B-012
Yee Hwa Machinery Co., Ltd.    B-013
Bo Sung Munhwa Co.               B-014
Min Young Printing Co.           B-015        Seoul          70   70   70  70                                                    4         54    129
Seoul Pair Glass Co.             8-016        Prepaid
Kem Precision Co.                B-017
Korea Pilot Electronics Co.    B-018          Seoul          83   85   85  85                                                    1        190    ISO
8wa Seong Ind. Co.               B-0 a        Kyunggi        80   80   eo  80                                                    4        180    214
Saibit Ind. Co.                  B-020        Prepaid
-m__myyund_e Printing Co..        3-021        Pusan          90   95   90; 90            _        __          _      _                     88    172
Tae 1tan Heavy Equip.            B B-022      Prepaid
Keo San Ad. Prod. Co., Ltd.   *B-024            n
Weol Sung Ind. Co.               B-025        Chungnas       85   85   85  85                                                    7        110    143
'0



9-2  Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan 2215-3K0
Sb.  city Utilizatic Export (t million)   Export as Direct      Estimated    Estimated
Sub.                       Cepit Utlztc  xot(  ilXn                     of       imports    employment   value added-
~~~~(Z) ~~~Total                         of row      on                          FMR  ERR
Subproject                project                      Estimate  Actual   Estuito   Actual      T          "r A1^   incremental   st   2nd
NO.  ~    Location       _____ _____ __r__ _____ _incremental___ ___st_____
1ot 2nd  Ist 2nd  lst 2nd  1st 2nd    1st 2nd  lst  2nd         bsbis        yr.   yr.-
yr. yr.  Yr. VT.  Yr. vr.  vr. VT.        . y-   vr.  vr.                   (  million)
Nam San Co.                        B-026        Seoul          75   80   75  80                                                      2       125    134
Jung Woo Construction              B-027        Seoul          75   75   75  80                                                      1       560    586
Chung Nam Heavy Equip. Co.         B-028        Chungnam       85   90   85  85                                                      2         32     38
Tee Yang Textile Co.               B-029        Prepaid
Dong Bang Medical                  B-030        Chuagnam       S0   80   80  80  914 1,552 900 1,580 55 55                          10       534    919
Jung Yea Sa Co.                    B-031        Seoul          80   80   80  80                                                      2         50     76
So Kvang Inc.                      B-032        Prepaid
Han Jin Die Casting Co.            B-033
Dae 11 Precision Co.               B-034        Seoul          80   80   80  80                                                     12       250    486
Frankel lad. Co.                   B-035        Prepaid
Juk Chon Ind. Co.                  B-036           "                                                                                                                    I !
Sung Soo Sa Co.                    B-037           "'
Jung MoOn Sa Co.                   B-038
Kwa Chun Heavy Equip. Co.          B-039        Kyunggi        90  100   90  95                                                      1         48    195
Korea  K Spas Co., Ltd.            B-040        Prepaid
Du Seong Optical                   B-041
Dai Tong Co.                       B-042         Seoul          95  140   90 130                                                     2         80     98
Korea Pilot Electronics            B-043         Seoul          85   85   85  85 1,379 1,791 1,270 1,870 60 60                       5        815  1,199  25.3  43.0
Korea Ho An Ind. Co.               B-044         Prepaid
HVa Seong Plastic Co.              B-045        Kyunggi         90   95   90  90                                                     5         40  - 42
Kyung Shin  Chem. Ind. Co.         B-046         Prepa?d
Ova Sung Ind. Co.                  B-047
Sa- Ick Electronics Ind. Co.    B-048
Nam Yang Ink Chem. Ind.            p-049         Kyunggi        50   70   60  75                                                     5        260    74d8
Y. C-1 Tool Process Co.            B-050         Prepaid



9-2 Financial and economic indieators of suabprojects
financed under Loan 2215-3E0
cpiyUil**ai' ELwr  (1 tmillion)      Eotas Direct           Estimated    Estimated
sub-                       CICY2 of                                              imports    employment   value added
Subproject                project                      Estivae.  AcbtAl    Estimat   Actual     Total      of tow      on                          FRI Enk
tic          Location                                                 t1*.      ta%JrRJ  incremental  -let   2nd
Ist 2nd  lot 2ad  let 2nd  Ist 2nd    Ist 2nd  let  2nd    'basis             r    y.
y'r. Yr.  Yr. IT.  Tr. Yr.  vr. vr.    1w         Y.  Vr_                    Vmlin
bong Ban$ Color Process Co.           B-051        Prepaid
Sin  Sung Ind. Co.                    5-052
gun Iang ihotograph Studio            3-053        KymUgnam       60   60   70  75                                                     4         83    158
Du Won Precision Co.                  3-54         Seoul          85   95   85  90                                                     2         70    104
Ranil )oolsan Co.                     3-056        Seoul          85   85   85  85                                                     2         75-   192
ilva Soong Plastic Co.                5-057        lynUggi        90   95   90  90                                                     4         290   396
Sei Chang Frosting Ind. Co.           8-058        Prepaid
Kyong Jim Textile Co.                 3-059
Sung So Heavy Equip. Co.              B-060
Sung Woo Ind. Co.                     8-061        Seoul          75   80   75  so                                                     6         50      53
Kyung Sung Precision Co.              8-062        Prepaid
Tae Young hloonuba Prinkting Co.      3-063        Seoul          83   85   83  85                                        4.    ~      4         70    230
Youing Jim  sea"y Equip. Co.          3-64         Seoul          85   85   85  85                                                      1       130    179
Shin  suang wire Cutting Co.          8-065        Pt@9Qid
Shinm Sung Embroidry Co.              3-067        Seoul          85   90   85  85                                                      2       160c   203
Ksa  Chun Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    5-068          Prepaid
Shin Ityu  Constr. Co., Ltd.          3..069       Kyungh         80   80   80  80                                                     10       '480    536
Ando, Enterprise Co., Ltd.            3-071        Kyunggi        s0   80   80  s0                                                      5        40    119
Sam Boo Production Co., Ltd.          3-072        Seoul          a 85,8  85  85                                                        3       220    229
San Young Co.                         3-073        Seoul          80   80   8o  80                                                      5        55      85
Kyong Jun Textile Co.                 B-074        Prepaid
See lynk Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    3-075
Woo 11 Ind. Co.                       3-077
Shin Jung Nylon Co.                   B-078



9-2   Fio neial sad economic indic..ors of subproJeccts
,   finarced under 3_san 2215-30     _
Capsity Utilizaticn Eqort ( 3miliacn)     Exports  Direct        Estimated    tsti ated
Sub-                         __ _                                     1 of       imports    employment   value added                  8
Subproject                project       Location       Estiinte   Acrn   Eatibe t Actual       Total                                1st   2nd r   
NO.                                                  Q~~~~~~~~.1.*  --ol   incremental  .s       a
Ist 2nd  Ist 2nd  1st 2nd  1st 2nd    lst 2nd  Ist  2nd         basis        yr    yr
Yr. Yr.  vr. yr.  yr. yr.  2r. yr.                 VT.  yr,                  U million,                 a
Dong S1 Embroidery Co.       ,        8-080        Prepaid
Surabul Record Co.                    B-081        Ryungg'         70   70   70  75                                                     1        360    366                 1
San Jie Corp.                         B-082        1youggi        85   90   85  90                                                      1        210    239
Misung Plastic Co.                    8-083        Prepaid
Kong CGc clove Co.                    B-084
No Chun Ind. Co.                      B-086        lncheon         70   75   75  80                                                    18        610  1,821
Shin Rao Printing Co.                 3-087        Seoul          65   65   70  70                                                      1        110    297
Kum Soo Precision Co.                 B-088        Prepaid
Cho Evang Class Co.                   B-089
A-Sung Corp.                          B-090        Seoul          90  100   90  95                                                      2         30     59
Ab Sung Heavy Mach. Co., Ltd.         B-091        Kyunggi        90   90   90  90                                                      2         95    178
Ryundai Special Rubber Ind. Co.    B-092           Prepaid
Shin 11 Class Co.                     B-093        tyungti        80   80   80  80                                                     40       230    419
Heung II lad, Co., Ltd.               B-094        Kyungi         80   80   80  80                                                      1       950  1,345
Star  5orld Co.                       B-096        Prepaid
RWa Sung Co.                          B-09t        Seoul          80   80   80  80                                                      2         75     82
Saesam ld. Co.                       8-098        Seoul          75   80   75  80                                                     10        40    125
Ryundai Integrated.                   B-099        Seoul          80   80   80  80                                                      5       230    466
Ssi23ew  Ind.                         B-100        Prepaid
HVa Sung Equip.                       B-101        Eyuntgi        85   90   85  85                                                      1        50    102                  -
Dae Kyung Ind.                        B-102        Prepaid
Doe Joo Fine Cbem. Co.                8-103          n                                                                                                              .
Kyung ln Ceresics Co.                 B-104   -     yunggi        95   95   90  90  301  489  200 400   75 85                          20       180    301
Jumbo Enterprise                     .B-107        Prepaid
Chun Kong glectronic. Co.             B-108        Seoul          80   80   8c  80                                                      3        25      98
+ * St --



9-2  Financial and economic indicators of subprojects
financed under Loan    2215-3KO
Capacity Utilization Eport (V million)    Export as Direct       Estimated    Entimaded
Sub-                         ___         ___          __( )                of    imports    employment   volue added
Subproject                project      Location          stit       al   Estitate   Actual      Tot l         A        neental    t   2nd          FR ER
1st 2nd  Ist 2nd  Ist 2nd  1st 2nd    1st 2nd  1st  2nd    basis             Y.   yr.
vr. vr.  yr.  yr.  vr. yr.  yr. yr.    y        r  vr.  vr.                 ( million)
Kyung Sung Precision Co.  B-109           Prepaid
Shin Saeng Precision Co.  B-110             n
Oh Sung Boring Co.          B-Ill         Pusan          80   80   80  80                                                     3         34     45
Tae Kvang Electronic Co.  B-112           Prepaid
Cheong Woo lnd.             8-113         Seoul          75   75   75  80                                                    10        350    406
i j
. ha
. ...  _._  . .. _,4_  .  _.- .  -*                                             _                                                                                  a



Current Status of Subprojects linanced uAder Loan 2144-KO
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit. million Von)
Sub-            fCN   Pinancing                 Amount outstanding                Resche-                     Arrears               _.
Subproject                  Pr;ject    I B R D   MB         Total   I B R D  Resources                          (eota  pepay t r) d olfft   Less than 3-6  over 6
No.                 ResourcesReore                                                  Ya) fs  3 months  months  months Toa
Sam MmEeavy Haehinery                A-001      Repaid
Han Jin leavy Equipmaent Co.         A-002      Prepaid
Choong Book Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd. A-003
Sam bEang Constr. Machinery Co.    A-004
Ruam Heavy Equipment Co., Ltd.       4-005        74                  74        55                  SS                                    12                        12
Sam NMa  Development Co.             A-006      Prepaid
tan Chbng lndustrial Co.             A-007
Shin Sung Tndustrial Co.             A-008
gtan eavy Equipment Co., Ltd.        A-009
Dae Jong Leavy Equip_met.            A-010       365                 365       421                421                                     31                       31
Oee Jin Textile Co., Ltd.            A-011      Prepaid                                                                                                                  ,
Ewa JiD  eavy Equip. Co., Ltt.       A-012
Sung Bo Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       A-013
D.e Seavy tacIt. Co., Ltd.           A-014
Jung Sock Constr. Co., Ltd.          A-01F       452        30       482       535       6         541                                    63                       63
Sam Lip Printing Co.                 A-016      Prepaid
Shin Kwar^S ItD Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd 4-001     Repaid
Jeon  am Beavy Equipmet              B-002      Prepeid
Bea Chul Clinic                      B-003
aux Heavy Equipmeat                  3-004       185                 185       152                 152                                    22                       22
Moon Bwa Color Co.                   B-005      Prepaid
5.- a4o-0  -C~~ -- ----O,--"--- ~-                                               --           -                     1-_
Dong In Textile Co.                  B-010
Suncbunhyang Clinic                  B-Oil        28       10         38        25       2         27
Sin An sajin Jepa Co.                3-012      Prepaid



10-1  Current Status of Subprojects 3inanced under Logn  2144-KO
(lA of Dec. 1987)                                                                               1
(Unit: million Won)        _
-    Sub-          CNB  Financing                   Amount outstanding                   Rescars                                                -
Subproject                     Project      t   R D   e o         Total   I B R 0       Cho        Total    Prep(yYeet adl r) oWrfi   Loe  that 3-6           over 6           4
Subproject             3~         ~~o,        ResourcesRsucs(ea)of                                                                                                oa
3 months  montbs  months
SamJin Co.                       "   3-013           38        5           63        53                    53                                       14                 25       39
Fi Do Co.                             B-014          58                    58         71                   71                                       14                 43       57
use Seo Co.                           B-015          59                   59         53                    53                                      - 7                           7
J"  Il Co.                            B-016          59                   59          70                   70                                       13                 43       56
gvWn Dong Co.                         B-017          64                   64         82                    82                                        8                 26       34
De Yang Co.                           3-018          63                   63         83                    83                                        8                 26       34    ,|
Nu Dons Co.                           3-019          SO                   50          60                   60                                        5                  9       14    _
Eva Sung Co.                          B-020          59                   59          61                   61                                        8                  7       1S
Hva Weon Co.                          3-021          51                   51          61                   61                                        5                 10       15
Dae 11 Constr. Co.                    3-022        Prepaid
Bau Sung Decvy machinery Co.          B-023          n                                                                                                                                I
Shin Heung Reavy Equip. Co.           3-024         202                  202        116                   116                                       37                          37
Msnbo Co.                             1-025          59                    39         76                   76                                        6                  8        14
Mi Seong Co.                          B-026        Prepaid
Byun Shan Co.                         3-027          n-
Dae  #eon Co.                         B-028          59        25          84         76                   76                                        5                  9       14   -_
To Jun Heavy Equip. Mach. Co.         3-029          67                    67         39                   39
Dang Sa Co.                           3-030          63                    65         85                   85                                        5                  4        9
guna Co.                              3-031          58                    58         61                   61                                       10                  18      28
Saemil Constr. Machinery Co.          L-033         139                   139        1:8                  128                                       24                 23       47    _
Zak G   Co.                           B-034          64                    64         66                   66                                       11                  30      41.-
ShinaXae.._Y&r4Lonatr._Co.,. LU,. __B-035           144                   144        118                  118                                       12                          12  .1
Uh  seong Co.            -            B-036          59                    59         62                   62                                       11                  27      38   -
Woo Shin Industry Co., Ltd.           B-037.          79        55        134         73        7          80
Korea X-Rays Clinic                   B-038        Prepaid                                                                                                                      .     i
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,,  ,- ,,. ,
-__   s                                                       .                     t---               _                                 o £~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--



10-1 Curreat Status of Subprojects Finaneed under Loan 2144-KO
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: million Van)
Sub.           Cii Financing                  Amount outstanding                 Resche-                     Arrears
Subproject               Pr!ject I B R D                                                                                 s-CB  Total   r  B   R D   Totrep  dalear)  ose ba  3-6  over 6
No    Z B ii 0  RotourceB                   Resour        ots l(Y'ear)  offs$                    eca  36          oe     Total.
Resources  fteso~~~~~~arces ~3 months  months  woutbs
Weon Co.                       B-039         51                  51         56                  56                                     5                 5       10
Doung Ah Co.                   B-040       Prepaid
Jeons S ok Beawy Bquip=*nt    B-041
Soo Do bevy Equipenac          B-042         31        20        51        1S                 1i
Veaupori Co.                   B-0           60                  60        43                  43                                     10                         10
Da  Seog Co.                   B-044         64                  64        47                  47                                     11                         11
Dae Lia Co.                    3-045         59                  S9        74                  74                                     11                39      50
Doag Shia Co.                  B-046         59                  59        34                  34
Tae Chg Co.                    3-047         51                            38                  38                                      9                 2       11
bse Sung Co.                   B-049         60                  60        69                  69                                     10                25       35
Do"g YTag Co.                  3-030       Prepaid
Dado Co.                       3-051         52                  52        46                  46                                      9                 8       17
Pyumg Sock Co.                 B-052         52                  52        53                  53                                      9                1S      24
Doaug i Co.                    B-053         54                  54        30                  30
Kai Seeng Co.                  B-054         51                  51         38                 38                                      9                          9
Hasn le Foods Co.              B-055       Prepaid
Doe-A Load Vire Co., Ltd.      B-056         91                  91        70                  70
Tom$ Swan8 Co.                 3-057         24                  24         14                 14
Dae Cang Co.                   3-059         49                  49        52                  52                                      9                23   -- 32
Ho Nabh uto Iad., Co.          3-060         58                  58         15                  15
1 DMu"g Co.                    B-061       Prepaid
,-|2n________          _______Co__ _ _           B-02._ ,                                            _   _ _   _ __ _                      _ _   __ __ __
Sam  Jia Co.                   3-063         49                  49        59                  59                                      a                14      22
sang Gong Co.                  R-06         63                  63        73                  73                                     11                37      48
man Tang Co.                   3-065       Prepaid
_  -
_, .                                                                                         £~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



10-1 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2144-KO
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Million Won)
Sub-             CNB  Financing                 Amount outstanding                 Resche-                     An ears
Subproject      Plroject    I B R D   CNB                  Total   I B R D      CMI       Ttal    Prepayment  dule   Writ.e  Le-   s thtn 3nt    ovr6 Tal
No'.RsucsRsucs(er of   3 months  months  months
Sam Rae Foods Co., Ltd.       '    B -066       54                  54        32                  32
Dal Sung Co.                       B-067       100        40       140        91        9        100                                     17                16      33
Uri Color Co.                      B-068        31        10        41        24                  24
Kyung Ro Embroidery Co.            B-069        24        10        34         6                   6
Do Xwans Construction Co., Ltd.  B-070          34                  34         9                   9
Ran Kook Sang Gong Sa              B-071        34                  34         9                   9
Dae Ban Road Line Paint Co., Ltd. B-072         34                  34          9                   9
Seong Jang Co.                     B-073        61        10        71        83                  83                                      6                20      26
Ka Ma Co.                          3-074      Prepaid
Shin An Co.                        B-075        53        10        63        74                  74                                      5                20       25
Ran Kook Geological Co., Ltd.      B-076        53        35        88         13       12         25
Kyu=g Jin Co.                      B-077       118        10       128        155                 15S                                    19                48       67   >
Man Poong Co.                      B-078        50                  50        46                   46                                     9                17       26
Dae Cheon Co.                      t-079      Prepaid
Chun In Co.                        B-080        57        20        77         78                  78                                      6               19       25
Jeon Nam Co.                       B-081      Prepaid
Chil Sung Co.                       B-082       57                  57         85                  80                                    10                36       46
rk Cum Co.                         B-083        63                  63         74                 74                                     12                36      48
Sam Yang Construction Co.          B-084        30        20        50         23                  23
Chung Ju Chea  Ind. Co.            B-085        29                  29         27                  27                                     4                          4
Sang Shin Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd. B-087         142                 142         70                  70                                    34                         34 .
Ku -,i,Noag_.Co.   ,                B-088       63                  63"        74                  74                  ,2                                  36    48
Shin  Kwang Co.                    B-089       864        25        d9         89                  89                                      7               21       28   -
Tae Won Co.                         g-o0o     Prepaid
Bae Won Co.                         B-091                                                                                                                            (8
_ __ . .. _ _ ... . _ ...    _  ._ ...    ,                           _,   _                                        _      _ o~ I4



10-1 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2144-0
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Million Won)
Sub-             CNB  Financing                  Amount outstanding                 Rcs he                       Arrears
Subproject               Project    I B R D  Rreparmen   duotal   I B R D                                        bce    Total    Pt e  r) e- Less thau 36t    over
N4o                  Resources                     Resources    otL(Year)  of fa    esta  36                             Oe       Total.
3 montha months Uontha~
Da Bi Co.                    n   B-092        Prepaid
Sung Buk Food Co.                 1-093         65       20         85        85                   85                                      7                 17      24
Dae Kok Co.                       B-094       Prepaid
Sam Hae Co.                       B-095         63                  63         75                                                         12                 37      49
Sam Yang Foods Co.                B-097       Prepaid
Shin  Seoag Steel Co., Ltd.       B-098         t
Gvang t1 Co.                      B-099         63                  63         16                  16
Hwasung Ind. Co.                  B-100       Prepaid
Man Ro Co.                        B-101         42        5         47         55                  55                                      9                 25      34
Won tl Machinery Ind. Cc.         B-102       Prepaid
Young Dong Color Devel. Co.       B-103
Daevoo Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-104 
Dae Yang Co.                      B-105         n 
Dae Deok Roarital                 B-1C6
Mi Rwang Color Devel. Co.         B-109
One Colcr Devel. Co.              B-lll
Dong Bang Medical Business Co. B-112
Hyundai Civil Eng. & Comst. Co. P-113           28                  28         13                  13
Bwa Sung Trading Co.              B-114       Prepaid
Shin Bva Construction Co.         8-115
Chong Eatap Heavy Equip.          B-116         36                  36         26                  26
Soo Do Reaey Equip._  B-117                 .e
Jeong Seok Heavy Equip. Co        B-118         n
Dotng Sung Heavy Equip.           B-119        72                  72         4                   49                                      15                        15i
Shin Wood lnd. Co.                B-120       Prepaid
.,                                                                                                                           c cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



10-1 Current Status ot Subprojects Financed under Loan 2144-R0
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Killion Von)
Sub.             Cos  Financing                 Amount outstanding                Resche-                     Arrears
Subprojectojet                             CMI                            CU)                Prepayment  dube   Write-
SPoject    I B R D  Resources  Total   I 3 R D  Resources  (TTs(ar) ofifs   Less than 3-6    over 6   Total
NO.                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 months  months  wmoths
Duck Sung Heavy Equip.           .  B-123        109                 109        75                  75                                    24                       24
Chong Bv-p Reevy Equip. C.-         B-124         46                 46         22                 22
Dae Lis Chemical Ind. Co.           B-125         46                 46         22                 22
ung Jin Beavy Equip.                B-127       Prepaid
doo Civil £ngineering Co., Ltd.    B-128
3u Sung Beavy Machinery Co., Ltd.  B-129
Ze Il Baring Co.                    B-130
Park Seuag-Ro X-Ray Clinic          B-131
Byup Wang Pringting Co.             B-132         77                  77        37                 37
Sam Ho Heavy tachinery              B-133         71                 71         52                 52                                     16                       16
Dae Sung Co.                        B-134       Prepaid
8yun See Embroidery                 B-135         28       10        38         28                 28
Silra Embroidery Co.                B-136         41       16        57         33                 33                                                                   a
tyundai D.?.                        B-138       Prepaid
?oungwon Industrial Co.             B-139
.e Kun Heavy Equip. Mach.           B-140        171                171        82                  82
Sam 'I Constv. Mach.                B-142        188                188        161                161
3eong Won Ind. Co.                  B-143      Prepaid
8aik awa Special Glove MWG.         3-144
2va Sung Co.                        3-145
Shim 8eung Packing Paper            3-147
_Seban Jrinting Co. _-4                            "
Saikhap Fiber Ind. Co.              B-149         18                 18         18                 1S
em Mi. T.ndustry Co.                B-150       Prepaid
Sy* Chang Ind. Co.                  B-151         "      .



10-1 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2144-EO
(As of Dec. 1987)
(unit: million Won)        ,
CNB  Financig                  Amount outstandResc-in                                         Arrears                ,,
Sub-                                                                               Recche-
Subproject                PrQjeCt    S B R DNesources  Total   I a R D                   TeSOC..   Total  r                    Less than 36       over 6   Tota
110. ~   ~     ReoresRsore                                                     (Year)  offs   3 months  months  months
Ban Cook Decal Co., Ltd.          B-132        20        28        48         15                  15
Iyup Wang Printing Co.            B-153         49                 49         36                  36                                     11                        11
Pyung Hva Ind. Co.                B-154      Prepaid
Dokil Bed Co.                     B-155         41       10         51        53                  53
San Sung Printing Co.             B-156         37       10        47         40                  40
Dong Bum Meat Process Co., Ltd. 3-157        Prepaid
Bong Hwang Enterprise             B-159         42                  42        40                  40                                     10                9       19
Tong 11 Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-160         Prepaid
Ryup Sung Enterprise              B-161         39                  39        20                  20
Asia Ind. Co.                     B-162         12       10         22        11                  11
tan Kook Tannin Co., Ltd.         B-164       Prepaid
Young Bak Co.                     B-165
Cbun so Co.                       3-166         26       10         36        27                  27
Shin  Sung Ind. Co.               3-167         27       10         37        29                  29                                      4                         4
Bubeung Id. Co.                   3-168         20                  20        22      -           22
Kum Chang Fiber Co.               B-169       Prepaid
Xyung Reung Ind. Co.              B-170         n
Jeon Buk Hevsy Equip.             5-171         63                  63        68                  68                                     10                        10
Tae Bok Co.                       3-172       Prepaid
Young N1am '.8ding Co.            B-173
Kam Poong Cloves lnd. Co.         3-174         U                      *.
-.-yun Dae-Eftrboidery Co.---B       -176    "                                         ..                                                     -
Woo It Ind. Co.                   B-178                                            ,                             
Sam Hong  eavy Equip. Co., Ltd. B-1"*
Sam Woo Ind. Co.                  B-180
_        .~-t~----                                                            0 ~ --                   -      - -                 .  .  S-                    --            *1



10-1 Current Status of Subprojects liuaneod under Loan   ",,& ".n
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit. MilUion won)
CN8 Finacing                  Amounc outstanding               lese                        Arrears
Sub-       -R__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _                                     _ __e_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
Subproject     Pr                   ~~~CUB                         CU                Prepayment dule   write-
Subproject                  Project    I A R DP            Total   r B R D Rou           Total                               Lose o  otbs   3-4  over 6
ReourcesRsucsYa)of   3 months  mouths months   Total
Fujica Color Co.                   B 8-181     Prepaid
Doug Shin Sobanggi Co.             B-182          32                 32        U                  38
88 Color Devel. Co..               B-183          31                 31        41                 41
Song Rae leavy  ahebinery Co.      B-184          32                 32        24                 24                                    8                        8
Doug 11 Silk Co.                   3-187          15                 15        17                 17
Doug 8ang Printing Co.             B-188          24                 24        31                 31
Tong 11 Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.      3-189      Prepaid
Gang Cyo ng Rat Sa                  B-191
Toun Do Food Ind. Co.               1-192       214        70       284       290       26       316
Gu Rang Foods Co.                   B-194      Prepaid
so-tang Rug. Co.                    8-195
ban Do Co.                         1-196
Woo Jin Construction & En8.         B-198
San Ha" Ueaag Equip. Co., Ltd.      1-19         30                  30        28                 28
Des Jin Blin4er Co.                 1-200        23                  23        21                 21
Ink Jo General Printing Co.         B-201      Prepaid
Hwa Sung lad. Co.                   1-202        h
Dae Wba Foundation led. Co.         B-203       197       47        244       183       19       202
To it Co.                           B-204        32        8        40         30                 30
lyumg Lin Ind. Co.                  B-205      Prepaid
San Do Oils Co., Ltd.               B-206
.u. va-Sizins gAnd. Co.,.  _         1-,207 _
tCuk Sung Reco3position Print Co.  1-208       n    - -_  -.                      -       - -   - -                             .     -  -~ -  -  |-*~~~~** 
tu Sin Ind. Co.                     3-209
Uyun Dai Printing  Co.              3-210        "                                                                                                               o
a, 
_  __   _     _  __  ,,__  _,  ,  _ _,,  _,   _ .  ,_  .  ... ....... . ... ...  _ . . , _ .... _ ._ * ... _ _  _ _ _  ................... _ t-- - --
.  _  .  .  ..  _  . . . . . _ _ .. . . . _ . . _ _ . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



10-1 Current Status of Subprojects Financed unkder Logo 2144-lO
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Million Won)
Sub-        ~~CUB  Financinug                Amount outstandinkg                Roe-Arrears
Subproject                Project    t B RD C              Total   I 3 R D       N         oa       Prepayment  uulC   Vrite-  Ls  than 3-6         over 6
No,.           ~~Resources                   Resources                          (Year)  offt s LgTotal.
3 months  nmoths  months
Oh Jae Dong Surgical Clini.c B. -211          Prepaid
Young Wha Printing Co.            8-212         42        is         5         45                  45
Kum Poong Fiber Co.               B-213          13                  13        17                   17
Jim  Sung Packaging Co.           3-214       Prepaid
Pal Gi Co., Ltd.                  B-215
Chang Sung Fiber Co.              3-216
D&3seong Co.                      B-217
Dong Yang Gloves Co.              B-219         22                   22        25                  25
Ran Kook Livestock Process co. 3-220          Prepaid
Heung 11 Printing Co.             B-221          24        9         33        23                   23
Se* Cab Won X-Ray Clinic          3-223       Prepaid
Kosung printing Co., Ltd.         B-224
Young Nam Co.                     B-225
Dug Sin Metal Co., Ltd.           B-227
HEo Bo Wire Ind. Co., Ltd.        B-228
Sao Won Plastic co.               B-229
Nam Sun Boring Ind., Co.          8-230          29                  29        29                   29
Sam 1 In d. Co., Ltd.             B-231       Prepaid
Woo Shin lInd. Co., Ltd.          3227                                          59
Yu Wha Sizing Ind. Co.            3-233       Pr,cpaid
Jo 11 liulsan Co.                 B-23* 
Youn      gNuvha Co.              B-235        32         10   _ 42           .43       -       ***43      *             *    .6                                            1
Seun$ Him Knitting co.            3-236       Prepaid
Dae twang Iluaan co.              3-237,         i
1l Young Corp.                    3-238          i



10-1 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan   2144-BO
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Million Won)
Subproct  Sub-   CNB  Financing                 Amount outscanding       ees:eb-    Ataears
Subproject              Io          1   R D             Teore    otal   I 8 R D       Teore  otal    PrpXn    ue)WffeLess than 3-6th  mover6
No.                 Resources                    aesources                         (Year)  offs  3 motsmntan s3 montes 6       oa
tan Reoung Printing              B-239       Prepaid
Shin Sung Ind. Co.               B-240         29       15        44        42         1        43                                    4                         4
Sea Ran Food Co.                 5-241       Prepaid
Sam Syup Tape Co.                B-242
Duck Woo Chemical Co.            B-243
NaM Young Co.                    B-246
Seao RSpun Cak Co.               B-247
Tong 11 Heavy Mach Co., Ltd.   B-248
tan Kuk Kiwoola Co., Ltd.        B-249         "
leun Color Devel. Co.            B-250         31                 31        41                  41
tam I1 NOeoo Co.                 B-251         28                 28         39                 39
Sam Rae Laver Co., Ltd.          B-252        116       40       156        146       19       165
Sam Cheun Ri Glass Co.           B-253       Prepaid
Sam Hong Heavy Equip. Co.        B-254         "
Dae Ran Export Packing Co.       B-255         "
Dae Lim Co.                      B-256         33       30        63         38        2        40
Raiabow Q4S. Co.                 B-257       Prepaid
Uae Sung Chemical Ind. Co.       B-258         85       20       105        115                115                                     10               10      20
Seung Han Knitting               B-259       Prepaid
Rees  un Sa Co.                  B-260         34       20        54         42        1        43
Seo Nyun Heavy Equip.            B-261        202                202        304                304                                     37                       37
Swa..Jix..Reavy-Equip-  _   _   B-262 _    Prepaid                                                                                                     __ 
Dong-A Color Devel. Co.          8-263         "
Soo long Ind. Co..               B-264         65                 65        80                  80                                      8
fMyug Sung Wooden Co.            3-265       Prepaid
, * ..  _,, ... _ ._r... r .-^~ '  -~' ''* ' -''~ ~- *-''~ -  - - _  _e4,- . > * e>_>-. 



10-1 Current Status of Subprojecta Financed under Losn  2144-KO
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Million Won)
Sub-             CS8   Financing                Amount outstanding                Resche-         A__e_ rs
Subproject                   Project              C    0Tta            3R0       CliB               Prepayment  dule   write-
No.                 Resources                    Resources   lotal                 (Year)  offis   Less than 3T over 6   lotal
3 months  months  months
Dong Bang Printing Co.             B-267       Prepaid
Chin Chin Mul San Co.              B-268
Dong Shin Photo Cow                B-269         27                 27         32                 32
Ryub Woo Corp.                     B-271        120                 120       132                132
Nong Won Noon Wha Sa               B-272       Prepsid
Seoul Video Product Co             B-273
Buli Ind. Co.                      B-274
Shin Ran Co.                       8-275
Ran Do Co., Ltd.                   B-276         45       70        115        41       30         71
Doug Shin  Printing Co.            B-277       Prepaid
Sea Ran Photo Co.                  B-278         n 
Sam Young Co., Ind.                B-279
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.            B-280         n
KYung Shin Chemical Co., Ltd.      B-281
Woo Lis Machinery Co.              B-282
Chuns-Lim Color Co.                B-283         n
Sam Young Co.                      B-284
Yoo-Lim P?inting Co.               B-285
Cbung Ram Class Co., Ltd.          B-286
Bong Rae leavy Equip. Co.          B-287         29                  29        27                  27
World Photo Co., Ltd.              B-288       Prepaid
JaeiL _rntiq.Co.  _             _ _ -2S-
Doe Wang Paper MFG. Co.            B-290
Tae Young Textile Co.              3-29)         58                  S8        69                  69
Se Jin Co.                         3-292         24         2        26        29                  29                                                              _



10-1 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2144-0
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Million Won)      4
Sub-             CNB  Financing                  Amount outstanding                Resche-                      Arrears
Subproject                 Project        aD   CNB                              CNB      Toa       Prepayment  dule   Write-              3-      oe  6
SubrPo.c       B R D            Totl   I B R D R sResource                           (Year) offs   Less than 3         oar      Total
No.  Resources           Resources                                        ~~~~~~~~~~3 months  months- months
Tac Jin Enterprise Co.            B B-293       37                  37        47                  47
Sam Ban Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.   0-294        Prepaid
Reung Kuk Reavy Equip. Co.        0-295
Min Hyang Shik Surgery            B-296         18                  18         20                  20
Rwa Sung Heavy Equip. Co.         0-297         20                  20         18                  18
Han Young Hosiery  Co.            0-298       Prepaid
Union Printing Co.                0-299         38        20        58        49         3         52                                   4                          4
Da. Han  Constr. M/C Co., Ltd.   B-300        Prepaid
Sharing Ind. Co.                  0-301
Huam Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       B-303
Korea Electronics Promtion Co.   B-304         109        20       129        117        3        120                                                                   1
Daeryuk Heavy Equip. Co.          3-305       Prepaid
Hyup Jin Heavy Equip. Co.         0-306
Dae 11 Shinsun Co.                B-307
Do }1 Ind. Co., Ltd.              B-308
Won Dang Printing Co.              0-309
Cho 11 Co.                         B-310
Sam Sung Color Co..               B-311
Dae Jin Metal Co.                 8-312
Kwa Chun Beavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-313
Yushin Color Co.                   B-315         It
_. . wanX Ak-'deavy..Equip..Co..,-Ltd.   B-316   _   n                       *                                                _                      .                         s
Bong Rae Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.  B-317           65                 65         66                  66                                     12                        12
Ewa Sung Industry Co., Ltd.        3-318      Prepaid
Sam Heung Textile Co.              B-319         n                                                                                                                     t
__.__._  .............. _ _.  .  _.    ___._.--_                                                                                                        ----,. -O S



10-1 Current Status of Suborojects Financed under Loan  2144-10-
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Wnit: Million Won)
Sub-              CNB  Financing                 Amount outgtand ing                 Resche-                      Arrears
Subproject                   Project    I B R D   CNB         Total   I 8 R D      CNB       Total    Prepayment  dule   Wribte  Less thtn e-6 h            6
No'.         DResorceos        l IB     Resources   Toa.(Year)  offs                                                         Tota:lhn 
Moa Color Co.                         B-320      Prepaid
Dae Ryuk Heavy Equip Co., Ltd.        3-321
Jeong Color Co.                       B-322
Myungdong Contact Lense Co.           8-323         14                  14         12                  12
Shin Jin Tire Co.                     B-324         55                  55        58                   58
Sam Yang Reavy Equip. Mach. Co.    B-325           290                 290       239                  239
RHa Sung Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-326         Prepaid
Lees Color Co.                        B-327
New Moon Wha Color Co.                B-328
Xl Twang Ind. Co.                     B-329
To Run Heavy £quip. Mach. Co., Ltd. B-330          42                   42        39                   39                                                                    t
gang's Color Co.                      B-331      Prepaid
Hanil Moolsan Co.                     B-332        * 
Sang Pysong Trading Co.               B-333        34                   34        42                   42                                     4                         4
Do"g Bang Color Co.                   B-334      Prepaid
Dong-A Printing Co.                   B-335        43                  43         46                   46                                     S                          8
Wha Jin feavy Equip. Co., Ltd.        B-337        43                   43        43                   43
Bong Rae Reavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       B-338      Prepaid
Iva Chun Beavy Equip. Co., Ltd.       B-339       113                  113       112                  112                                    20                         20
Sang Shin Book Bind Co.               B-341        47                   47        52                   52
*.l
...  _  .  =  .  ....  .  .  ..  . .  °  1^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'8



Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2215'.3K0
(AS of Dec. 1987)
(unit; Million Won)    -
CUB  Financing                 Amount outstanding                 lec.          .            .Arrears
Sub-                                                                               Re__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ehe__ _ __ _   _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
-          ~~~~Subproject             Projoet    I   1D                 otl I   10                    otl     Prepayment  dule   Write-
Io.a           Resour Ts taesoIrces                                            Tear)c0l. Less than 3-6           over 
tio.  Resources          Resourtes                         (Year)  offs ~~~3 montbs  montb.  mouths Toa
lul Yoo lnd. Co.                A-001        vepaid
ftaty.una lad. Co.              A-002
Je. 11 Precision mLd. Co.       B-001
Moo0 Rim Wits Cutting Co.       B-003         56                  56       59                   s9
Ws. Yang Electronics Co.        3-OOi         52       15         67        70         2        72
Sao Won Trans Ind. Co., Ltd.   B-005          19       7          26       23                   23
Kem Precision Co.                3-006      Prepaid
Tong min Co.                    B-007         59       20         79        72         3        75                                                                    .
so jong Electronics Co.         3-008       Prepaid
Won Jhin Machinery Co.           3-009 
Kook Je Mold 4 Dies Co.          3-010
Ran Jin Sang Se                 B-011
Dee Tang Precision              B-012
'Yee Rwa Machinery Co., Ltd.    3-013         H
Bo Sung Ilunhwe Co.             3-014 
Mina Young Printing Co.         3-015         4444                         43                   43
Seoul Pair Class Co.            B-016       Prepeid
Kem Precision Co.               B-017
Korea Pilot Electronics Co.    1-018         169                 169      205                  205
RV& Seong Ind. Co.              3-039        134                 134      I"414
Saibit lad. Co.                 3-020       Prepaid
Hymdae. Brintiug_Q~~~~~~~~~_ -_ .-B-07.1-    -.-46.-   47~~~~~~~~
Tee Zan Heavy Equip.            B-022       Prepaid
Koo San Ad. Prod. Co., Ltd.    3-024 
Wool. Sung IPA. Co.             B-025         32                  32       27                   27



10-2 Current Status of Subprojects Finacead under Loan 2215-3K0
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Wait% Billion von)
Sub-         _   CUB  Financing                  Ahount outstandins                 Rescbe-                      Arrears
Subproject                Project               CUB                             CNBta    I3 t0  o~1 Prepsymt  dule   Writs    .a  ta   -6          oe 
NO.        I B R Daesources  Total   I B R D  Resources   T(tal                        Year)  offs   Less than 3-6       over 6   Total
War San Co.                       B-026         58                   58        35                   35
Jung Moo Construction             3-027         37                   37       37                    37
Chumg Nam loamy bquip. Co.        3-028         24                   24       23                    23
TSe  Yang Textile Co.             B-029       Prepaid
Dong Bang Medical                 B-030        102        80        182      108         27        135
Jung Yea Sa Co.                   B-031         21        10         31       20          3         23
Seo twang Inc.                    B-032       prepaid
Ran Jin Die Casting Co.           B-033       Prepaid
Dae I1 Precision Co.              3-034        117                  117      124                  124
Frankel tnd. Co.                  B-035       Prepaid
3uk Chon lad. Co.                 B-036
Sung Soo Ss Co.                   3-037
Jung Noon Ss Co.                  B-038
lvy  Chun beavy Equip. Co.        B-039         41                  41        49                   49
Korea K Span Co., Lcd.            B-040       Prepaid
Du Seong Optical                  B-041
Dai Tong Co.                      B-042         20        10        30        22          4        26
Korea Pilot Electronics           3-043        326       175       501       371        110       481
Lorea lo Aft I kl. Co.            8-044       Prepaid
Rua Seong Pla *ic Co.             3-043        lOt                 101        96                   96
Ryung Shin  Chen. Ird. Co.        B-046       Prepaid
=H,w4S3ung,Indb.C   _               B-047
Sar Ick Electronics In4. Co.    B-048
War tang Ink Chem. Ind.           B-049         18        46        64        21         18        39
t. ¢-1 Tool Process Co.           B-050       Prepaid



10-2 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2215-3K0
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: Million Won)
Sub-             CNB  Financin8                  Amount outstanding                  Rescha-                     Arrears
Subproject                 Project    I B RD CNB            Total   I B 1 D  Resources    oal    Prepsyment  (Year)  rite  Less than 3-6            over 6
so.                  Resources                     Reouce(ear   if$ 3mnbs  tmonths  months   Total
Doug Dang Color Process Co.          B-051       Prepaid
Sin  Sung Ind. Co.                   B-052
Nun Hang Pbotograph'Studio           8-053         56                   56       55                   55
Du Won Precision Co.                 B-054         68                   68       67                   67
Hanil Moolsan Co.                    B-056         39                   39       44                   44
HW. ScanS Plastic Co.                B-057        162                 162       161                  161
Sei Chang Freezing Ind. Co.          B-058       Prepaid
Kyong Jin Textile Co.                B-059
Sung so Heavy Equip. Co.             B-060
Sung Woo Id. Co.                     B-061         44                  44
Kyung Sung Precision Co.             B-062       Prepaid
Tae Yce.ng Moonwha Printing Co.      5-063         35        30         65       35         13        48
Young 3in  Heavy Equip. Co.          B-064         68        15        83        66          7        73
Snin  Sung Wire Cutting Co.          B-065       Prepaid
Shin  Sung Embroidery Co.            B-067         52                  52        55                   55
Kwa Chun Heavy Equip. Co., Ltd.    B-068         Prepaid
Shin Hyun Constr. Co., Ltd.          B-069        277       140       417       300         95       395
Ando Enterprise Co., Ltd.            B-071        113        18       131       111          9       120
Sam Boo Production Co., Ltd.         8-072        207       100       307       216         70       286
Mmn Young Co.                        B-073         44         4        48        45                   45
Kyong Jia Textile Co.                3-074       Prepaid
Dacr,Ryuk Ies   uip            d  t-O75 -0,
Sea Rita Embroidery Co.              3-076
Woo I1 Sad. Co.                      B-0, 
Shin Jung Nylon Co.                  B-078



10.2 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2215-3K0
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit: million Won)
Sub-              CNB  Financing                 Amount outstanding                  Resche-                     krrears
SubproJect   No   I B R D  Reso   es  Total   I B R D  Resourees   Total                  Lest than 3-6      over        tal
No.                  Resources                                           Prepayement      r)   ffs3 mnth   months  mntbas T
Doug I1 Embroidery Co.               B-080       Prepaid
Surabul Reeord Co.                   B-081         59        30        89        61         13        74
San Jin Corp.                        B-082         64        30        94        59         15        74
Nisung Plastic Co.                   B-083       Prepaid
Kong Gac Clove Co.                   B-084       Prepaid
Ho Chun Ind. Co.                     B-086        188        60       248       184        35        219
Shin Ran Printing Co.                3-087         31       40         71        32        22         54
Kum Soo Precision Co.                B-088       Prepaid
Cho kwZng Glass Co.                  B-089
A-Sung Corp.                         B-090         29                  29        26                   26
Ah Sung Heavy Mach. Co.. Ltd.        B-091         44        10        54        46         5         S1                                                                    I
Eyundai Special Rubbcr Ind. Co.    B-092         Prepaid
Shin I1 Glass Co.                    B-093         80       30        110        80        18         98
Beung I  Ind. Co., Ltd.              B-094        231        40       271       233        22        255
Star World Co.                       B-096       Prepaid
Ova Sung Co.                         B-097         52        10        62        51         5         56
Saesam Ind. Co.                      B-098        118                 118       116                  116
Syundai Integrated.                  B-099         49       45         94        47        25         72
Saujeon Ind.                         B-100       Prepaid
Eva Sung Equip.                      B-101         73                  73        71                   71
Dae Myung Ind.                       B-102       Prepaid
-  Dae-Joo F-eChem.-Co._-103 _                      n                                                              - .  -                                                     _
Kyung In Ceremics Co.                3-104         6.5      20         85        63         12        75
Jumbo Enterprise                     B-lbl       Prepaid                                                                                                                 o
Chuu Egon Electronics Co.            B-108         37        33        72        37         19        56



10-2 Current Status of Subprojects Financed under Loan 2215-310
(As of Dec. 1987)
(Unit:  lillion Won)
Sub-               CNB  Financing                    Amount outstanding                   Resche-                        Arrears
Subproject              Project    'X B R D   CB           Tota    I 3 R D         "        Total-    Prepayment  dule  t'rite-  Ls    hn36              Oe  6
SubrojccNo.  1B R DResources                          Resources                             (Year)  off          ons       ths   mths
Kyung Sung Precision Cb.  B-109           Prepaid
Shia Saeng Precision Co.  B-110           Prepaid
Oh Sung Boring Co.           B-111          48                    48        46                     46
Tae Kvang Electronic Co.  B-112           Prepaid
Cheong Woo Ind.              B-113          50                    50        48                     48
. !
o£
4
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



9-4                                                                                                                                    -W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eeoum.nt1                                                                                                                 Ist o11   in'  rt  '     w stl rt wwr   rt  w  rut    't  it    W $Ps
a's                              toosot':  C  ta  ou r.';g 'l so  sa.a.s ets, oe                   e- ae'       as                          ea   SU       ;*m      '.    m    o       to"teet
I'm   wz'wi                 eu  zm'wn  i'm   ww ws6111  l         t em   ww         i'm  is l      'm   m'uu ml  "rnA   WQP aim    elm  2                 ea,    ml2-
,.   a-s  gira                   a'sqe a o      -  -        a's  as.'u     -  -          (i)   sa'aa go  -  -         tio  a,       -                              w I
~~~  r: ~   ~     ~      : t:.        s:t exm:t  a'.  saa    a   em':t           -:$  sara         uaa       itt 3,  s  s, ,,      s'    a's ::: '  ae  t   . eI           _*t  i
O'   alol *c  a     s:l    l  "'an  Waurpows   Wit -a    "      IGM as'       -Oa         a'a 90omo    584             58m0,n*." om  -s dN
a    Orion                  eta ost,r1 sV s eo '.ta't a C    sin of'f  so  4ew.    as. steJms eo  eMPt OP  *'r5     8*                      re  atWrI    OW   oarm          e u+te _   t
i'm    wai                  i's           i'm    w     i'm   mnsrt em  .vw    i'm   c--   em  aim                em           emIS   '' no A      uw    em   am _I
.s     'e                   a'sala       o a    mesa  a's   our.;   a   out':.      s's  s          n  W*."     at    -as  a-a       'wo n,  wv'81    a-:  auras             dw "t-t e
Toa  s:,ua"t                vttia g.sW.9  stet s'*; tI m"  sre       55 t-o    se in e    soe tW  tot  _u'5&  ato, u.'saa  r'.   es a"             asatW   a,.  a'.        g
a-*ms m                       sU Wt   m    w  Oran   VW gm a'wn e 'uurw rut ',u     o  ut  mwut r ut gte'U    r1    wount  raw  t        ¶e  r     in m' w    rut ineWw        vut-t"1IA
re Wm's                      re gm=ua  re  =Wm  en§M   w rtip m  WWI W'  am m                       I am    VW                 M u  WM  em  WM   i'm  Wm    0inr-TMR1Im
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~att9               :Ious          .   "-#    06t on-or5  40on-t lail"Slow                                                                    "R1 1_
S'S   0s'                   alls, too s    eoo a'  miu is  Oil"            aa               a, ea                    etmt     a-a1  a"'W    O"s   M's -_         U.U eJ eI@g
v's                         sos                         ' n            aI's         t   aur4   aO'-s W'-v a-a   mws                                               -a m'     ameje .St 
na saua';             a so am',oa't 5'@n      a tttt  5 eott   lss 'a;s' s c   em'4,e  slo   em  e.   ats    e,1W  wl'ea   ro   em iss   am   ate'   ran  e' tt 
awemat ino' mm vams .imns
et  Ft t'@  tF  * cetst  ws z  vosee s4*  s4 t  ss'w e w 2 sewt t tNt rt %Mem- A" 



APtL1C OFl MMN
em a NIMTAL NW (LOW 214t 40
PosWeebed and           If       .1982-
A. of 81~~h s.e.                      wW,,mr ~a'-r .                                                            '
As et 8   eO_@ef             ";;Joc         Ka I     Prej*ebod a         Acla   ProesctWl         ACWO    Prejotdlr    Aewo      Proocift z     ctus    Pr-d  ,-  Ac=1
Cueb md %O*e                 110.am      116.18      16           1  t81       1900o       M.2se        1.2         257.200      220.400     236.201                   sat.g m
ow. lug hu  of V WoR    t     1.126       08.79"      76.66        99.417       17.49      109:116      111.790      49.042      141s1       176.396                   2.05
de..etIo beebe      66~0.00     45.462      180.00       8789        18000        46.9on      169.000      89.951       191         so0                       I"76  11468
Foreign inermeq deplte           600      . 4.448        9          6.           1w          6.OO4       zoo          tis          400         4.1I2                     6.440
htle... Iou.              146000   2g8.046        1n 9000      817.670     246.000      2°1 89,66    818         2670n        409.00      481.Te8                   60.56
Osee reg 5   Oe is   loo   MI,D       197.86      249.000      2.974        87.000      8098         891.000     844.151       06.0       484.426                   89.89
T.I SUmwA.Ter LO=n         MAN1    £3411           0.Ow        ELM1         goN         119ZE0       MAIN        Sol,29      t14,          MA.                      gm-
Ssurpitle.                    1800am      44.969     187.am        64.8an     212.000      108.741      167.000     280.04       119 000     6MM68                     764,123
ass tes                       48.00           -       69.000        4.766  s          s0.ne s 0874,00               189,276      69.000        1.812                    74.558
Cem1  611M|
steistlee gd Ee°St         M.0        841.80       ".000       1ml706       491.000     840.         818.40       M6010       76.00       405.460                   84.$n21
Tevm teoo               1.199 7   1.112.106    1.671.84    1.202.78       1.787.86    1.420 806   S.2.9        1.21 611   2.641.SW    1.425.M7                     1.6.94
Ielr euroet ernet_             6         1S8.149   U 2.866        220.1s       61 .140     261 910      9846        842.597      18.424      457.489                   6.491
Toi   Pldrr  o A6&M  d     2bS Wt  LS«tw   12,7    2,0*44)  218.7fO           (21117,S7   9,2,U1A     4,9,25li       (2,6341)  6,49,2051   4S,189 )                  S.M.72
Tedrn AAosTe.:  &2f
OsmeesI gopoIsmae         1on09       18090       186l.000     214 690      177.0am     176.006      896000      221.217      480.000     251I27                    896.179 
Wtstee eptsael169. 449                1N.21        M 19.000    167.064  s     1.o000    219 .61      148.000    2S9426        200.000  7     .604                    06.4 S
eqfiguet         S       24.00       80.688      49.000           2       80,000      e661         12.000       7. 717      s1.000     128 709                   2120949
Poreign cwrtgnev e~gmeet 80.8e ?      20.069       61.806       852,0t      M8.00        4,Z8l       114.117     56.581       1966891      66.257                    87.810
D_e          r-Oo t8u  D   I, §4WM2                14SAf 000         .9 l,Ot,tiS  1,M 104              72AE 0  1    GOA91S    2 8.1"         7S 184                   259595
Lmose  rvil    for doubtfukl
go...                     (18.19)    (12.287      (20.448)    (16.000      (2ro848      (2.660)    (30.278)      (2.061)    (47.00)        (3.100)                  (1.812)
pbt TOMe LOSS Partale I.     ELM).       M.0         43AM         £fl.Uf       MM          M.9         fiM.         E£LM        9aC            MANE                   9RJA
eow. medloi.m/one-o r
amebat                     49.82      48.689       66.66        66.062      74.869       79.897      85.907      118.94       W8.707      121.058                   MO997
Prestom eNW  qwipe.e (Nat)   MM78        68.970       70.88       112.012      96.66       114.221     114.780      22.M2       182.808      168.209                  146.997
Xotl As                    LMAL       2,70         LMLMA        LELM        4,266,6      LM)WUZ    S.UdE          4EL9n.I   LELu            ,Is$,                  6L58
rowtowl l.t., ieust                                                                         toig    .06- 1.22- 1.8  -  17.61M                 19.848                   21. 161
Oseun dpoei to               M990N      466.827      874.400      670.100     476.600      80980       865,00       369,678     781.0 gm      84.688                1.205.119
Tic, mmd e=i*d        tost   1,161.700   1,068.419    1.468.000    1.018.68  1.686.00    1,014,027   2.296.000   1.276,817   2.848.000    1.08y.98                  2.114.988
depmlts                    01,000     385,80      111.000       24.46t     168.000       18,071     230,000       14,178     80.=000       10.,18 4.907                              . 
M~sL                  IJL4M  I-M-04  LEL    LDLM  LIMAM   L.eSll  8.110.000  LZELi   BEZ    2LM.M4                                                                        a!ALI4Z
o N
N



ShiS-tare bmerrowt             I,SOO     16.668        2.200      87w.9         3,000       52.96        4,00        62,614       56.60       7,199                   117.076
Carr.,t inturl ties
beoelt.                   267.,0D    880.787      814,90       40f.424     696,020      67066M       479n60      72Bo  8i6    690 460     740.067                  954.242
Socr..bn.                     997      2.916        1.84         7.064       8.866       i8.461       6.968       17.642       t6.228      22.6an                   is.425
Other rwrent tlebilitis      175.000    164.029      28800 O      20.426      2"6000       3986476     S958000      404 .94      500000      61.79                    6116.42
Toi l ren L*.,t-i^ttl    1,069        2,1-7    2,490,l          2."^9"08    8.0,18    L232S    8.2ff8    S.MS7.                4.090,       MUMS2                   6.031i.2
Iaa irr.n t   t iiizi*tLJ41                      L3.W         LEM {M                   LAn          L2ZM        LL           L .          Ll.1L,Z
MWIumTAmm-U:rs
eavi mm.             2t80900     64 Soo      J90 400      So1 82B     419 .9O      454.160      61 100      488 966      64,6l00     613.128                  659,560
Tim wmi,~ g0_i60. depelt.  66.900     066848       111.140      89.021     121.490       89,666      168.400      ?a:2        197.40      14.484                    17S.s3
Pr.p.t.ras too deviegi
dem tonzts  v           186,100    W1.?"9       178.00 t      06,194     19.90        2"4.104      240.800     841,478       16.800     41s.M                    422,571
Tot.al   M                   etom ts. at                          za.ua       Z4118D       SVm          9R 90089   1,1.6181J    1J,073L                             t.t1s.T44
Om                         is.000      12.779      21.000       18.6        85.00        91.1ts       49.000      21.939       es,00       22.260                   28,430
mMI.                            -          -            -gm                                   - -                      - _          _           -                         _
Totaltar hmt..i             AL                                    3. iA      ZJT             aSS      19            HAE        Z     -M      13.03                   rLs.1
i   *  t  rrel-_      4L~~~~1J    240            1e  t                   #          410            1           LN        24.4         ti4X                       :.5
ADB Coil 2ttt  t T                        2.016            4  r      .14       48t8         18,44        0.o8         17,642      as8o        3.9                      16.42S
ta teReumo17                          J4 m  dIa1                1 3Am  s44011           2e.00        2ZL49        UJfl7       m.n7 2.2R        Z9.23
Othwe o-     Iebu#tIo             -           -            -           -            -            -           -       27.880           -       18.704                   14.488
TftZi bmv bereonm             4AS        MAS         mA.ZA        6hLSE       13 S 3?M 1mA00                      1.Q1.43    LSLMS2             MAN                      ',4
Lo9t. Crpiu                    7 mat1r                 71ie29  o-.41   294.66  791, 6o.406               71        61042        71.en 22,09                          6.120
Mt  term   2b r61                      2,S1O       2 .486,     (28.54,      sie.9r           8       48.281        12.40     2 U0,           1T4                      9
Otho  $oo-e-   ibitios             s.s                                      s2 4.00                                            s .   -   oro s                       oPs.2Pe  14t.48s
a  re3t a"  "t  el         t o      2 4.
tbi
x
os 



90fALIC OP XIAi
cruInm  VATMAL S     tftA* 2144-K1
FMJo^r cOLrtO REPMr
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
; m         MM             roj aw        X;      Proect a3         XeWe    Frojec=         A,m      r lojr:an        ~ tJAcwo    proeaw  21    -t.
~ s .                     us, 21oan u7' ZID.an i    u.  uo.S                 4.1a. #;, s5,ess .             a      ao.ms        mjo          83.S8                      Mm
..q.~~..., *ms    2,097    ~~~1,619        8,96         8,lo4        9.69?       6.263       14,26         ?.648       19,6186       9.072                    0.814
1.m..a e alt  .6k
dmioa6Ie bask.15.                      11.691t ,    215,1608     10,840       86,736       14.115      41.478       21.84        48.6         81.56                     8.68 
lobor"      a morlr Was       58.0        8.,So4       68           2,           81.000,      TM910   s     .          6,"         107,0365      74.266                   97.0
aterat a* "IsI lem.            10.060      2.168        7n6o         1.70          ,120        W,616      109,60        2,607       18,040        1.940                    1.4t
To_al !nt,mt 1..           ELS            -414     mAin          .Lfl        BU77                     inS-N        LEZ s 178edg,             4.n                      Ole
Dtide*& ea  kvastmsie              60        81             0 s                      80o  s      6            so          70            so           446
F.. aMd .wlmiew                 8,086      4,911        8,94         7,18t        8,D10       10.8,8       6.,         16.41         6.670       28.7W                    87,o0
or looms                       U,681       84,2m       16,94        61,466       18l096       61,116       16,69       41,420       18,85        80.00                    52.98?
_ ,e42   M. 4mAN1   go,S                                                   84AiQ24 11n2    MNE2Ao
ISTres as ko -Its            258,.68     266,6        8,624        261,841      886,10      244,378      479,874      360,910      "9.M68       200.991                  80.2"                I-
1.036      1 Get        2,018        2,6          6           4,64         4  8         6,79           241        7 on                    11 11
lutreet on ferelp bwrrsing   I,66l         1,89         4,2J         2,678        6078        4*681       11.61?        6,710       16o407       9,092                     ?600o
CastrheIlea to Credit
14ra"s. POW                  1,946      2,06         2,4          C06l         8,24        9,768        4.179        a,ll         6,424        ,626                     4.0es
O"re  sd.Noltratlse,
ssp_e.                     90,937      07,77       109,12       109,294       a066       1,04         1600.490     148.80       198.,98     158,862                   172,784
Door                           2,9o0       5.616        S,466        4,466        4,168      16.09         6.00        80,2"         6.024      SO.86                     24,901
X           * U  ProwWl o   sd slam   d   4m72in      mA2           mi                                   mAin         n2J1 S    "R .8mt 11mW1 32.                         4t
Pr"oovISem fur doubtful
1e                        568tS       2,97         8,111        S,"7        7,109            -        9,832        1.0I       12,84         2,649
Tle                         8,148           *        6,485          18        6.421                    12.46          ,8l2      17,111       15,749                    16.462
_d6bm                       L         LILIm          LW          I2J14   ZAQ                  U2 !    u0u    24m               5ILJZ7        n.m                      gEo
"a   r     ljow at wrlsnl of Lea 214440.



REnUc OF Kam
CtITIlB  HATIML  M( (LOMG 2144-T
~~~so:   a s~'TW                          a                                            r
1,-  -r toga                   84.0      410.4        416.0        W0.           0.0      890.0       700.0       6.ft'       014.0   . 08.1                      999.8 U
Nsdtimltm.ar toga.  1,87.0   1,48.0  1,610.      1.6W.      2206.4       1,929.4    2,0.0i    2,170.5 8,  9   °                                 ,.2.       i
Dopog  vtb.hot*MW.b*emw        117.      116.          1".        16.         168          116.1      200.8       806.        82.         841.                    V75.
ea,il =0         IA"o , 7   1,600       1,90.4      1,787. 2.9  g.m..        19.60.     8110.1      2,146.0        8,77.9   160.4                  4821.1
OCmpoette= won                   766.8 W   667.9        919.1      1,146.0     1,8.1.    1,478.0       1,890.0     1,08.5     1,78.1      1,618.4                12,012.0
wu1_sepo?nvguNPS 18.                    15.s         211.8       08.9        85.6        27.2        49.9        81.8       04.5        85.8                    43.0
W0/we5                          80.0      08.19        64.6        66.0        90.4        82.8        187.        60.4       179.9        61.1                    49.1
gmI~~                 uj         ~0       DflJ           51           LS         R           IL          54         lAS      1I,0                       M1S
oep   ra *  40.1:1    07.4t1     40.9s1      61.0:1      4.091       61.7t:l     44.:1       50.6e1      46.8:1      47.6:1                  48.0:1
Loagmdgbt/e.atte               ^        14.4:1                    18.6t1                  1O.1:1                  9.8:1                   9.1:1                   6.1:1
Cl@tt tl- ^           ~~~~~~1.1121  1.121     1.t11t       1.1t1      1.10:1       I.IgI      1.09:1       I.Itl      1.0011       1.1:l                   1.1:1
1#.0      14.2        1t.0         11.1        14.7        11.1        14.7        10.8       14.7        10.7                    10.2         _
mesieps Osest moms              11.0      10.6         10.0         e.0        10.4         7.0        10.4         0.0        10.4         6.2                     6.0
felastat __|                     4.0       8.4          4.8         0.1         4.8         4.1         4.8         4.0         4.8         4.5                     4.2
lawmm befors p=oislg  md taM
a. 8 of areegga saS sma"         09          -          0.9           -         0.9        0.08         0.9         0.6         1.0         0.7                     0.e
*   **wo. -;w o. * o.*o. .oe "W, "aO.
I        -gl be  60 as1 .    0.2         -           .g           -          .9        0.41m        0.g         *.o         *.1 '        .8                     0.8
-             [               t } v*7.6  -    -     .0           -    -     .8         1.5        10.4   S     5.1        12.1        14.1                    16.o
W- U3 of -us    to s,=           8.9       8.0          8.7         8.6         8.4         8.6         8.4         8.4         6.8         8.2                     2.0
0so of dupmstts a. U of inverses    106     11.1         11.0         6.0        11.6         7.7        11.0         6.7        u.0          7.0                     0.9
U of6 aa                         7.4       6.1           6.7        6.6         9.0        10.7        10.1        11.1        10.4        11.1                    11.7
laOs.rog  olsa  toogsma b
ofl a,ora1sh.atama              16.7      14.0         16.8        u.0         1.8         11.$       1N.8         12.1        16.8        11.6                    11.5
gOut "sies s a    of p. olvo       1*        1o           in          14          16t         III          0          M          1I          135                     146
lasma frog =150 loga. as I o
moose" ps W* loma eoststea      18.7      14.6          W.8        11.7        10.8        11.4        10.8        11.7       1U.8        11.7                    11.7
asoi n fog fw*smot..eurese
t_os   s I of *
courrsep toga.                   9.8       9.s         10.0         9.9        11.9        11.6 .      12.1        1.2        12.8        12.9                    18.0
^                                                           4_I debt  . * lou.t s  s     * orreat m   -  o le ta    l taviago - last Imat .avtag regIVd ga*d..  toga. as an ist I Isotn- ltoo
CuretW msIts .W outroti as d*@ turitts- reinasretd  Ou  lasOtmat nossto aret timbiitia. arret a sXltuitlltog-rnord mtwl- asstua gooe.                                          H
og,oeg  ,110tim dpnatt, lamsttagt g.,ags dp.stt, mOsS lasat eNot seawiag deposits and sworter. prortg feematima mavias deposit. to Wtotl salpairod Pasda Capitolt.
la                                  _qp to aorrt llstle nXd _l tl11~ 1o tt  1 * curnot  _*mrlzs - e_romsted _1l i                             nt P    p-



-116-
ANNEX 15
3ULIC 0o f
CSITIZUS NATIONL RANK (LOAM 2144-_0
esourceZ Position
(as of December 31, 1987
Amunt
Domestic- CUrreCcyResources 0wao Killion
ILna-tern Resources
Equitys Paid-in capital                                             9go001
R gesV0s and retained earning.                             4S,784
TOtAl BaUAity                                       -     ^1.1L5
Dorrowings  Govermnt s                                               13.120
30K                                                 1. 21 770
Deoe sts /e                                         1,157.744
Total BIOrowrinla                                       1.194.634
Total LOnC-TerS  Domestic Currency lesourcu                   1.336.419
Least Term loans outstanding La                                     917.586
Fixed assets (not)                                          146,997
30K's reserve requirements                                   20,743
Other Long-Tern *asetS                                      129,979
Total LoanTa-tm Lendins and Investmets                         1.215.305
Lana-Term Resources Ata_lable for further Disbursement           121.114
Short-Tern Resources
Deposits                                                          4,282,384
Short-term  borrowings from B0K and Other banks                     123.736
Total Short-Term Domestic Currency Resources                      4.406.120
Leoss  Short-tern loans outstanding                               2,542.968
DOK's reserve requirements                                  252.486
Total Short-Tern Lendina and Investments                          2,795.454
Short-Term Resources Available for further Disbursement          1.610,666
Total Domestic Currency Resources
Total long-tern resources                                         1 3365419
Total short-tern resources                                        4,406.120
Total Domestic Currency Resources                                 5.742.539
Lesst  Total long-term lending  nd investments                    1.215.305
Total short-term lending and investments                  2.795.454
Subtotal                                             4.010.759
Total Domestic Currency Resources Available for Further
uisbursement                                                  1.7317280
eorimn Currency (USS million)
Uncomitted resources (as of end of previous year)                        21
Borrowings from (for the current year)t
ADS
131D                                                                  -0
Others                                                                20
Total PoreiLn Currency Resources                                         41
few Loan cmitmants (for the current year).                               14
Quarter-EAd ForeLsn Resources Position                                   27
la Net of current maturities.



REIC OF 6R
CITIlM mATIIAmL 6M1( tLf* 21444WI
w~~~~~r           BTCOPLr            *RE PW
l0lraLx    anEI*
Uqu~~~~uu~~~t tern In ilb.iIo~duin
PrOI;i;i -tpret   principal ine*L         r idPe I "   fst       . To        V."      r                   ew
I                   in ~~~~ 144        11.119   7,88       11.870    7.82     169         1.1.11    ?'.816    18.464     98.9       97.7    98.6
196                        s41      170       18.911   6.11       14.188    6,197    82.450      MM71       Ole1   81.780       go1       9.6      9.
1964                       67       89        24,711   9.86        6.869    9,689    es24        1471      980       402        9.        96.6    96.
163                      2.11       lee       85.011  11,186     186.86   211.846    49.869       5.021   11.199    46.611      91.6      9.6      9.
19g6                     8699       189       418an   12.669      47.11n   is.1lo00 60.89        41,691   121.s 864,80          67.9      97.0   910.1
196                      4.941      480       161170  19.11117    41.111   90,487    61.849      16.170   19:7176   68.946      60.0      96.      90.9
4                   no tr              o8  1     1.o67       D                1.42                 961UA     9.9    97.9
1966                    86        1i         1.99    8.1         8,08     8.119     6.I'1      1.6      88        1685        98.0      97.8   "9.
1984                      667   g514          6,8    5'9"          6n'  5.618    11,615         6, l118    S.99    In a114     90.2      91.1    90.
19a                      1.619    1068        1006    6 .099      11.678    9.18     11.060      10.0on   7.4       17t's"      04.7      02.4       .7
1966                     4 066    21.111      18.6411 ,011Ot      17.918   18.115    811.029     18.654    9.97    18 61        77.8      76.0    76.
19817                    4.871    1.780       47.8118   $:"1      81.667   10.77     02S.47     47.818    9.02     86,829       91.8      06.5    90.7r
7.701    89         18119117                               4, i _  s006  *04.719   6s.09    4 1         7.4      0.       97.8
1968                     9.180      *&          AIII 8.018       80.96    901    67O78          676.461   67.081   661,18       98.1      96.    '98.0'
19966                   1067      1.76       76.044 101.8311    79.617  104             WY90   Oi9.      lot04    10182  84,85"  98.7     97.8    9.
1la65                   1. 28   1.183         w  96.5 te1.881    0996.159  110.48  1.119748    987.64  116.947 1.106,761        98.9      96.7    98s.0a
1966                    10o8      1m8      1,097.19 180.411   1.107.818  181.047 1,189.80   1 .097.179    10925 18820.17        99.1      99.1    991I..
1967                    11.77     1.966     U 1,.an0 148.1110   1.166.606  148.80  1.4:14.1    1.987.080  148.167 1 .400.197    99.1      96.4    99.0
ltur               ~~~~.519   8SAW     419.10  19.76       417.6   184.284   8611.681     406.666  11.910   88686         95.6      9.3.    96.6
1968                    18.960    6.806      544.86  141.631    8614.819  149.9816  718.465    548.89.61  142.906   666,801     906.      95.8,   96.2
1964                    28.249    4.916      71.06  161.018      786.8650  166e8    095.244    7ns.06   162.018   677.079       96.9      97.1    96.9
1966                    16.660    4.718      on.m  179.164       696A40   188.97  1.079.86211    m8.so    179.407 1.046.171     97.0      97.8    97.1
1966                    v 197    4.089       996 09719811    1,08.164  194.7 1,I116.8          995M.097  190.69111 1.108.969    97.8      96.8    97.5
1967                    20:7811   5:644      980.01  112:416    '966.741   MAR06  1.174.6005   960.011  210.618 314.140,24      97.2      96.7    97. 1
1961             ~~~~~~~~~16.8761   9,491  79,469  M.018   66.668   MAN50  1     So0o6    76.87   881.990 1,009.86         0.       95.9    96.8
1966                    16.467    9.514    1,146.188 141.666   1.176.620  151.177  1.4777 115.1           I.618667              9.        95.9    97.13
19614                    8.866    6.6311   1.8311.947 176.1781  1.664,618  265.701 1.88101    1.63,47  08170,7  1.607.110       97. 7     07.0    97.6
1965                    4805      6,117    1.901.70  816,665   1,964.M8  826.96   .6.24 I 1901,707  817,160 2.218.968           97.6      97.8    97.8
1906                    46.9694   6.01      1147 78  844.810    ,194.741  851.8917 2.847.6    1.147 7M1   44.610 2,492.061      97.9      97.6    97.6
1967           47.008    9,9~~~~~~~~~168 1.1 70.89  86.16 1816.849  894.779 1.1816    2.7086  868,M070 1 .658.59       97.9      97.0    97.0
lw  47 an 9:  t m am 910                             2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
U



RwWLIc OF NM
CrTIZmS iATINKL MAW (L2M 21144.4M
RMWCt COMPEtI t EPORT
Tet tomm om       te               789,909    1,674,910      9,189    2.1.07    094.19   29,6,8    *76.078    2.St.7M    67,6               .,90   917.88l    8,514.36
"t                 l o_d   l          t,6o1      190         1,06        87.64      1,871       88,167     1.74        69.67      2.4"9       97.16      8.6t6      114.019
LAm_ St _ m. 4o.                   751,666    1.644,911   m,es    2,9,6W          6.e6v7    ,469.978   874.194    2,789,048   678.606    2,6.61    918.649    6.400.818
OhPpmed$.. =M$ of _OA.
ftM1-Wbp Omete.               166,666      204.066   166,049      290,8119  164,96       995.896   186.677      899715   147.116       868719   1888.896      409.466
-Imetg.t                          1    5467   :18.41                   al.low    154,98        66    166t6le         48,068   147,120       46.969   188.696       4768 ,
Iu9mretm                         tS<9.614                              10,190                  690 ,.117                                     6.017 9t664
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                           41L140                 43.w                                 6aSTAN
.   st  i               t. e                      10.9                    9.7                   11.7                   19.1                   11.9                   11.7
lobil "_rmr aset  toIle                                                       4t                                           -                      -
fea ut. ...9g45*                                  i.e                     1.6                    1.7                    I.e                    1.6                    1.6
veto# st tesa of                                                                                  d:o m                     8                   eet                                             -aso
of ttato Iowa  I*  ,p2et                           1.5                    1.4                    1.4                    1.6                    1.6                    1.2
o Iamta  rot. (U)
Prt o                                            96.5                    97.4                   97.7                   97.6                   97.9                  97.9
_our"9. 6.9                                                                                   97.0                   97.6                   9.6                    97.0
L... r. ...$7,648                                61,97       6.286       48,97     9.679        84.69     1,671        86,71      8.76        47.at15    8.718      4?7,70
LM"   ,= W                              so~~~~~1                                     sot88                  6et                  1.911,
Io*Sa  wmeep                 Total Prinoleti Arrears
mm                  ~~~~~~~97,481                 WM966                                9  196
14.225               52~8,178                             to:.Yoe
8-6 malts.              ~~~~14,118                   88,418                                4 257
Ow.. 11 omaths          ~~138,17                     1,0 
14?       8.46         846        6SW        no         8.174         48        9,819        2          891         8        1,889



- 119 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------___-_-
Ln. No.|  Title  I           Purpose           I Year IStatus I           Comments
______I_________I________________________I______I_______ I------------------I
1829 ICNB I    jFinance SHI subprojects.1 1980 iClosed I
1175 ISMIB      iFinance SMI subprojects.1 1975 IClosed
1507 ISMIB II  IFinance SHI subi-ojects.1 1978 IClosed I
1749 ISMIB III IFinance SMI subprojects.1 1979 iClosed
2004 ISMIB IV  IFinance SKI subprojects.1 1981 IClosed
2071 ISAL        IFinance SMI subprojects.1 1981 jClosed
2215 ISHII       IFinance SKI subprojects.1 1982 IClosed jApex type loan to C.B,
i          I                           I      I        ISHIB, KLB and SMIPC.
2515 |SMI        IFinance SKI subprojects.l 1985 [Closed lApex type loan to CUB,
I          I                           I       I       ISMIB and SMIPC.
2. PROJECT TIHETABLE
------------------------------------------------------------
Date           Date            Date
Item           Planned         Revised        Actual
Identification (EPS)    8121181                           10/8/81
Preparation                   -                              _
Appraisal Mission         10112/81                       10/19/81
Loan Negotiation           3/12182                        3/22/82
Board Approval             5115/82                        5/13182
Loan Signature             5/21/82                        5/24/82
Loan Effectiveness         8124/82                        8/24/82
Loan Closing              12131/86                       12/31/86
Loan Completion            6/30/85                        6/30/85
3. CUMULATIVE AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
------___--------------------------__-----____-__-----___--------___---------__-.
Cumulative              Actual as a Z
FY     Estimated        Actual      Estimated        Actual       of Estimated
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-.
1983           0.6            0.6           0.6            0.6         100.0
1984          13.4           10.5          14.0           11.1          79.3
1985          12.0           12.6          26.0           23.7          91.2
1986           3.5            4.4          29.5           28.1          95.3
1987           0.5            0.1          30.0           28.2          93.7
Date of Final Disbursement: June 16, 1986



- 120 -
4.    ProJect Implementation
A.  Purpose, Sectoral and Georaraphical Distributica of Subprojects
Amount
No.          ($'000)        z
A. Purpose
New                                    115           9,137         32.5
C  ancsion                             199          18.500         66.2
Balancing, Hodernization and
Replacement                            6             365          1.3
Total                             320          28,Z02       100
8. Sub-sectoral distribution
Man tufacturinc                        205          15 204         53.9
ragallooat W6e and tobacco             T1                           ZU_
Testile, vwering apparel and
leather                               44           2,436          8.6
Wood and, wood products                  2             191          0.7
Paper, paper products and printing    34             1,988          7.0
Chemicals and petroleum, coal.
rubber and plastic products           16           1,590          5.6
Non-metallic mineral products            8             698          2.5
Basic metals                             2             241          0.9
Metal products, machinery and
products                              24           1,971          7.0
Others                                   4             281          1.0
Non-manufacturing                      115          12 998         46.1
Transportation                           1             544          1.9
Construction                            21           2,542          9.0
Service                                 92           9,378         33.3
Total                             320          28,Z02       100
C.  Geoaraphical distribution
Seoul City                             153          13,287         47.1
Kyung-gi province                       43           4,097         14.5
Soutn chungcheong province              14             914          3.3
North Chungcheong province               8           1,293          4.6
Kan     province                         1              46          0.2
South Jeonra province                   S8           3.985         14.1
North Jeonra province                    8             767          2.7
South Kyungsang province                 9             518          1.8
North Kyungsang province                10           1.411          5.0
Pusan City                              1S           1.794          6.4
Cheju province                           1              90          0.3
Total                             320          28,202       100



S. CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2144-KO
(Won Millon)
I                      I           I          Project Coast     I          CNB Financing                Project Completion
Sub- I---- -----
Proloct I                       I Nature of I                  I        I  Local I Foreign I i of Actual I   Est. I Actual IDifferoncelLthod of           I
Number I       Borrower        iSubproject I   Est. I Actual lOverrun I  Fundo I  Funds I Project Cost I(Mo./Yr.)I(Mo./Yr.)I (Months) IProcur.eint   I
A-006   iNuam HFevy Equipment  lExponaion  I    l3 1   133 I   0.0 I           0 1      74 1         66.6 I   9/83 1   9/83 1           0 fProp. Contracti
A-OlO   ID3 Jong Heavy Eqpt.  IN..          I    454 1   460 1   8.0 I          0 1    186 1          79.3 l   S/86 1   4/86 1          -1 llntl. Bidding I
A-O16   iJung Suck Cont.       lExponsion  I    547 I   6S0 I   3.0 I          30 1    462 1          37.6 1   818  8I85 I               0 l)ntl. Bidding I
-004   lHuam Hoavy Equipment  lExpension  I    222 I   222 I   0.0 I            0 l    1S6 I          8a3.  I   7/83 1   7/88 I          0 IProp. Contractl
8-82M   ISo Yang Hbevy Eqpt.  lExponsion  1    346 1   860 1  14.0 1            0 1    290 1          80.6 1   7/86 I   7/86 I           C lInti. Bidding I
a-Ss?   jUha Jin Heavy Eqpt.   lExponolon  1       54 I    64 l   0.0 I         0 1      43 1         79.6 1  10/85 I  10/85 I           0 lIntl. Bidding 1
3-299   ITue Jin Enterprise    lExpension  I       48 l    48 l   0.0 I         0 1      87 1         77.1 1   l/86        1/86 I        0 lntI. Bidding 1
B-29O  fun*on Printing          lExpanoion  l      72 I    72 l   0.0 I        20 I      88 I         80.6 I   6/85 I   6/86 I           0 llnti. Bidding 1
8-289   loons Shin Photo        IN..        I      45 I    46 I   0.0 1        27 1      60 1        198.3 I   5/86 I   6/86 I           0 llntl. Bidding I
8-287  liBon Rao Heavy Eqpt.  lExpansion  I        38 I    88 I     0.0         0 O 1    29 1         76.3 1   4/86 1   6/86        1     lIlntl. BiddingI
8-240   iShin Sung Ind.         lExpanaion  I      69 I    60 s     1.0 I      15 1      29 1         78.8 1   2/86 1   2/86 1           0 lIntl. Bidding I
B-262   ISo Hoe Laver           lExpanaion  I    3OO I   346 1 -16.0 1         40 1    116 1          46.2 1   6/86 I   3/36 1          -2 lInti. Bidding I
B-260   IHNs Sun So            jExpanslon  I       87 I    87 I   0.0 1        20 1      34 1         02.1 1   3/86 I   8/86 I           0 lIntl. Bidding I
8-212   IYoung Who Printing    tew          I     88 I    85 1   2.0 1         16 1      42 1         67.1 1  10/84 1  10/84 1           0 lInti. Bidding I
9-221   IHeung 1I Printing      lExpanason  I     40 1    40 1   0.0 I          9 1      24 I         82.6 1  12/84 1  12/84 1           0 lInti. Bidding I
8-286   IYoung Munwha          IExpanelon  I      60 I    60 I   0.0 I         10 1      32 1         70.0 1  11/84 t  11/84 1           0 lInti. Bidding I
8-182   lOon. Shin Sob.nggi    lExpanelon  I      64 1    64 I   0.0 I          0 1      32 I         60.0 I   9/84 1   9/84 1           0 lInti. Bidding 
8-187   IDong Il Silk          lExpenaton  I      89 I    39 I   0.0 I          0 I      16 I         88.6 1  10/84 1  10/84 1           0 lInt'. Bidding I
8-199   ISa. Han Heavy Eqpt.   lExpanslon  l       40 1    40 1   0.0           0 I      so I         7.0 1   9/84 1   9/84 1            0 (Intl. Bidd"in  I
9-204   IO II                  IN".         I      S11     6  1   4.0 l                 321          72.7l  11/84    11/41              o lIntl. Bidding 
3-162    Han Cook Decal        lExpension  l    112 1   110 1  -2.0 I          28 1      20 I         43.6 1   8/8  I   7/84 I          -1 lInti. Bidding I F
8-156    Sam Song Printing     lExpansion  I      S9 I    60 I   1.0 I         10        87 I         78.3 I   1/u4 1   7/84 I           0 Intl. Bidding I 
8-162   lAcl  Ind.              lExpansion  I      47 1     47 1    0.0 I      10        12i1         4fI.  1   7/84 1   7/84            0 lIntl. Bidding I
8-168   ISubeung Ind.          1ew          I     as 1      aso     0.0 I       0        20 1         bz.6 1   9/84 1   9/84 1           0 lIntl. Bidding I
8-123   lOuck Sung Heavy Eqpt. lExpension  I    284 1   226 1  -9.0 1           0 I    109 1          48.4 I   7/84 1   71/4 I           0 lInti. Bidding I
B-182   jHyup Wang Printing    lExppenion        105 I   106 I   0.0 I          01       77 1         73.3 1   S/84 1   6/84 1           0 lInti. Bidding I
3-186   ISilea Embroidery      lExpanslon         76 I    76 I   0.0 I         18 1      41 1         75.0 1   7/84 I   7/84 I           0 lIntl. Bidding I
8-149   lB.ikhop Fiber Ind.    lev                so I    s o       0.0 1       0 1      18 I         60.0 I   9/84       9/84 1         0 lIntl. Bidding I
B-093   iSung Buk Food         IN"a w            108 1    110       2.0 1      201       8s1          77.31    3/I 41    4/84 1          0 lIntl. BiddingI
S-101   Ilen He                INov               i6 I    Go I   0.0 I          6 1      42 I         81.0 1   2/94 1   2/84 1           0 Ilnti. Bidding I
8-119   1Dong Sung Heavy Eqpt. jExpension  I    120 I   120 1   0.0 I           0 9      72 1         60.0 1   4/84 1   4/84 1           0 lProp. Contracti
B-OB   ISse Ha Foods           lExpension  I    121        120 1   -1.0 I       0 1      64 I         46.01    2/84 I   2/84 1           0 lInti. Bidding I
B-oe9   IKyun He Embroidery   lExpansion  I       37       37 I   0.0 I        to 1      24 1         91.9 t   2/84 I   2/84             0 lIntl. Bidding 1
S-072   ID.o Han Rood Paint    lExpansion  I      80       ao I   0.0 I         0 I      34 I         56.7 1   1/84 I   1/84 1           0 lInti. Bidding 1
9-076   IHan Kook Ceological   1NbW         I    11C      lS I   0.0 I         0 I      as I         80.4 l   3/84 1   3/84 I           0 lInti. Bidding I
E-040   iChun In               lExpansion  I      97 I    95 1  -2.0 1         20 I      67 I         81.1 I   2/84 1   3/84 I           1 lInti. Bidding
8-084   ISO Yang Construction lExpansbon  I       69 I    80 I   1.0 1         20 I      S0 I         88.8 I  11/83 1  12/83 1           1 lIntl. Bidding I
B-080   IKum Chi  hong         ImNw         I     78 1    78 I   0.0 I          0 I      6a I         80.8 i   4/84 1   a/84 1         -1 lIntl. Bidding I
83-o9   Igoo                   1N1o         I     90 I     90 1    0.0 1        0 1      S1 I          6.71    2/84 1   2/841           0 lIntl. Biddingl
8-044   10. Seong              IN",         I     86 I    86 I  -1.0 I          0 1      64 1         75.3 I   2/84 1   2/84 1          0 lInti. Biiddng 
0-047   1Ie. Ch2ng             INew               e 8s I    66 I   0.0 1        0 1      51 I         78.6 I   2/84 1   2/84 1          0 lIntI. Bidding I
9-062   lPyung Suck            INw"         1     74 1    74 1   0.0 I          0 1      62 1         70.3 I   4/84 I   4/84 1          0 lintI. Bidding I
B-066   lDao-A Lead Wire       lExpIncion  1    227 1   230 1   3.0             0 O 1    91 I         39.6 1   2/84 1   2/84 1          0 lInti. Bidding I
8-060   IN* Moh Auto           lExpancion  I      79 I    80 I   1.0 I          0 I      68 1         72.5 I   2/84 1   2(84 1          0 lInti. Bidding I
8-013   ISOM Jon               IN.,         I     84 1    86 1   1.0 I          6 I      68 1         74.1 1   2/84 1   2/84 1          0 lInti. Bidding I
B-olU  IJao It                 INv          I     76e 1    76 1   0.0 I         0 1      69 1         77.6 1   2/84 1   2/84 1          0 lInti. Bidding 1
B-019  lu Dong                INew         I     89 1    90 1   1.0 I          0 1      60 I         65.6 1   2/84 1   2/84 1          0 lInti. Bidding I



S.  CHACTEIISTICS OF SUOJECTS FCN ED tER LON21"44K
(wo Mlillion)
I           I             I          ~~~~~~~~~~ProJ et Cost  I       NO Financing               I     ProJect Conpl-t;onlI
Sub                                           ------------   - --  ------ -  -  -------I-----____ _ ----__ _ _--_____ I-  -______ _______ _______ ____---
PreJeet                            INatuer  of I                     I         I Local I Foroign I S of Actual I    Est. I  Actuel 10ifferencelilothod of                I
11_r        80~Brroer        (Subproject I    Est.   Actul lOverrn I   Funds I   Funde I Proj ct Cost (!0/r)(l   r)  (mlonths) 110rocuremnt   I
il04 Shia Pa"  ngl  vy Fq4  Exp*ntoln  1         278 1    280        2.0 1        0 1      202 1           72.1 1    3J84 1    3/84 1           o lIntl. Bidding I
8-        To Ron Ept. kIbeh       IExwneXon   I       90 I      9O 0 I   00 I         0 1       67 1           st4.4 1   12184 1    1/84 1          1 ilntl. Bidding
IFOU      $010I  Cenet  Mack.    IExpre'tson  I       177 I    ISO I    a.o I          o I      139 1           77.2 1    1/84 1    1t84 1           O itntl. Bidding
8-        Uh Son                   IN"                 72 1      72       0.0 I        0 I        So            81.0 1    3/84 1    3/84 1           0  I atl. Bidding 
11?7    Woo Sblin Indsry          IExpentelon         248       248       0.0 I       66 1       79 1            4.0 1    9J88 1    9/93 1           0  Intl  iliddin  t
1-6       Shia Too Yang Constr. IExpaneton            leg8      190       2.0 1        0 1      144 1           It5 8      12/68 1   12/83 1         0 Itntl.     di;"n9 
B-Oa     ill as                   IN"                  7S I      is I    0.0 I         O l       64 l           s.a 1    4/U4 I    3/04 1           -1  Itntl. Bidding 
B-1       E"un He                 1lbx                 69 I      ?o I    1.o10 I                 S0  1 "         2.9 1    2/84 1    2/84 1           0 Illtl. Bidding I
B-08    1Deng So                   IExponslon  l      104 l    104 l    0.0 I          O l       as l           e2.s 1    8/s4 I    S/84 1           0 Itntl. Oldding I
8-02     lo" won                  lNew          I      98 I    100 1    2.0 1         2S         t9 1           84.0 1    4/84 1    3/94 1          -1 lItlti  Bidding 1
8-02S    1 lbn Ho                  IlS          1      84 1      86s I    1.0 I        0         S9 1           60 4 1    2/84 1    2/84 1           0 lIntl. liddinil I
10-21   lHwo Non                  JElipone;on  I       es I      es I    0.0 I         0         U 51           78 C I    2/84 1    2/64 I           O llntl. 8id7ln9 I
8-018   IDae Yongy                IN"           I      es 1      84 1    1.0 I         0 I       as I           76 0 1    2/84 1    2/84 1           0 lInti. 87dding I
-----------------------------------------------------------           ______ _   ----------------------------------------------------------        ______  ____________



C. ECONOWIC INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2144-KO
(Second year of operation)
-----------------------------.-----_---------------------------__---_--------__-----------
I                        I            lInvestment |Incremental|      I      I
Subproject I                        llncrem_ntal lper Worker IValue AddedlEx-postlsx-postl
Number   1lorrover                iEmployment  l(W Million)I(WK illion)l  FRR I  ERR I
A-005      lBuam Heavy Equipment    1         6 1      22.2 1       375 1 29.5 1 36.3 1
A-010     jDae Jong Heavy Equipment I        10        46.0         280 I 19.8 I 31.8
A-015     |Jung Suck Construction   |         3 |    183.3 |        171 | 24.9 | 45.3
3-004      Iuam Heavy Equipment     I        13 I      17.1 I       164
B-325     jSam Yang Heavy Equipment I         4 I      90.0 I       180 I 20.4 I 48.2
8-337      lWha Jin Heavy Equipment  I        2 I      27.0 I       214
B-293     ITae Jln Enterprise                 6 1       8.0 I       443
3-299     jUnion Printing           I         7 1      10.3 1        89 I
B-269      iDong Shin Photo         I         3 I      15.0 j        42
3-287      IBong Rae Heavy Equipment           1 1    38.0 I        75 I       I      I
3-240      IShin Sung Ind.          I         21       30.01        149 j       I      I
B-252     ISam Rae Laver            I        60         5.8         8 824 I     I      I
B-260     IHee Nun Sa               I         2 I      43.5         129 I       I      I
B-212     IYoung Wha Printing       I         4 I      21.3 I       216
B-221     iHeung I1 Printing                   1 I    40.0 I        65 |
3-235     IYoung Munwha                       1 1      60.0 1        93S        1
B-182     IDOng Shin Sobanggi                 6 j      10.7          " 75
B-187     |Dong I1 Silk             I         _             I        90         I |
B-199      ISam Han Heavy Equipment  |        2 |      20.0         163     1   1
B-204      IYeIl                              4 1      13.8 1        541
B-152     lHan Cook Decal           I         4 j      27.5 I       304                I
3-156     ISam Sung Printing                  3         20.0 I      35
3-162      lAsia Ind.               I5                  9.4 1       110 I
3-168     IBubeung Ind.                       5        7.6 1       49 1
3-123      IDuck Sung Heavy Equipmentl        8 1      28.1 |       79 |
B-132     IHiup Wang Printing       1         6 1      17.5 I      110
B-136     ISilra Embroidery         I         3 1      25.3 1       57 I
B-149     lBaikhap Fiber Ind.       I         3        i ±o.0       27
3,093     ISung Buk Food            f        12         9.2 I      119
B-101     |Man No                   f        12 1       4.8 1      118ie
8-119     IDong Sung Heavy Equipmentl         3 1      40.0 |       96 1 |             I
B-066     ISam Rae Foods            1        17         7.1 I     1170
B-069     IKyung Ho Embroidery      I         2        18.5 I       77 I       I       I
B-072      IDae Han Road Line Paint  |        2 I      30.0 I      377 1       1



C.  SC'ROMIC INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2144-KO
(Fecond year of operation)
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-----------
I                           I             llnvestment Ilncrementall          I       I
Subproject I                            lIncremental Iper Worker IValue AddedlEx-postlEx-postJ
Nui.ber   IBorrower                   lEmployment  |(W Million)I(W Million)l   FRR I  ERR I
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
B-076       18an Kook Geological        j           8 1       14.4 1        141 1        1        I
3-080       IChun In                               37 1        2.6 1        211          I
B-084       ISam Yang Construction                  2         30.0          391
M-088       IKum Chi Nong                          10 I        7.8 I        135
B-039       lWeon                       j          10 I        9.0 1        126C
B-044       IDae Seong                             10 1        8.5 1        249          I
B-047       ITae Chang                  I          10 1        6.5 1        137 ?
B-052       jPyung Suck                 I          12 1        6.2 |        138 B
B-056       IDae-A Lead Wire            I           6 I       38.3 I        594
B-06i       iBo Nah Auto                            1 I       80.0          416
B-013       ISam Jin                               11 1        7.7 i        212                   I
B-016       IJae Il                                11 1        6.9 1        2121
B-019       iNu Dong                               11t         8.21         142
B-024       IShin Heung Heavy Eqpt.   I            15         18.7 I        366
3-029       ITe RAn Heavy Eqpt. Mach.               5         18.0 I        150
B-033       ISamil Const. Machinery                 a 8       22.5          207
B-036      IlV  Seong                   1          10          7.2 1        144
B-037       |Woo Shin Industry                     19         13.1          273
B-035       IShin Tae Yang Constr.    1             2         95.0  .       275
B-034       IHak Ga                     1          10 1        7.5 w        1411         I
B-031       lEun Ha                                12]1        5.8 1        122                   I
B-030       iDang Sa                                4 1       26.0 1        147 (
B-028       iDae Weon                   I          11 I        9.1 I        118 I        I
3-025       IMan Ho                                10 1        8.5 I         98I         I
B-021       iHwa Weon                   I          -8 1       -8.1 1        1711
B-018       IDae Yang                              10 1       8.4 1        117 ?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-----------_



D. FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2144-40
(Second year of operation)
I                           I              P R OF I T  A S  A   S
I                           I       Sales      I    Networth    I    Assets         I
SubprojectI                            l-----------------l----------------------------------
Number  I         Borrower           lEstimatedIActual IEstimatedIActual IEstimatedIActual I
--------- I     ..-I                           I -       I       I      I         I I
A-005     IHUU. Heavy Equipment        I    7.5      7.6      28.9    29.3 1    7.6 1  7.8
A-010     IDae Jong Heavy Equipment          8.8    22.3 1   48.0   48.1         13.5 1 13.6
A-015     IJung Suck Construction      I    4.3 I  4.4        18.0    18.1 1       .7 I   7.9 1
3-004     lHuam Heavy Equipment             25.5    24.5 1   65.2 1 64.3         21.7 I 20.8
B-325     |Sam Yang Heavy Equipment   I   16.1    15.4 1   43.5    42.1 1   14.9 1 14.3
b-337     ilha Jin Heavy Equipment          30.2    29.6      73.0 1 73.0 1   24.7 I 24.5
B-293     iTae Jin Enterprise          I    3.5 1  3.4 1    6.5        6.5 I    3.8 1  3.8
B-299     jUnion Printing                    4.6 1  6.0 1   16.2 j 16.9 1    8.3 1  8.9
3-269     IDong Shin Photo             I   17.6    17.5       34.5    33.6       18.6 1 18.1
B-287    lIBong Rae Heavy Equipment   I   23.5 I 23.1 1   33.9 1 34.0            22.1 1 22.0 1
B-240     IShin Sung Ind.              I   18.3 1 17.6        34.8 1 35.0 I   16.0 1 16.0 1
B-252     |Sam Rae Laver                     1.1     1.1 j   18.4    17.1         5.6 I  4.6 1
5-260     IHee Hun Sa                  I    3.3 1  3.6 j   10.6    11.0 1    6.8 1  7.0 j                              U
B-212     jYoung Wha Printing                3.5     3.7 1   32.9 1 33.0         13.1 1 13.5 1
B-221     IHeung 11 Printing           I   11.1    11.7       11.4 I 11.5        10.6   11.0
B-235     jYoung Munh8ha                     6.5 I  7.6 1   17.6    18.0          8.8 1  9.1 1
B-182     IDong Shin Sobauggi          I    8.2      8.1 1   47.6 f 47.6 1   14.8 I 14.8 1
B-187     IDong 11 Silk                      7.4 1  7.5 1   40.7 1 41.9 1   17.5 1 18.6
B-199     ISa Han Heavy Equipment    I   21.8    20.8 1   45.3 1 45.5 I   17.3 1 17.5
B-204     IYe I1                       I   11.2 1 11.0 1   41.7 I 42.0 1   16.2 1 16.4 1
3-152     IHan Cook Decal              I    3.4      3.4 1   23.3    23.3 1    7.8        7.8
3-156     Isam Sung Printing           j    7.7    8.0 1   13.2 1 14.0 1          7.3     7.6
B-162     lAsia Ind.                   I    2.3 1  2.6 1   18.2 1 19.3 1    9.0 1  9.6 1
3-168     Iluheung Ind.                     21.6 1 20.0       57.9 1 57.5 1   28.1 1 28.0 1
B-123     IDuck Sung Heavy Equipment        15.7 1 15.3 1   33.8 1 33.1 1   10.1 1  9.3 1
B-132     jHyup Wang Printing          I   10.6 1 10.7        24.1 1 24.1        8.3 1  8.3 1
3-136     ISilra Embroidery            I   12.0    11.5 1   15.8 1 15.2 1    9.9 I  9.5 1
B-149     Ilaikhap Fiber Ind.          I   20.9 1 20.0        20.4 1 21.6        12.7 1 13.2 1
3-093     iSung Buk Food               |    6.7 I  6.6 1   40.2 1 40.6 I   15.6   15.9
3-101     IMan Ho                      I    6.7      6.8 1   42.0    41.8       16.7    15.9 I
B-119     IDong Sung Heavy Equipment  I   11.6    11.7 1   19.2    19.3 1   11.1    11.3 1
B-066     ISam Hae Foods                     1.6     1.7      25.0    25.8 1    4.9 I  5.3
3-069     jKyung Ho Embroidery         I    9.8    13.2 1   13.4 1 15.3 1    8.4 1 10.6
B-072     IDae Han Road Line Paint    I    3.9 1  2.6 1   43.1 1 43.1 1   11.6 1 11.9 1



D. FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2144-KO
(Second year of operation)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------------
|                           |              P R O F I T   A S  A   2
I 0    Sales      I    Networth    I    Assets
Subprojectl                             ----------------- I--- ------------ I-----------------I
Number  I         Borrower           IEstimatedlActual lEstimatedlActual IEstimatedlActual
5-076     18an Kook Geological         I   10.2 I 10.0        39.2 f 39.3 1   17.9 1 18.1
B-080     IChun In                     I    3.2 1  2.5 1   30.8 1 28.3 1   11.7 1 10.2 1
B-084     iS.m Yang Construction       1    2.2 I  2.3 J    6.5 J  6.7 j    3.9           4.3
B-088     IKum Chi Nong                     10.9 I 10.5 1   38.2 I 37.3          17.4 j 16.3
B-039     Iveon                              6.7 1  6.7 1   41.0 1 41.1 1   12.3 1 12.5
B-044     jDae Seong                        10.0 1 10.3 1   67.9 1 68.1 1   27.9 J 28.1
B-047     ITae Chang                   1   15.1 1 15.0 1   66.6 1 65.8 1   30.3 I 29.9
B-052     jPyung Suck                  I    7.8 1  8.0 1   42.4 1 41.3 1   16.4    15.6
B-056     IDae-A Lead Wire             I    2.0 J  2.0 J   25.3 | 25.8 |    6.2           6.8
B-060     |Ho Nah Auto                       8.8     8.9      36.2    36.8 |   13.51  14.0
B-013     Isam Jin                     I   18.3 1 17.4 1   53.8 1 51.2 1   26.7 1 25.2
B-016     IJae II                           19.2 1 18.7 1   54.9 1 53.2 1   27.6    25.4
B-019     jNu Dong                     I    5.1 1  5.2 1   19.0 1 19.0 1    9.7 1  9.5j
B-024     IShin Heung Heavy Eqpt.      I   12.0   12.2 I   39.5 I 39.8 I   13.9    14.0
B-029     ITe Run Heavy Eqpt. Mach.   |   27.3 | 27.3         59.7 | 59.7 I   16.3 I 16.3
B-033     ISamil Const. Machinery      I   14.6 I -2.8 j   40.3    -6.1          12.3 I -3.2
B-036     lUh Seong                    I   11.6 1 10.7 1   45.8 1 44.2 |   18.4    17.8
B-037     IWoo Shin Industry                 6.8    6.8 I   32.0 I 32.5 j    8.0          8.3
5-035     IShin Tae Yang Constr.       I    3.4 I  3.4 1   30.0 j 30.0            3.5     3.6
B-034     18ak Ga                      |   16.1 | 16.5 |   65.9 1 65.8 |   28.2 j 28.4
5-031     lEun Ba                      1    9.9 1  9.2 1   32.6 1 31.2 1   11.7 j 10.6
B-030     lDang Sa                     |    7.2 1  6.9 1   22.6 | 20.2 |   12.1    11.5
B-028     fDae Neon                          6.7 1  6.7 1   63.3 1 63.0 |   19.7    19.5
B-025     Iman Ho                      1    8.8 1  8.8 1   31.9 1 31.7 1   13.0 I 12.91
B-021     jBwa Weon                    j    4.6 1  4.2 1   16.9 1 15.4 1    9.1           8.6
D-018     IDae Yang                    I    6.1    5.6 |   27.6 1 26.3 1   12.9 j 12.7
----------------------------------------------_-----------------------__-----__--------------



5    MB's8 Financial Performance                                   cns hTIlgL B   t 244-K
A. Preo.t.ed rnd "aWml1         A t.5 nt4  11.77
projec;d       41t    ProojectodI          to      Projected'        AR/ic   Proj*c%d      rc I       Proj.dft       &cXt.    P,.ojd If"            ri
knme
lotIeret an lolot
curronej l*s,             265.787     220,371      330.710      237 ,95      402,6Sm     267.320      5112.51       W9o.713     "60.190      334.636                  873.?7
Interest an forw ign
currsncy ls                 2,097       1,619        5.2s2        3.We4        9,697       5.26.       14.203        7.843       19.80         9.072                    0.814
interat an degos.ts with
dr_gti c ba-s.             25,154      21,691       25.200       10,340       84.721       14.335      41.475       2 .49        45.06        81.52363                 23.860
Istereet.o as  crit,..        35.607      54.568       60.68e       28.902      01.000       42.910       "6,go0       53,405      107.025       74.236                   97.79
intergat an cal I teas        10,060       2.UIS        7,600        1,70         9. 12D       1.616      10.090        2.607       13.040        1.940                    1.48t
'oe I           1              ango"        iBo 142    M 201 29  5J 1 77   M1W4    zm                        mf9u1  4s.so  623L                                OIL=
Di,id.nds OD *n..t..oto           50         S01           S0           22           so         325           SO          750           50           44                       Bs
Fees and com.sa.on             3.036       4,911        3,946        7.125        S.10o      10.63        6.669       16,542        8.670       26.7n                    37,008
Other .scog                   18.031      34,273       13.945       51,4e6       15.026      61.116       16s.56       41.420       18.598       S0.380                   52.957
CFO"e  lr                 Sb?842    ss9.8e9        447-S21      S40m 6?5     S5?Stt      40S 448      age,         455.3 S29    8?2S es602.9191S
Interest on de.aoits         253.843    256.839       300.224      241,S41      385,103     244,275      479.574      236,910      595,353      289.992                  340.2C6
Interest on borroasneT
from 3WK/e' ItJPC           1.020       1,031        2.013        2,365        3.223       4,394        4.4145       5.7°         6,241        7.945                   11.111 2
Interest. an foreign borrowinsg  1.360     1.39         4.285        2.67        8.073        4.663       11.667        6.710       16,407        9.M9                     7.600
L     l     s      ~~~~~~2S4.54  25933      *14.         246.881      se62 299      U.&S1      4910         251A418      6l8.001      S07 029                   359 007       
Conteibution to Cr.d,t
Caraste F us                1,946       2,063        2.524        2.506        3.234       2.763        4.1"         3,197        5.424        3.62i                    4.016
amoral DIgn*,trat;v.
**smee                     90.927      87,777      109.312      109.294      130.575     131,048      160.490      143,330      196.968      155.862                  172.786
Other engaesa                  2,900       5.516        3,486        4,465       4.183       15.302        S,.020      30.269        6.024       SO.308                   24.901
lao iat                   352,S18    a4e.sSi       42e, 3U4       3S1"       f34 S§l     402.o4        us00        4924         1128         496ft 8|                 8Jf78
Plve si_ S for Proui*o bt n
l*ood                     5,816       2,937        5.835       3.997        7.102                     0 e .2   I,.0            12.334       2.549
lnro Slefors Tas
L.M      £08OM         12142         2,52        IlS       s    e o           Z        2L=          32J5    2eW615              45 418
Ta$                         S.145           7        6.435         L16         8.421          93       12,458        1,S32       17.111       15.749                   16.442
mat lnea                     &W       117j4l         L6 70?J"                 ZAH Z.4             2      -l0U4      24J0         A15174       1L                       28 j
la  Projgction at 6prgail of Logt 2144-KD



RSfl.UC OF WM
CrTIzea MATML SAW eLDA 214
B.  Proinctad and   -ml           ;lbsots- 1982-87
A of 81 Decembr            Proj;;d 32        Wtt       ProjactodL   M      ProiedL f    rtuFl   Projrctcdr                    N                   F-OCedT
Casb WA crsek               110,600    116f138     132,800     189.211     189 300     232.356     191,200     267.200     229 400     236 201                  S89 ?G9
Due freo  anlk of Korea     61.226      83,879      76,665      99,457      97,429     109.116     119.790      49,042     149.871     176.396                  217.055
Danceit, fraomther.
domast.c bfr               0063,0C0  45.462    130,000      57,502     10,000       43,982     182.000      82.961       191,00     84,787                  179.488
Fori;n currency dosits         SOO       4,443        900        6.699       1.500       6,104       2,500       2.182       4.000       4.162                    6,44S
shor.t to,.. loan, :
9ueinees loann           148.000    223.046     189,000     317,370     243.000     289,367     315,000     287.079     409.000     431,767                  609.681
Caneral populac. loans    226,000    197.368    249.000     252,974     307,000     809,893     391,000     344.1S1      505.000     454,426                 349,89S
ToeI Short-Tear Leans       374.00     4X20411     4    .      670.344     SW,         5SW.760     70600       681.2       92414       an, 8 9                  98
Securittes                   13,000     44,992     137,000      64,825     212,000     168,741     167,000     280,048     119,000     673,537                  74. 132
Call leon,                  43.000          -       52,000       4.763      62,000      10.388      74,000     139.276      89,000       9,312                   74,58
Current mstur,;tiG
SecurtiCes and deposits   314.000    341,300    393,000     381,783     491.000     348,872      18,000     328.019      768,000    405,460                  324.521
Term lonr.             1,180.997   1.112.108   1,871,824   1.202.751   1.737.868   1.420.805   2,228 908   1,521.611   2,841.656    1,425.751               1.00 .128
Other curront *ats          28,556    163.149       32,568     220,165      61,140     261,918      98,858     342,897     155.424     457,469                  691,431
Total Currant hAtM        2. ISIl  28,31,        2.764.757   278.E       3.5.7           3.201.9   4.383.,   3.634.1.56   5,,        4.359.                   5.287.
Madiur - /Lono-Terw Asets
Term loan.:
General populace         120.098    150,908     138,000     214.690     177.000     176.006     826 000     221.217     430.000     251.276                  398. 179
working Capital          169.449    132.221     196,000     187,064     211,000     219. 61     146.000     295,426     200.000      308.804                  306.458           Go
Domestic currency
equipment               24.000     883 S3      49.000      60.825      80.000      69,617     132,000      7S,717      188,000     126.709                  212,949
Forei;n currency equipment 33,037    20.039      61.808      32,597      93.005      43,346     128,117      56,881      186,391     66.257                   37.340
TotIJ  Term Ln-             346.579    41.691      44O         493.976     561,0S      508.620     7n2,117     648.891     9391        7S3046                   9S.26
Loe: Provisions for doubtful
loano                    (18,198)   (12,287)    (20,445)    (16.080)    (27,345)     (2.58o)    (36.278)     (2,861)    (47,808)     (3.180)                 (1.312)
NHa Ters Loon Portfol       3Sl.B1    3,29 44      424.        477.6       5,33,60     56.0        695.839     6460        936.5       749, 86953.614
Other medium-/long-term
aOaata                    49,828     45.639      63.882     68,082       74,899      79,597      85,907     118.940      98.707     111,088                  129.979
Fi *ad Awt*
Premisee and e4uipment (Not)  63,738    63,970      78.538     112,012      96,888     114,221     114,788     122,823     132,388     135,208                 146,997
IToagl .Aats              2.63.86  2.7702   3.33 .S40   3.92.            4.256.684   3.900.927   52790   4.521.949   6.636.          5.S.                    6.518.338
L;bj1 litie -   yit
'W,rct L eiVINt 'Ge
iMtual installment savings       -       3,028          -       18,322          -       19.205           -      17632            -      19,348                  21.161
Deamnd depoeits             299.000    486,827     374,400     678,908     475,800     809,308     888,000     839.673     731.900     034.588               1.286,119
Time snd savines deposits  1,161,700  1,063,419   1.465,000   1,015.835   1.885.000   1,014.027   2,295,000   1.276,517   2,846,000   1,673.939              2.114.955
Property formation savings
deposits                 81.000      33I.0      111,000      24.431     165.000      18,071     230,000      14,176     300,000      10.518                   6.907
Subrotl              1.541.7002 1.a86 624   1.9SO.404   1737196.  2. 525.690   1.B60.611   S.lO.O    2.157,009B          7      2 638 3633.42142



Short-,term borrovings        1,300     18.865       2,200      37.95s       3,000      52.967       4.000      62,614       5,600      73.299                 117.076
Current faturities
Dboelts                  267.500    538.737     314,960     486.424     393,020     670,703     479.8O0     723,815     5e90460      740,057                 PA4.242
terrosings                  997       2,916       2.824       7.034       s,368     1i,461        0"985      17,642       16.223     22 809                  is 425
Other current l iab l tite  175,000    164,029     228,000     229,426     296,000     326.476     385,OOo     404 .964    500 .000    516 798                 68.542
Total Current Liat i bilities  1f9Jl 2,11Z7    2A9!4.        2.498       3,223e    .9226298   a.987.7e    3.a67.          4.90,       3.992.2                 536-427
k.dium-P/on -Tern
liabilities
lKtUl insttallment
savings                263,600    264, 58     330,400     391,328     419,800     454.130     516,100      488s,63     645,800     513.128 I559.5
Time and eavings deposits  88,900    e6,843     111,140      59,021     121,480      69,566     153,800      7,25S3    197.540       144.434                 175,518
Propgrty formattion savings
deponito               138,100    217,799     173,100     306,194     199,900     294,104     240,800     341,478      816.800     415,773                 422,571
Total Term Deo7itt         490         549.        614         756.        741.180     807.0       91.200      908 b09   1.      0    1073                    1577
Borrowings
bfl                       18,000     12,779      23,000      18.888      35,000      21.113      49,000      21.939      63,000      22.280                  26,430
SIPC                        0oo           -         3 -           -         600           -       1,000           -       1,500           -                       -
Covernment                    -       2.720           -       S.OA3           -       6.063                   9.386           -       13,030                  16.120
ADS                       12.861      7.267      27.285      15.142      49,761      24.782     s5 550       285312      83,669      33.975                  1S,739
IbilD                    21.173      15 634      S7.347      22,853      48.612      28,025      78,475      39,937      96.278      47.117                  S8.366
Other,                        -           -           -           -           --
Totel term borrinown         47.134     a8.400     7L2          61 26      133          60.        187025       9977       244.44      16.40                    926SS
Leas: Current imturities       997      2,916        2,824       7,034       5,368      15.461       8.985      17,642      16.223      22.8e9                  18,425
Not term borrown            46.1        35.484      OS0 ,       s4  Bo 442 L6                      17B4         82.134     22.224       93-593                  742
Other long-term liabilities      -          -           -           -            -           -           -      27,330           -      13.704                  14.483
5SW.-037    584 6B4    6ss.74B     BSS         M69         872 S62 I2            1.018.1     2 309ig"    1.180.4
Porm|0tb orRt7tn                  3    4.5        53.e1A      S1.68       66          40 CSo      ss4t73      59 464      L28.ao       73.76                   93A69        
p7ti d-;tn Cap ito        40.000     37,623      50,000      45,247      60,000      s6,131      70,000      68,466      eo,ooo      82,223                   96,001
Captai7l suerpluist          71         71           71      29.661          71       6,103          71       6,103          71       6,103                   6,103
RM*rV* *"td rdut0i"d
7traingsn               23,761      2,B10      29,468     (2S. S")     36,937           3      45,2S1      122,740     5J¢so5     2n.374                    39,681
Tote I EAU itv            63 BS2     40-504      79.sao      SX S6       97          f2 5B      115 S0       87.2       in, 976     109.70                   141.785
TalWsh  tis#o           2.836   2.7M0 882    .aa1s         3.39LS2    4.2s6.6F    83s9w.Bw      5279.79    4.s21.949   6 6S62   6,56.42                     6 518 9al
La PrOojetio"te at appraisalt af Loan 2144-K0.



REPULIC OF KOFlA
C!tU£   MATnuL RA  [LOA  0144-40
ezoJEc com£r REP4R
C. Pr...ctad afd A?ia             Vatis. .
i sbinsa LUsJ LuLl   LMZJf LUZ                               L             ES         tUi LM                     MALMs                         J
Pra:;a         AcbiT  Proje;cte2,            Ato      jatLO    Acu I    rj P ojetd&             Acua   Pr, e;df      actalX Projectd eL    1-;
2-.8ss   2-770.8        3.9£21.      3.se2.5      4.25S.7      3.900.       5,S279.8     LO.e         a-.          5,35s6.4                 LaW
Short-term l1am                  874.0      420.4         480.0        s70.3        880.0        5s.8        7?06.0        631.2        914.0       686.2                     ss.8
adimloeptre loans               1 2.6    t,453.8          s 1816.810  1,66.:7     2.20.4       1.9294       2,061.0      2,170.S      8,eas.e     2.17U.a                   2,585.1
Deposit. * th oter banli         ' 1D117.    26.0n        108.g .1 1.l0             268.5        216.1        290.5        808.6       827.0        341.4                     375.5
= !A toe" tn I yetr               1,541.7   1,866.6       1,950.4      1,737.2      2.52.8      1,060.6      3,110.0      2,148.0      8,M7O.       2.63.4                   8 426.1
D    it. (ore than 1 year3         768.3       8?.09        929.6      1,243.0      1,184.2      1,478.6      1,890.0      1632.5       1,762.1     1,813.4                   2,012.0
n8mt /  Dowtent2 WPC              18.1       1.5           23.3         23.9         85.6         27.2         49.9         31.3         64.5        35.3                      43.6
ADO/DM                            84.0       22.9          84.6         88.0         90.4         52.8        187.0         68.4        179.9       S.1                       49.1
Eau i tv                   Ma          QJZLI                     ILl          2Lf          I=         "ILa           MZJLO                   ILZ1
ota  d bt;equity rati,a          40.2:1    67.4:1        40.9:1       6S.0:1       42.901       61.7:1       44.8:1       50. 8: 1     48.5:1      47.8:1                    4S.0:1
Lotero  debt/ratio Lk                      14.4:1                     13.S1                     10.1:1                     9.8:1                    9.1:1                     8.2:1
Current rtio L                   1.11:1     1.1:1        1.11:1        1.1:1       1.10:1        1.1:1       1.09:1        1.1:1       1.09:1       1.1:1                     111 '
I'm t im    ,,, 5 of Avoragg15.8               14.2          15.0         11.1         14.7         11.1         14.7         10.8         14.7        10. 7                     10.2
Financisa  *xpenea as 5 of
average total *asse               11.0       10.8          10.5          8.0         10.4          7.0         10.4          6.0        10.4          6.2                       6.0
oroes agreed (grown Incase-
financial ezpeoes"                  4.8       3.4           4.5          3.1          4.3          4.1          4.3          4.8         4.3          4.5                       4.2
Income before provisone a nd torn
as  e of average total asete       0.9          -           0.9            -          0 0         0.02          0.9         0.6           1.0          0.7                      0.8
Income  fter pr ions and taoo
as S of vrage total ase-t          0.2          -           0.2            -          0.2         0.02          0.2          0.6         0.3           0.3                      0.5
Incooe aftr provisions and taon
te S of ave        1 reequity      7.8          -           0.0            -          8.5          1.8         10.4        S8.1          12.2        14.1                      23.0
General administrative epeneen
s S of vere totlaset               3.9        3.6           8.7          3.6          3.4          3.6          3.4          3.4          3.3         3.2                       2.9
Cost of deposit. as S of average
dosit. outatanding                12.5       12.1          11.9          8.8         11.8          7.7         11.8          6.7        .1.8          7.0                       6.9
Coot af foreign currency debt as
S of averae foreign currnency
debt outatandin                    7.4        8.1           8.7          8.8          9.0         10.7         10.1         11.1         10.4        12.2                      11.7
Income froi bus-snee loan. as S
of averap" business leans
outstandIng                       16.7       14.0          16.3         11.6         16.3         11.3         16.3         12.2        16.3         11.8                      11.5
Book value as S of per value         160        1Oi           15S          114          162          111          165          128         167           83                       148
tncome frm populace loans as S of
average populace loan  out.tanding 16.7      14.8          16,3         11.7         16.3         11.4         16.3         11.7        16.3         11.7                      11.7
Incas. fro foreign currency
loans a S of average foreign
currency loans out.tanding         9.3        9.5          10.6          9.9         11.9         11.5         12.1         12.2        12.3         12.9                      13.5
Projections at appraisal of Lcon 2144-80.
i   Long-term debt * long-tars guarantee   current maturties   remunerated mutual instal lasent av ings - ineta lient savings received under the loans on installoent savigs - leons
covered with ties deposit., installment  avings depoait. mutual inatalleant sainegs deposit. and workiers' property formtion savings deposits to total unimpaired poid-in capital.
surplus and reserve..
LS Current asets * current maturities - remunerated mutual installment avings to  .irrent liabilities * current saturitiso - remunerated mutual installmnt sa.ings.



RSItSLIC OF  1A
CIteZS NATIDON4AL IMW (L    21440K2
PR0.iT COEtIDN RFAwR
D. Analris oSlane             ^r..- 1982-87
1982              tAbe          MW       Nube  J1984 n                      A MKWut                AN,9*6            1°87     t
Portfol io Status
Total loan. outstanding            752,909    1,874,210  829,152    2,267,071   894,198   2,528,185t  876,078   2,001,782   876,505    3.604.0eo  917.358    3.514.002
Lass: Out.atandlng loans in
*raco Period                   1.021      29,299     1,064       37,544     1,371       38,207     1,784       62,327    2,499       97,189     3.816      114,019
Loan* in fapayment stag.           761,888    1,844,911  828,088   2.229,527   892,827    2,489,978   874,294    2.739,045  873.006    2.967,821   913,542    3,400,313
Outstanding amount of loaso
affected by arrears              136,885      204,056   138,642      220,328   154,932      295.303   156.877      339.715   147,U8      365.719   13S5.96      409,468
Arrea D
Principal                         136,885      28.487   138,642       31,000   154.932       35 366   156.877       43.0565  147.128      46,009   135,596       47,823
Intarast                                        9.514                 10,190                  8,528                 8,117                  8,017                  9.863
Total reare                                    3Qq                    41.1         0         43 894        6         1, I7                 65                    5 06SIl
Loons affected by arrears a S
of total loan outataning                         10.9                    9.7                   11.7                   12.1                   11.9                  11.7
Total arrears as S of total
lo ns outstanding                                 2.0                    1.8                    1.7                   1.8                    1.8                    1.6
Total arre-rs of principal as S
of total loan  in ropayernt stage                  1.5                   1.4                    1.4                    1.6                    1.6                   1.4
Collaction rate (M)
Principal                                        96.5                   97.4                   97.7                   07.8                  97.9                   97.9
Interest                                         95.2                   95.9                   97.0                  97.6                   97.8                   97.0
RAehedulinoe and Write-offs
Loans rescheduled                    7,648       61,278    5,224        43,275    2,572        34,523    2,871       38,725     3,789       47.818    3.713        47,700
Lee"on   rittan off                                  20                    180                    302                    561                 1,211
Outotandin9 loans
Aeine g% Lqp ArH as af              Mabii                      anffeeted b. Trrears         Iotal Principal Arrear-
cntbe 0- 97,431                                         309,568                               29,105
3-6 msonths                     14,215                       52,273                               10.709
6-12 mnths                      10 713                       83,41S                                4,25?
Over 12 monthe                   18,287                      14.202                                8,752
l.n       .Canam1                                 80          39                      80122d to2 tb
ertSen for Colect;on              147        3,406       S46         896       290        5,174        46        2,512         2          Sol         3        1,359



R3L1C OF KO
CeIMMa NATIONAL BA( GaWaM  21 44Klt
E.   oi iaae P 26i             -7
Isturing dur.h                   -- ..- l                                              nc.9nI
FT~~s*~~Z~~t  P~    t  v,. tr6       Prns9 Ietr8    a-,I              "?.l96if"Tis9m                  Pni;ftM mt         
Equipmot gaw - ;^0* 3;e
curr.eny
196                         151      1I4        21.219   7.32         21,370    7 ,56    28.6         21 in.1.2    W 5    21.464        96.9      97.7 66.6
19 6                        242       170       23        8.127      24.15      8.297    82.48        28.722    8,016    31.728         96.2      96.6    90.6
1984                        677       *29       24.712   92:30        23,8819    9,659    35.248      24.712    9,830    84.042         96.6      96.6    96.6
198                       3,211       13S6      3501 12 ,1t6S        3 236,23    11,846    49889  2 85,012   11.299     7S9711          91        9.6    93 4
l9o6                      8.69        239       41.522  12.859        47.221   is.106    60.329       41 8      12 ,18  54,340          87.9      97.8    90.1
1907                      4.942       480       86 .170  19.907       41 ,112   20.437    61.649      86,170   19.776    55,946         88.0      96.6    90.9
Equipment loan in, foe.;g
cur rency                                                 4
196                           4         -94   1,687                     896     I 1,37     2.535         863    1,619      2.482        96.1      96.9    97.9
1963                         as        le        2,997   3,101        3,032    3,119       6.151       2.821    3.084      5.665        93.0      97.3    95.2
1964                        667       814        6,136   829          6,802    5.613    12.615         6.35      5299     11.484        90.2      91.2    90.6
1963                       1.619    1 063        10o086   6,092       1a87      9.1l5    21.080       10.:086    7.543    i'59          64.S7     82.4    83.7
1966                      4.059    2.103         13.854  11.012       17.913   18.118    31.028       18.8154    9,972    23.626        77.3      76.0    76.6
1987                      4,372    1.730        47.815   6.1991       51 ,687   10.771    62,547      47.315    9.314    56,62          91.5      86.5    90.7
working c,p.tat loan to ind.
1982                      7.702    3.891       851.267  64.226      380,969   88.117   447.06        349,719   85.099   484,618         97.4      96.6    97.3
1908                      9,250    8.018e      576,686   86.807     885,906    89,825   675.731      875.482   87.061   662.513         96.2      95.9    96.0
1964                     10.573    2.769       788,044  101.521     796,617  104,290   897.907       78,4    101.ol521   864,865        96.7      97.3    90.5
1985                     11,425    2.153       987,834  119.531      994,2S9  120.484  1,119.743     967.8304   116,947  1.106.76       98.9      98.7    98.8
1986                      10.084    1.6Gm     1.097,279  130.411    1,107,813  132.047  1.299.360    10097.279   180.920 1,226.207      99.1      99.2    99.1
1967                      11.776    1.909     1,257.0110  143,820    1,266800O  145,8509 1,414,817    1.257.030   143.167  1,400.197    99.       96.4    99.0
donor*# Pv,ulee ow.1
1982                      6.519    5.456       419.109  128,766     427,626   184.224   8I61.82      406.668  12. 916   536.564         956       95.3    95.
1988                      18,960    6.306      544,869  143.628      864529  149.986   713.465       548.595  142,906   686.501         96.5s     95.3    96.2
1964                     23.249    4,916       716.056 162.028      736,305  166,939   095,244       718,066  162.029   877.079         961.91    97.1    96.9
1965                     26,600    4,713       860,80  179.264      695,405  183.977 1.079,302       666.806  17",467  1,048.272        97.0      97.5   907.1
1966                     27.197    4,089       995,097 190,216   1,022,294   194,267 1.216,551       995,097  190,692 1,195.96 9O 7.3             90.3    97. 5
1987                     25,731    5,6441      930,011 212,416       956,742  218,062  1, 174,805    930.011  210.818  1,140,824        97.2      96.7    97,1
T"I19602                     16,376    9.491       792469 222.018       606,865  291.804 1,040,869      700,376  221,990  1,002.368        96.8       95.9q    96.8
1988                     26.467    9,514    1.146, 1W8  241.663   1,176,620  251,177  1.427,797   1.145.620  240.987  1.3816,607        97.4      95.9    97. 1
1964                     a5,866      .528    1,6826947 276.173   1,564,318  286,701 1,061,014   1,526,947  276,173  1.807.12            97.7      07.0    97.6
I985                     43,055    6.1117    1.901,707  316.865   1,944,762  824,9652 2,289,724   1.901.707  617.256 2.218,96*          97.0      97.6    97.8
1986                     46,989    8017    2.147,8  344,510o  2.194,741  882.827  2.547,268   2.147,76   344.610 2,492,862              97.9      97.6    97.8
1907              ~~~~~~~47,823    96   ,27,2634,1    231,49  894,77  2.713,128   2,270,82   868,070 2,653.596                   97.0       97,0    97.8



_ 133 -
6.    Status of Covenants
Section           Activity                              Remarks
LA 3.02     Provide due diligence in subprojects        Satisfactory
supervision, comply with procurement
procedures, provide subproject
information
LA 4.02     Purnish audited financial statements        Satisfactory
within five months after the end of
each fiscal year
LA 4.06     Maintain long-term Debt to Equity           Not in compliance
Ratio of 10:1 or better                     During 1982-1986
LA 4.09     Purnish information and exchange            Satisfactory
views on CNB's administration,
operation and financial condition



7. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
-----------.---------------------------------------------------__ -----------__ --------------------------------------
Stage of
Project Cycle                FY80         FY81        FY82        FY83        FY84        FY85         FY86        FY87        FY88        FY89       TOTAL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preparation                       _           -        3.4            _-                             -           -                             -         3.4
Appraisal                         -           -       34.4            -            -           -                                   -           -       34.4
Negotiations                      -           -        2.9            -           -            -           -           -           -           -         2.9
Lending Operations             1.7            -        7.9            -           -            -           -           -           -           -         9.6
Supervision                       -           -           -        9.7          8.2         3.3         1.2            -           -           -       22.4
Completion                        -           -           -           -           -           -         1.0            -           -        1.9          2.9
Administration                    -           -           -         0.6         0.2            -        0.4         0.6            -           -         1.8       >
TOTAL                      1.7         0.0        48.6        10.3          8.4         3.3         2.6         0.6         0.0          1.9       77.4



L. MISSIONS
jMonth/   INo. of   I            I                       |Performancel           I
Stage of Project Cycle   lYear         IPersons  I    Days I   Specialization   I  Rating   IProblems I
Through Appraisal           I   10181 |-    2-    | 2  --21 |Development Banking/I              2 IFinancial1
I          I          I          |Economics              I            I
I          I          I          I                       I            II
Appraisal through           1    3/82 |         1          7 IDevelopment Banking |             2 IFinanciall
Approval                 I          I          I          I                       I            I           I
I          I          I          I                       I            I          I
Board Approval through   I           _           I _                               - _  __
Effectiveness                                  I          I                       I            I          |
Supervisions                I          I          I          I                       I             I          I
Mission 1                 1   10/82 |         1 |        7 IDevelopment Banking 1             2 IFinanciall
Mission 2                 1   11/83 1         1 1       10 IDevelopment Banking 1             2 IFinanciall
Mission 3                 |    284 1          3 1       14 IDevelopment Banking 1             2 IFinanciall
Mission 4                 j   10184 1         4 1       19 IDevelopment Banking/l             2 IFinanciall
I          I          I          jEngineering            I            I          I
____________________.______________________________________________________________________________



