Document of
The World Bank   
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3281-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND LOAN
TO THE
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
April 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed -without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of January 31, 1982
US$1.00      =    Won 710 1/
W 1          -    US$0.0014
W 1 million  =    US$1,408
W 1 billion  =    US$1.41 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
BOK     -    Bank of Korea
CNB     -    Citizens National Bank
EPB     -    Economic Planning Board
KCGF    -    Korea Credit Guarantee Fund
KDB     -    Korea Development Bank
KFSB    -    Korea Federation of Small Business
KLB     -    Korea Long Term Credit Bank
MCI     -    Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOF     -    Ministry of Finance
NIF     -    National Investment Fund
SMI     -    Small and Medium Industries
SMIB    -    Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC   -    Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
SMIPF   -    Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
SSE     -    Small-Scale Enterprises
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/    During 1981, the rate ranged from W 665 in January
to W 700 in December.
kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Citizens National Bank (CNB)
Amount:                   $30 million equivalent
Terms:                    The proposed loan will bear interest at 11.6% p.a.,
with amortization to conform substantially to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable
to the specific investment projects financed out of
the proceeds of the proposed loan. The maximum
repayment period would be 14 years including
three years of grace.
Relending Terms:          CNB will relend the proceeds of the loan to sub-
borrowers at an interest rate 13.6% for a maximum
maturity of 12 years including a maximum of 3 years
of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be
passed on to subborrowers.
Project Description:      The proposed project represents continued Bank sup-
port for small-scale industries which are important
to Korea's objectives of regional dispersal of
industry, employment creation, and sustaining
growth in industrial exports via linkage between
small and large firms. Project objectives are:
(a) to assist CNB to move prudently toward term
transformation; (b) to upgrade CNB's term lending
capability at the branch level; and (c) to encourage
CNB to diversify its sources of foreign currency.
The proposed loan would be used to help cover the
foreign exchange requirements of subprojects to be
financed by CNB over the next two years.
The primary risk of the proposed project pertains
to the capacity of CNB to expand substantially its
term lending activities without jeopardizing the
quality of its portfolio. However, actions such as
training would substantially mitigate this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                 Bank FY        1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Disbursements:                               ----- $ million ----------
Annual          0.6   13.4   12.0    3.5    0.5
Cummulative    0.6   14.0   26.0   29.5   30.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 3820-KO dated April 19, 1982



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATiONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT''ION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SECUND LOAN
'10 THE CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
*   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
second loan to the Citizens National Bank with the guarantee of the Republic
ot Korea, for the equivalent ot $30 million. The loan wiLl bear an interest
rate of 11.6% per annum and will be amortized substantially in accordance
with the aggregate ot the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed by CNB out ot the loan proceeds. The maximum
repayment period applicable to subborrowers will be 12 years, including 3
years ot grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of Sec M80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The following paragraphs are based on this Report together with
updating intormation obtained during Bank missions in March/April 1981 and
November 1981. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
A. Past Pertormance
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, with heavy dependence on agriculture and a weak balance
ot payments, financed almost entirely by foreign grants. By the late 1970s it
had become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a strong external
payments position. During 1960-1978, GNP grew by 9% p.a., and per capita
income more than tripled in real terms. The manufacturing sector grew at
18% a year in constant prices, increasing its share in GNP from 14 to 27%.
At the same time the share of agriculture fell from 36 to 22%. Merchandise
exports, principally manufactured goods, rose from $33 million in 1960 to
$13 billion in 1978. The growth of exports was 27% p.a. in real terms and
exports in 1978 constituted 34% ot GNP, as against a mere 4% in 1960.
/1 This section is identical to the corresponding one in the President's
Report on the Technology Development Project (No. P-3017-KO dated
March 1, 1982), which was distributed under cover ot a memorandum dated
iMarch 8, 1982.



-2 -
4.         Rapid industrial growth, based on the expansion of export-oriented
manufactured goods, contributed to high rates of growth of employment. More
than 2 million jobs, constituting more than 40% of total additional
employment, were created in manufacturing during 1962-76, the years
corresponding to the first three Five-Year Development Plans. Unemployment
during these years declined from 8 to 4%, while real wages increased by more
than 7% p.a. The rising demand for labor in the industrial and urban sectors
caused heavy out-migration from the rural areas. Nevertheless, value-added
in agriculture grew at 4% a year, indicating a fairly good rate of
productivity growth in this important sector, which still employs more than
a third of the labor force.  This performance, combined with deliberate
government policies after 1968 to improve the agricultural terms of trade,
tended to ensure growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy. While there has been some worsening of income
distribution during the seventies, Korea compares favorably with most
developing countries and the ratio of the urban and rural population below
the poverty line is estimated to be under 15%.
B. Adjustment to the First Oil Crisis
5.         Between 1973 and 1978, Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of
growth (10% p.a.) and substantial external adjustment, despite a total depen-
dency on imports for its petroleum needs and the quadrupling of oil import
prices between 1972 and 1974. Among the policy instruments which contributed
to Korea's success in rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis
were: (a) devaluation in 1974; (b) continued emphasis on export diversi-
fication in products as well as markets; (c) restraint in wage increases; and
(d) an increase in public sector savings, mainly reflecting a strong tax
effort. Notwithstanding the recession in developed countries and growing
protectionism, the growth in export volume averaged 23% p.a. during 1974-78,
thereby contributing to the high growth momentum. In addition, increased
borrowing from abroad helped to maintain the rate of growth. The Korean
economy also gained from an improvement in terms of trade during 1976-78
(reflecting in part a decline in the real price of oil from the peak of
1974-75), and a spectacular growth in overseas construction contracts.
6.         However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy. With export volume
doubling, the level of real fixed investment also doubling, and the terms of
trade improving by 28% between 1975 and 1978, aggregate demand (consumption,
investment and exports) grew by an unprecedented 57%.  This rapid expansion
understandably created bottlenecks in the economy and created inflationary
pressures. In addition, aided by subsidized credit directed by the
Government through the financial system, the sharp growth in investment was
focused on the heavy and chemical industries. While this trend was in line
with the Government's view of the changing comparative advantage of Korean
industry, the investment in some key areas was excessive, leading to poor



-3-
capacity utilization, while in some other areas investment lagged. Also,
labor markets witnessed a major transformation in this period. Nonagricul-
tural employment expanded by 30% and employment in the construction sector
increased by 61%. At the same time, a significant part of the existing
construction work force went abroad to work on overseas construction
contracts. Reflecting the tightening of the labor market, money wages in
manufacturing increased by 33% p.a. during 1975-78, and real wages growth
(at around 18% p.a.) clearly outstripped the 10% annual growth in
productivity. The rate of growth of money supply and domestic credit also
accelerated. The resulting sharp rise in Korea's price level, compared with
its major trading partners, combined with exchange rate rigidity after 1974,
eroded export competitiveness. By the end of 1978, export volume was
showing signs of stagnating.
C. Developments in 1979 and 1980
7.        In order to tackle the problem of inflation and structural imbal-
ances, the Government announced in April 1979 a far-reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring. The general strategy was to follow tight
monetary and fiscal policies while initiating basic structural changes aimed
at giving greater play to market forces, further opening up the economy to
international competition, and providing direct assistance to the poor.
Specific measures included a reduction in the Government program of construc-
tion and rural housing, lower fiscal deficits, a sharp reduction in the
growth of domestic credit, a review of investment projects in heavy and
chemical industries, decontrol of prices of a large number of commodities,
vigorous pursuit of import liberalization, lowering of tariff rates on
necessities, and a program of direct assistance to the poor in order to soften
the impact of price decontrol. In the light of the above stabilization
program, the Government prepared a new Economic Management Plan for 1979-81,
scaling down the targets for growth, exports, and investment in the original
Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81) for these years, and allowing for a higher
level of foreign capital inflows than envisaged in the Plan.
8.        Unfortunately, however, the economic progra-.n embodied in the
Economic Management Plan was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks; and
during 1979 and 1980, the Korean economy experienced the most difficult period
e           in its recent history.  The oil price hikes in 1979 and 1980 raised Korea's
petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980
with the price-induced increase equal to nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In
October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief architect of Korea's
"economic miracle" since the mid-sixties was assassinated.  This was followed
by a period of the severest political uncertainty and social unrest in twenty
years (with the situation returning to normal only after the ascendancy of a
new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top
of these developments, the weather turned out to be unfavorable, resulting in
a drop in agricultural output of about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP.



-4-
Compared to the first oil crisis in 1974, the external shocks during 1979/80
were significantly larger, and this made adjustment considerably more
difficult than in 1974-75. The deflationary effects of these developments
on the economy were exacerbated by the effects of tight financial policies
dturing 1979-80, and by the weakened competitive position of exports owing
mainly to rising wage rates and (through 1979) exchange rate rigidity.
9.        As a combined result of the various adverse factors, the economy
went into a recession in the second half of 1979, which further deepened
during 1980. The real GNP growth was reduced by half to 6% in 1979, with
the seasonally adjusted GNP declining during the last two quarters of 1979.
GNP continued to decline during 1980, falling almost 6% for the full year.
While the slowing of real growth in 1979 mainly reflected a decline in real
exports (by about 4%), the contraction of real economic activity in 1980
reflected the fall in fixed capital formation (-15%) and in inventories and
consumption (-1%), which offset an improvement in exports (+10%). The
unemployment rate increased from 3.2% in 1978 to 5.2% in 1980.
10.       The rate of increase of wholesale and consumer prices accelerated
from 12% and 14% respectively in 1978 to 39 percent and 29% in 1980. A large
part of the price increase in 1980 was due to external factors, particularly
oil prices and devaluation of the won. The inflation resulting from domestic
factors reflected in part the reduction of government price controls in 1979
and increases in the administered prices of some food grains. To some
extent, the cost push pressures were accentuated by the tight credit policy
which raised interest costs to producers. Balance of payments developments
in 1979-80 were heavily influenced by the already-mentioned sharp increases
in oil prices and slowdown in growth of exports. The current account deficit
rose from $1.1 billion (2.3% of GNP) in 1978 to $ 4.2 billion (6.9% of GNP)
in 1979, and reached $5.7 billion (10% of GNP) in 1980, a level that could
not be sustained on a long-term basis.
11.       Although mid-1979 through 1980 was a most difficult period for the
Korean economy and the political situation was marked by considerable uncer-
tainty, the Government nevertheless succeeded in taking a number of major
policy initiatives which gave substantial impetus to the adjustment process.
Among these, the most important steps were the January 1980 devaluation of
the won, and the adoption in February 1980 of a flexible exchange rate
policy. The new policy involves adjustment of the value of the won from time
to time on the basis of a multicurrency basket, with other factors affecting
Korea's external position also taken into account. The won depreciated
vis-a-vis the US dollar by a total of 26.7% during the course of 1980 and
the real effective exchange rate in the fourth quarter of 1980 was 11% lower
than that in the corresponding quarter of 1979. Partly due to the exchange
rate depreciation, export volume which was stagnant in 1979 rose by 10% in
1980 and import volume, which rose by 9% in 1979, declined by 7%. The
reduction in imports in 1980 can also be traced to the fall in consumption



-5-
expenditure (due to a decline in agricultural incomes following the poor
crop and to a decline in real wages in the manufacturing sector) as well as a
decline in gross fixed investment (due to the slowdown in economic activity).
12.       With continued exchange rate flexibility, the process of adjustment
is expected to be carried further in 1981. The export volume is projected to
increase by 16% and import volume 10%, including extra-ordinary and tempor-
ary rice imports costing about $1 billion (4% of imports). The nonoil trade
surplus is expected to improve further to $2.8 billion, and excluding special
rice imports, to $3.7 billion. However, because of an increase in interest
payments by about $1 billion (rising to $3.2 billion), the current account
deficit in 1931 is projected to remain high at $5.5 billion, or about 8.5%
of GNP, of which 1.5 percentage points is due to the special rice imports as
a result of abnormal weather conditions in 1980.
13.       During 1980 and 1981 the Government has been following a policy of
wage restraint. As a result wages, adjusted by the consumer price index,
declined by about 5% in 1980 and are projected to decline by another 3% in
1981. Another of the major initial adjustments was in domestic energy prices.
The average price of petroleum products was increased by 225% between March
1979 and December 1980. In addition, the Government adopted a series of
measures in 1980 for the consolidation of investment programs, reduction in
agricultural subsidies, improvement in energy efficiency and improvement in
trade and foreign investment policies. The balance of payments impact of
these adjustments will, as discussed below, be largely felt over the medium
term.
14.       While substantial external adjustment has been obtained in 1980-81,
this has been associated with stagnation in the economy and a continuing
large current account deficit. There are signs of slow recovery in 1981,
and GNP is likely to grow by about 6%; but that would only offset the 6%
decline experienced in 1980. This situation indicates the need for
longer-term structural adjustment so that the external balance can be
improved consistent with restoration of growth momentum. The need for such
a program is heightened by the possibility that international interest rates
might remain high for some time and that real energy prices during the 1980s
may not decline as they did after the first oil crisis.
D. Medium Term Prospects
15.       The Government is in the process of finalizing the Fifth Five-
Year Plan which will cover the years 1982-86. The basic objectives of the
Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price
stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on (a)
economic stabilizatton, (b) export promotion and import liberalization,
(c) establishment of a competitive industrial structure, (d) promotion of
the market mechanism, and (e) expansion of social development expenditure.



- 6 -
The goal of price stabilization is to be pursued mainly through reduction
in budgetary deficits and reduction in the growth rate of the money supply.
Export promotion efforts will be helped by price stability as well as by
quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan also proposes a
program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve
price competitiveness. An important change in industrial policy during the
Plan period will be the reduction of the Government-s role in promoting the
so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be left
increasingly to the initiative of the private sector with the Government
only providing the general framework. For promotion of the market
mechanism, new legislation, designed to increase competition, has already
been enacted and the Government has started a program for liberalization of
the financial sector including denationalization of some of the commercial
banks. The Plan also proposes that relatively more government resources
will be allocated to meet the "basic needs" of people such as education,
housing, social security and improved sanitation and water supply.
External Capital Requirements
16.        At the last meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea, held in
June 1980, there was a consensus that in spite of the current difficulties,
Korea's longer-term prospects remained good. Among the sources of strength
for the economy are: a large investment base, the young, skilled and
rapidly growing labor force, the scope for exports of capital goods
including construction equipment, and the dynamism of its private sector.
It is generally recognized, however, that even with strenuous government
efforts for structural adjustment, Korea's balance of payments can improve
only over a period of several years. The current account deficit is
expected to be reduced from $5.7 billion (10% of GNP) in 1981 to about $3.6
billion (3% of GNP) by 1986 with the GNP growth rate reviving to 7.6% p.a.
during 1982-86. Allowing for debt service, export credits and addition to
reserves, the gross external capital inflows required during 1982-86 are
estimated to be about $9 billion per year, of which only 15% could be
expected from public sources (excluding Ex-Im banks but including the IMF),
and the rest from private sources.
17.       Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private banks, credits from Euro-dollar syndicated
loans and bond issues in the Korea-bond and Asian bond market, and is
expected to derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from
such sources. Nonetheless, the magnitude of these external capital
requirements is such that it will have to continue to rely on considerable
capital inflows from official sources. Servicing of the debt should not pose
difficulties given the present debt service ratio and the continuing emphasis
on export growth. The projected debt service ratio for medium and long term
debt is not likely to rise much above its current figure of 14% of the value
of exports of goods and nonfactor services.



-7-
PARI II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS /1
18.       As of March 31, 1982, Korea had received 59 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,b/5 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As ot that date,
$1,292.12 million remained undisbursed on ettective Loans and Credits,
mostly trom commitments in the past two years. On March 25, 1982 the
Executive Directors approved a $50.0 million equivalent Technology
Development loan and a $50.0 million equivalent Agricultural Wholesale
Marketing loan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA
Credits, and IFC Investments as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes, progress on project
implementation is generally satisfactory, however, delays in a number of
projects - mainly irrigation, highways and population - have occurred due
primarily to shortfalls in government budgetary contributions resulting from
cost overruns during a period ot high domestic intlation. The problem was
reviewed with the Government during 1981 and the Government subsequently
took measures to increase local funding of Bank financed projects. As the
Government's budgetary situation remains tight, the current status and plans
for counterpart contributions is one of the principal subjects for the
country implementation review to be held jointly with the Government later
this fiscal year. Despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate
remains the highest among major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
19.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining
a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.  20.         A substantial part of Bank financing has been
directed towards the vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four
major development banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received
$410.0 million, the Korea Development Bank, $352.5 million, and the Small
and Medium Industry Bank, $205 million in Bank loans for relending to
private industry, and the Citizens National Bank $30 million to meet the
financial needs of the small enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of
these loans have been the numerous industrial enterprises which have
received funds through the financial intermediaries. This has contributed
to the overall development of the industrial sector, and also to the
achievement of institutional improvements as well as the Government's
objective ot decentralizing industry.
/1 This section is substantially the same as the one in the President's
Report on the Technology Development Project (No. P-3017-KO dated
March 1, 1981), which was distributed under cover ot a memorandum
dated March 8, 1982.



- 8 -
21.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of
industrialization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back
to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing of
$432 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
the railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling
S334.5 million 'have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147.0 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a
steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of
Korea-s population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian
pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for the
improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155.0 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. In 1979, a $125.0 million loan was provided by the Bank
to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Hlan Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system. A $50.0 million Bank loan was approved in April 1981
for a Third Agricultural Credit Project.
24.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of $65.0 million for a second project for the development of the



- 9 -
region was approved by the Executive Directors iiu September 1979. A loan
for $90.0 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project.
25.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.
26.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures such as those described in Part I above. These measures are incor-
porated into a structural adjustment program for which a $250 million
structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
December 1981. The maturity of many of the Korean institutions suggests
that it would be appropriate to adopt a sector lending approach in some
areas along the lines of the loan for higher technical education approved in
1980 which will contribute to the modernization and improvement of the
system of higher technical education so as to increase its flexibility and
responsiveness to the changing requirements of the economy.
27.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for agricultural marketing and for
the further development of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected
provincial areas, which would enhance incomes and quality of life in the
lesser-developed regions of the country and would have a significant impact
on the problems of migration to the major metropolitan areas.
28.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, future Bank
lending will provide considerable support for this sector.
29.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1981 was about 10%, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time. These ratios are
expected to be around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.



- 10 -
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
30.       As discussed in Part I above, Korea's growth strategy has been
based on the expansion of industrial activity with emphasis on the promotion
of manufactured exports. In 1965 commodity exports totalled a mere $181
million of which manufactured exports accounted for just over half. By 1980
commodity exports had reached $17.2 billion, 90% of which consisted of manu-
factures. Although Korea's export pattern has continued to display a high
degree of reliance on a few labor-intensive traditional exports (textiles,
clothing, footwear, plywood and certain miscellaneous manufactures), there
has also been a discernible movement in the direction of more sophisticated
skill-intensive products. Items such as electrical machinery, machine
tools, electronic goods and components, and transport equipment (including
ships), have been added to Korea's range of exports. At the same time, the
pursuit of backward linkages, usually from export products, has enabled
domestic production to replace imports in certain sectors, notably in
particular segments of the basic metal, petrochemical and machinery
industries.
31.       The transition from labor-intensive manufactures towards pro-
ducts requiring higher levels of technology and labor skills, however, has
been pursued too abruptly and has led to overinvestment in heavy and
chemical industries at the expense of the light manufacturing sector. With
overinvestment in heavy industries, demand for skilled labor has sharply
increased and the consequent increase in labor costs has outpaced produc-
tivity gains. With underinvestment in light industries, the level of
productivity and technology in the Small and Medium Industry (SMI) sector,
including Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE), has remained stagnant in the face of
a shortage of skilled labor, high rates of labor turnover, and rising labor
costs; and all these factors have resulted in the erosion of SMI firms'
domestic as well as international competitiveness. Current SMI sector
policies embodied in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development
Plan (1982-86) call for enhancement of efficiency of SMIs through: (a)
expansion and strengthening of technical and managerial extension services
to SMIs; (b) promotion of specialization and vertical integration of
small-scale component producers with large industries; (c) encouragement for
selected financial institutions to provide venture capital in support of
technology intensive small firms; and (d) expansion of financial assistance
to SMIs for modernization of their facilities.
32        In the Korean manufacturing sector, small-scale enterprises (SSEs)
are defined as those enterprises employing less than 100 workers. SSEs
consisted of over 28,000 firms in 1979, which accounted for nearly 89% of all
manufacturing establishments, 27% of manufacturing employment and 18% of
value-added. Exports (direct and indirect) by the SMI sector (including
SSEs) represented over 35% of total manufactured exports in 1979/80. The
SSEs are prominent in wood products, particularly sawmills, paper products



- 11 -
and textiles. In addition SSEs are becoming increasingly important in
machinery and metals, where backward linkages to the heavy machinery
industry are growing. Like other economic activities, the SSEs tend to be
concentrated in Seoul and Busan; however, Government efforts, such as
financial assistance for the relocation of industries and promotion of new
industrial estates in secondary cities, are beginning to result in redistri-
bution of SSEs away from Seoul and Busan. For instance between 1977 and
1979 the proportion of the total value added by SSEs in regions other than
Seoul and Busan increased from 55.9% to 58.3%.
33.       In 1981 there were 9 insitutions with approximately 515 registered
extension agents providing technical assistance services to SMIs. These
agents were supplemented by 630 registered technical specialists, mostly
college professors and accountants. However the SMIs were insufficiently
serviced because of inadequate number of, and training facilities for,
extension agents and lack of coordination among the institutions and
agencies providing the technical assistance. The Government established a
Coordinating Committee for Extension Services to SMIs in 1981, consisting of
20 representatives fromn various Government and financial institutions and
research institutes. The Committee meets quarterly to plan, coordinate and
evaluate important matters relating to the provision of extension services.
The Committee developed new guidelines for extension services which began
addressing these deficiencies, except for the inadequate coordination which
has persisted. Under the Fourth Loan to SMIB (Loan 2004-KO of July 16, 1981)
the Government undertook a review of the institutional arrangements for
delivery of extension services to SMIs, which was completed in December 1981.
As an outcome of this review, the Committee adopted, in January 1982, an
action Plan involving the reduction of the number of extension agencies to
five (including CNB) and created a working group of the five agencies to
coordinate the provision of extension services (see para. 50). The Bank
will work closely with the Government to continue to improve extension
services to SMIs in the context of this and future projects.
34.       Alongside the two government-owned specialized banks (CNB and
SMIB) which assist the SMI sector, commercial banks, short-term finance
companies, foreign commercial bank branches, leasing companies and the Korea
Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) all provide varying degrees of financial support
to the SMI sector. In practice, only the commercial banks (nationwide and
regional) have substantial lending operations to the SMI sector because of
their large resource base. With 62% of all SMI loans outstanding as of May
31, 1981, the aggregate SMI loan portfolio of commercial banks was nearly
twice as large as that of SMIB and CNB together. The Government has used
its regulatory powers to direct credit at specified (sometimes subsidized)
interest rates to SMIs. For instance, commercial banks are presently
required to direct 35% (for national banks) and 55% (for regional banks) of
the increase in their loan portfolio to the SMIs. As a result of these and
other measures taken over the last 4-5 years, aggregate flows of institu-
tional finance to SMIs increased substantially, but the great bulk of this
was short-term. The share of long-term equipment finance in the total



- 12 -
institutional finance to SMIs (12.5%) still remains insufficient, relative
to working capital finance. SMIB, with 66% of all equipment loans out-
standing as of May 31, 1981, and CNB, with 8% are the major sources of
long-term equipment loans for the sector. Equipment lending is particularly
important because it is only through capital investments that SMIs can
modernize their facilities, improve their productivity and maintain their
market shares.
The Bank's Role
35.       In the past, the thrust of the Bank's industrial lending strategy
for Korea has been to promote strong development finance companies (DFCs)
capable of acting as efficient financial intermediaries. To date the Bank
has provided about $997 million to the Korean industrial sector through the
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB), the Korea Development Bank (KDB), the
Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), and the Citizens National Bank (CNB).
Eight Bank loans (totaling $410 million) to KLB and four loans (totaling
$352.5 million) to KDB have been for onlending to large-scale industry.
Four Bank loans (totaling $205 million) to SMIB have been for financial
assistance to small and medium enterprises. A Bank loan of $30 million to
CNB in 1980 was to cover the very small end of the SMI sector.
36.       The major objectives of Bank lending through DFCs in Korea in the
past have been:  (a) resource transfer to provide the foreign exchange
resources needed for industrial development; (b) support of the Government's
industrial strategy, including promotion of balanced growth through regional
development, employment generation, export orientation, technological
upgrading, and skill development; and (c) strengthening the institutional
base for efficient financial intermediation. The first two of these objec-
tives remain important, but the Bank's institution-building role has been
largely completed in the case of KDB, KLB and SMIB, which are mature insti-
tutions, though more needs to be done to strengthen the institutional capa-
city of CNB. The significant maturity attained in the Korean financial
sector, partly as a result of the Bank's assistance in strengthening insti-
tutional capabilities, coupled with the Government's willingness to address
directly industrial and financial sector issues has made it possible for the
Bank to shift its lending objectives from institution-specific issues to
broader sectoral issues.
37.       The recent Bank loans to KDB and KLB were predicated on such a
broad-based macroeconomic approach. The two loans provided a vehicle for
discussing with the Korean Government the blueprint for a major reform of
the financial sector aimed at liberalizing the operations of financial
institutions. It is expected that the reform will ultimately improve
the responsiveness of the financial system to the requirements of Korean
industry and will help improve investment efficiency. The Bank's dialogue
with the Government on financial sector issues, which will continue in the
context of planned future financial sector loans, has been proceeding in



- 13 -
parallel with a dialogue on the Government's development strategy for the
industrial sector. Such development strategy aims to bring about the
structural adjustments necessitated by the changing environment in which
Korean industry operates.  The Bank is supporting the implementation of
thiis strategy through the Bank's structural adjustment loan (Loan 2071-KO).
38.       The Bank also is assisting the establishment ot new service
institutions for private industry, especially the more skill intensive
industrial enterprises which are expected to provide the main impetus tor
export growth in the 1980s. In support of this latter objective, the Bank
approved a loan to the Korea Technology Development Corporation in March
1982 to help finance domestic research, development and engineering projects
originating from private industry and has appraised a project in support of
the Korea Production Technology Corporation (KOPTEC), a technical assistance
agency set up in 1981 under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to provide
shop-floor advice and guidance to machinery industries. Furthermore, IFC
assistance is underway to Korea Technology Assistance Corporation, incor-
porated in 1974 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Korea Advanced Institute of
'Iechnology (KAlST) with the primary objective ot commercializing production
technology developed by KAIST.
39.       The first Bank loan to UNB (Loan 1829-KO of May 7, 1980) is about
65% committed. The pace of commitment has been picking up rapidly in recent
months and the loan is expected to be fully committed by September 1982. CNB
has performed well under the first loan in utilizing Bank resources to finance
very small economically viable projects. The Bank's institution-building
ettorts under the first loan have been primarily tocussed on strengthening the
CNB department which handles foreign currency loans. Although this objective
has been satisfactorily met, more needs to be done to strengthen the
insitutional capacity of CNB before bringing CNB under the aegis of the
planned financial sector loans. First, CNB's term lending capability should
be upgraded at the branch level. Second, CNB would need to move gradually
towards transformation of a portion of its substantial short-term deposits
into medium- and long-term assets (i.e., term-transformation) in order to play
a more meaningful role as an allocator of resources within the Korean economy.
And third, CNB should be encouraged to diversify its sources of foreign
currency resources which have so far been limited to the Bank and the Asian
Development bank (ADB). The proposed project is intended to address these
issues as well as to help CNB augment its longterm toreign currency resources
in support of the modernization and greater efficiency of production in the
SSE sector.
PAKT IV - THE PROJEC'T
40.       The project was appraised in October/November 1981, and negotiations
were held in Washington between March Z3-Zb 198Z. The Korean delegation
was led by Mr. Wei Sung Yong (Economic Counselor, Korean Embassy).



- 14 -
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on the Citizens National Bank"
(No. 3820-KO dated April 19, 1982) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
41.        CNB's Role Within the Financial System.  The Citizens National Bank
(CNB) was established in December 1962 to meet the financial needs of the
general populace and small enterprises, and to mobilize household savings.
CNB is 65.6% owned by the Government and the remainder is owned by five
commercial Banks and private investors. Under the CNB Act, CNB is empowered
to carry out all activities normally carried out by a commercial bank and to
serve small industries as a specialized bank. Of the specialized banks, CNB
and SMIB are limited, by their respective Acts, to the financing of SMIs.  CNB
concentrates on small enterprises employing up to 100 persons while SMIB is
authorized to finance enterprises employing up to 300 persons. CNB stands out
in the Korean financial system as the largest mobilizer of deposits, with its
total deposits accounting for nearly 11% of aggregate deposits of the banking
system. Unlike commercial banks and other specialized banks, CNB's dependence
on borrowed funds (from BOK, Government and foreign sources) has been
negligible and CNB has been basically dependent on its deposit resources.
With its already large resource base and extensive branch network, CNB appears
particularly well placed to serve SSEs effectively.
42.        CNB's Legal Framework, Organization and Management.  The CNB Act of
1962, the relevant Enforcement Decree, and CNB's Articles of Incorporation set
out the broad framework for CNB's operations, policies, organization and
capitalization. As a specialized financial institution, CNB is subject to the
supervision of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). As a banking institution, CNB
is also subject to the supervision of the Bank of Korea with respect to its
commercial banking activities.
43.       Management of CNB is entrusted to a full-time Board of Directors
comprising the President, Deputy President and five Executive Directors.
Mr. Byoung Soon Song was appointed President on July 30, 1980, following a
long and successful career in Government and Banking. The five Executive
Directors are each in charge of three to four of CNB's 19 departments. The
present top management team is effective and innovative. Since the new team
assumed office, several organizational reforms, involving foreign currency
lending as well as training programs have been introduced to streamline and
improve CNB operations. CNB has an experienced and well-rounded cadre of
managers at the department and branch levels. Most of them have served as
managers in several departments and branches as a result of relatively
frequent rotation.
44.        CNB's head office in Seoul currently consists of 19 departments.
CNB has 181 branch offices and 16 deposit offices widely scattered all over
Korea. As of August 31, 1981, CNB's staff totalled 8,109, of which 6,613 or
82% were assigned to the branch offices. Staff turnover has been low (3-5%
in 1979-81). Term lending based on project appraisal is relatively new to
CNB and to most of its professional staff. Recognizing this, CNB started



- 15 -
offering intensive training for branch staff on term lending techniques in
1981 and has recently developed a comprehensive trainling program for
1982/83. Details of CNB-s training program, particularly those related to
strengthening of CNB-s term lending capabilities, have been reviewed and
found satisfactory. The Bank-s Economic Development Institute (EDI) has
provided assistance in getting the program underway.
45.       Operating Policies and Development Strategy.  CNB-s medium-term
developmental objectives are spelled out in its draft Statement of
Development Strategy for 1982-86. CNB-s Development Strategy Statement
calls for expanding its term lending activity for SSEs and for lengthening
the maturity of its domestic currency equipment loans through prudent term
transformation in accordance with its five-year operational/financial pro-
jections which have been reviewed by the Bank. In addition it calls for an
increase in CNB's paid-in capital by W 10 billion a year from 1982 onwards
up to W 100 billion and for diversification of its foreign currency resour-
ces during 1984-86. CNB-s Development Strategy, the contents of which are
satisfactory to the Bank, was approved by CNB-s Board on April 10, 1982.
Any change in the Strategy Statement would be made only after consultation
with the Bank (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Term Lending Procedures.  CNB-s own efforts, together with the
consultation process involved in the Bank's approval of subprojects, has
resulted in initial major improvements and the gradual refinement in project
appraisal for foreign currency term loans. Systematic project evaluation is
now routine. Full appraisal reports, including economic rate of return
analysis, are prepared for subloans above the free limit and less detailed
reports are prepared for those below the free limit. The quality of these
reports is satisfactory. So far, appraisal of subprojects has been central-
ized at the Head Office to ensure the quality of subloans, but this central-
ization at the same time has sharply limited the number of subprojects CNB
can handle. CNB, however, plans to delegate in 1982 the authority to
approve subloans up to $100,000 to a limited number of large branches whose
staff underwent intensive training in 1981. This move represents the first
step toward expanding CNB-s term lending capacity and disseminating more
sophisticated term lending techniques within CNB.
47.        CNBBs collection performance is excellent and loan supervision is
quite effective. CNB-s foreign currency loan portfolio amounting to less
than $10 million for 65 subprojects as of June 30, 1981, has so far been
supervised by four staff in the Head Office. However, as indicated above,
CNB plans to delegate supervision responsibility increasingly to branch
staff and has formulated suitable guidelines to facilitate this process.
Also, CNB is considering the introduction of a suitable subproject
monitoring system which would enable it to assess actual benefits derived
from subprojects and compare them with appraisal projections. Specific



- 16 -
measures taken by CNB in strengthening its subproject supervision capability
and progress being made in developing a subproject monitoring system have
been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.  CNB has been informed
that, in the course of Bank supervision, particular attention will be given
to the effectiveness of the subproject monitoring system.
48.       CNB's procurement procedures are satisfactory and conform to the
Government's guidelines and to the special requirements of small firms.
Procurement is normally based on limited ccompetitive bidding procedures with
at least three quotations from potential suppliers. CNB's procedures for
inviting quotations, bidding and contract awards are satisfactory. CNB's
control over disbursements for subprojects is also satisfactory.
49.       CNB's Operations.  CNB provides a wide range of financial services
to its clients. These include: a complete package of deposit account ser-
vices; credit card business; loans to the general populace for financing
housing, hospital and educational expenses; and provision of finance to SSEs
for working capital and for acquisition of equipment and other fixed assets.
CNB's loan portfolio comprised over 440,000 clients (including about 49,000
SSE clients) as of June 30, 1981. Total outstanding loans amounted to W 996
billion ($1.4 billion), of which 49% were for general populace loans, 46%
for working capital loans and 5% for equipment loans. Local currency equip-
ment loans, which represent 86% of the total equipment loan portfolio, were
basically extended on a short-term basis with average maturity of 1.5 years.
Reflecting the high turnover of the existing portfolio (because of its short-
term nature) and the relatively small annual lending volume, CNB's domestic
currency equipment loan portfolio has not grown as fast as could have been
expected. In order to better meet the demand for equipment financing in the
SSE sector, CNB needs to increase substantially its domestic currency
financing while also lengthening the maturities of such loans.
50.       CNB regularly compiles and analyzes data on conditions of small-
scale industry in Korea, and undertakes studies on the demand/supply condi-
tions in certain subsectors. Even though CNB is still developing its capa-
bility in subsector studies, these studies could be incorporated in CNB's
appraisal work. Hence, the Bank has reviewed CNB's plan to strengthen its
research activities and measures to integrate the results of its sector
surveys in its appraisal work. While both the plan and specific measures
discussed were found to be sensible, CNB was informed that progress and
efforts made by CNB in this area would be monitored in the course of normal
Bank supervision.  In addition to making loans to SSEs and households, CNB
provides limited extension services to its SSE clients. Based on the recent
study on the national extension services, the Government has designated CNB
as one of five extension service agencies in Korea. Given the increasing
importance of CNB as an extension service agency, CNB's plan for delivering
extension services to SSEs and the adequacy of its institutional capability
to deliver the planned services have been reviewed by the Bank and found to
be consistent with its expected role, which is to provide extension
assistance to its SSI clients who have no access to the services of other
agencies.



- 17 -
51.       Efficiency in Resource Allocation.  CNB's performance in
allocating resources has been generally satisfactory from the viewpoint of
its developmental impact and of its support of government objectives in the
SMI sector (see para. 31). CNB's commitments of equipment loans continue to
have a broad sectoral distribution and its financial assistance to small
machinery industries has steadily increased since 1979. CNB has also
achieved reasonable success in diversifying the geographic distribution of
its operations. The share of commitments to projects in Seoul City has
gradually declined from 57% in 1978 to 43% in 1980 and further to 41% in the
first half of 1981, reaching the goal, agreed under the first Bank loan, of
limiting to 50% the share of Seoul in its total lending. CNB-s performance
in this area will continue to be monitored under the proposed loan (Section
2.02(a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). CNB's support of smaller SSEs is
reflected in the fact that 87% of CNB's equipment loans were channelled to
very small firms employing 5-50 workers during the 18 months ended June 30,
1981. CNB's performance in terms of employment creation has also been
satisfactory. Ninety-one Bank-financed projects are expected to generate
2,114 new jobs, at an average capital cost per job of $9,600, which is
considerably lower than the average for projects of SMIB ($17,400), KLB
($45,800) and KDB ($35,000). Fourteen of the 91 project clients planned
export sales of at least part of their production; taeir aggregate foreign
exchange earnings are expected to be about $15.5 million annually.
52.       Efficiency in Resource Mobilization.  As of June 30, 1981, CNB had
mobilized total resources of W 1,641 billion ($2.4 billion), of which
W 1,613 billion ($2.3 billion), or nearly 98%, were in local currency.
Deposits mobilized accounted for 95% of its total resources. About 78% of
CNB-s deposits are short-term. The steady growth (at an average annual rate
of 30% since 1970) and stable nature of its deposits would enable CNB to
move prudently towards term-transformation of a portion of its large deposit
resources. Foreign currency resource mobilization started only in 1979 when
ADB granted its first loan of $10 million to CNB, which was followed subse-
quently by an IBRD loan of $30 million in 1980 and a second ADB loan of
$30 million in 1981. Although CNB has been successful in mobilizing
increasing amounts of foreign currency resources entirely from ADB and IBRD,
alternative sources need to be identified and developed to support its
increasing level of foreign currency lending (see para. 55).
53.       Financial Position and Performance.  As of December 31, 1981,
CNB-s total assets stood at W 2,020 billion ($2.8 billion). Liquid assets
accounted for nearly 35% of total assets and short-term loans (including
current maturities of term loans), for 48%. Most of the remaining term
loans (net of current maturities), which represented 13% of total assets,
are expected to fall due within two years, indicating a bias towards
short-term assets. Despite having a large proportion of short-term debt,
CNB-s liquidity position continues to be comfortable with the current ratio
of 1.1:1. CNB's equity base increased from a mere W 11 billion (or 1.3% of
total assets) in 1978 to W 53.8 billion (or 2.7% of total assets) in 1981
mainly as a result of a W 25 billion increase in paid-in capital in 1979.
Consequently, long-term debt/equity ratio as defined under the first Bank



- 18 -
loan to CNB (which excludes current maturity of long-term debt) declined
from 14.4:1 to 4.7:1, well within the limit of 7:1 agreed under the first
loan. The definition of CNB's long-term debt under the proposed loan would
be revised to include the current portion of long-term debt with a new
ceiling of debt/equity ratio of 10:1, to make it consistent with those
related to the previous Bank loans to the other DFCs in Korea (Section 4.06
of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government has undertaken to participate
in increases in CNB's share capital to ensure that the 10:1 debt/equity
ratio is met (Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement). CNB's assets are of
exceptionally good quality. The level of arrears on CNB's loans accounted
for 1.3% of total loans outstanding as of June 30, 1981; loans affected by
these arrears was 17%. Collections of principal accounted for nearly 95% of
total collectibles in the first half of 1981. CNB's net income grew nearly
sevenfold from W 2.1 billion (about $3 million) in 1979 to W 14.6 billion
(about $20.6 million) in 1980.  Return on average total assets rose from a
mere 0.2% in 1979 to 1.1% in 1980; return on average equity from 9% to 35%
in 1980. In 1981, CNB's net income before taxes and provisions was W 14.3
billion (about $20.2 million). So far CNB has enjoyed income tax holidays
but will have to pay income tax beginning in 1982.
54.       Business and Financial Prospects.  CNB's overall lending opera-
tions are projected to grow at an annual rate of 30% during 1982-86. This
rate of growth is generally in line with the recent record and reasonable
given the growing credit needs of household and SSE sectors. CNB's domestic
currency equipment loans, which totalled about W 100 billion ($141 million)
during 1977-81, are projected to grow by 30-40% p.a. and reach W 377 billion
(or about $494 million) during 1982-86. CNB's foreign currency loan commit-
ments would total about $275 million during the period 1982-86 compared with
$70 million during 1977-81. CNB's success in meeting the projected level of
operations, especially for domestic currency equipment loans, will depend
primarily on its ability to undertake prudent transformation of its deposits
into long-term loans and institutional strengthening at the branch level.
It is proposed that the average maturity of CNB's domestic currency equip-
ment loans gradually be lengthened from 1 1/2 years to about 5 years.  The
term transformation that this would require is feasible considering CNB's
stable deposit base and steady growth record, the variable interest rate
regime in Korea, CNB's access to the Bank of Korea's (BOK) "lender-of-last-
resort" facility, and the abolition in January 1982, of domestic lending
guidelines for CNB, which had effectively encouraged CNB to make short-term
loans. It is expected that a portion of deposits with maturity over one
year will be transformed into long-term loans so as to achieve average
maturity of equipment loans of 2-3 years in 1982 and 1983, 4 years in 1984
and 5 years thereafter. The cumulative effect of this proposal is reflected
in the projected substantial increase of CNB's domestic currency equipment
loan portfolio (over five-fold increase during 1982-86). Accordingly,
CNB would review its term lending operations for SSEs for each year
starting with 1982 together with CNB's projections for the following year,
and on the basis of such review and consultation with the Bank, determine
the level of term transformation for the following year. As a result of
current projections of term transformation, CNB's current ratio will fall



- 19 -
slightly below 1.1:1 (to about 1.09:1 in 1985 and 1986), which is the
minimum current ratio agreed between CNB and ADB after 1984. Therefore,
this limitation would be taken into account in determining the level of
term-transformation for each year. Termination of income tax holidays from
1982 will significantly affect CNB-s after-tax profits. While income before
provisions and income tax is projected to increase steadily from W 14.3
billion ($20.2 million) in 1981 to W 44.5 billion ($56.3 million) in 1986,
after-tax income will drop from W 7.1 billion ($10 million) in 1981 to W 4.6
billion ($6.5 million) in 1982 (because of income tax amounting to over 50%
of before-tax profits), but thereafter would gradually increase to W 15.2
billion ($19.2 million) in 1986. The interest coverage ratio would remain
at a satisfactory level throughout the projection period.
55.        CNB's domestic currency resources will continue to be derived
largely from deposits and most of the projected equipment loans will have to
be funded by CNB-s deposit resources through term-transformation.  On the
foreign currency side, CNB would need to raise $250 million for term lending
during 1982-86 in addition to the $46 million available at the end of 1981.
CNB expects that borrowings from the Bank would account for 56% and those from
ADB for 36%. The remaining gap of 8% of CNB-s foreign currency resource
requirements will most likely have to be met through tapping foreign commer-
cial or bilateral sources of funds. However, in light of the current unfavor-
able terms prevailing in the foreign commercial market and the fact that CNB
caters to the very small enterprises whose financial needs would be better met
by fixed interest rate loans than floating rate loans, CNB hopes to cover its
anticipated gap in foreign currency resources primarily from bilateral
sources. In view of the longer-term importance of CNB's broadening its
sources of foreign exchange resources, CNB's plans for initiating foreign
commercial borrowings have been reviewed with the Bank and its Statement of
Development Strategy for 1982-86 reflects its intention to make best efforts
to tap foreign commercial funds during the period 1984-86. Encouraged by
the Bank, CNB has already started establishing initial contacts with foreign
commercial lenders beginning with Japanese long-term credit banks.
Main Features of the Loan
56.        As with the last Bank loan to CNB, the proposed loan would be used
to finance (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported goods
and services; and (b) 60% of the cost of goals domestically procured or
manufactured, representing the estimated foreign exchange component (Section
2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). At least 50% of the proposed loan
would be used to finance SSEs employing no more than 50 workers or with
total assets below W 250 million in order to ensure access of the smallest
firms to Bank funds (Section 2.02(a)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).  At
least 50% of the Bank funds would be allocated to subprojects outside of the
city limits of Seoul (Section 2.02(a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). CNB
would calculate the economic rate of return for all subloans above the



- 20 -
free limit (Section 2.03(a) (i) of the draft Loan Agreement). The free
limit would be raised from $250,000 under the first Bank loan to $300,000 to
take into account increased project costs due to inflation (Section 2.02(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The free limit would be subject to periodic
review to ensure that the Bank reviewed an appropriate number (about 15) of
subprojects. Given the increasing prices of the capital goods and growing
demand for machinery and equipment by technology-intensive small enter-
prises, the ceiling on individual subloans would be set at $500,000 under
the proposed loan compared to $400,000 under the first Bank loan (Section
2.02(a)(iii)(B) of the draft Loan Agreement). A maximum long-term debt/
equity ratio of 10:1 would be maintained (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Eligibility of subborrowers would be in terms of maximum
employment (100 employees for industrial, mining and transportation firms
and 20 employees for construction and service firms) (Section 2.02(a)(iii)(A)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The proposed loan would have an adjustable composite amortiza-
tion schedule reflecting the aggregate of the repayment schedules of the
individual subloans made by CNB (Section 2.09(a)(i) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The proposed loan will be fully repaid within 14 years
including a grace period of 3 years. Maximum subloan maturity will be 12
years including a maximum grace period of 3 years (Section 2.09(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement); average subloan maturity and grace period would be
around 8 years and 2 years respectively. CNB intends to onlend the proceeds
of the proposed loan at an interest rate of at least 2 percentage points
above its own borrowing rate with the full foreign exchange risk to be
passed on to the subborrowers (Section 2.09(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
This is in line with the general practice of development finance
institutions in Korea of relending the proceeds of foreign exchange
borrowings from international sources. Based on the Bank's lending rate of
11.6% p.a., the nominal onlending rate to subborrowers would be 13.6% p.a.
In addition, CNB intends to charge subborrowers a one-time fee of 1.5% of
the subloan committed to them and a commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% p.a. on the
undisbursed portion of the subloan committed to them. The 2.0% interest
spread is adequate to cover the cost incurred by CNB in processing subloan
applications and supervising subprojects. The domestic inflation rate is
projected at 14% in 1982 and 11% in 1983. While the effective foreign
exchange risk assumed by subborrowers under the proposed loan cannot be
quantified in advance, it is expected to bring the effective cost of Bank
funds to a level which is positive in real terms and comparable to the
domestic currency lending rate of 16.5-18% p.a.
Project Benefits and Risks
58.       Export-led manufacturing growth, which is the key thrust of the
development strategy, calls for the improvement of productivity and effi-
ciency of Korean industry (including SSEs) in the face of increasing



- 21 -
competition in the world markets. The greater availability of equipment
finance to SSEs is crucial because it is through capital investment that
SSEs can modernize their facilities and operations, thereby improving their
productivity and competitiveness. The Government is also committed to
expanding and strengthening technical and managerial extension services to
SSEs for betterment of their skills. The proposed loan of $30 million,
which would cover about one-third of CNB's foreign currency commitments over
a two-year period during 1983-84, together with the proposed expansion of
CNB's medium and long-term local currency equipment loan operations (reaching
about $160 million equivalent in the period 1983-84) will significantly
increase the flow of equipment finance suitable to SSEs.
59.       Since the individual projects to be financed under the proposed
loan are not yet identified, an ex-ante quantification of their economic
impact is not possible. However, it is expected that most of subprojects to
be financed under the loan would be for modernization of small enterprises
in the manufacturing, construction, transportation and service subsectors.
Experience with the first Bank loan to CNB shows that it has been used to
finance a wide range of projects whose economic rates of return were
estimated to range from 27% to 61%. Subprojects to be financed by CNB under
the proposed loan are expected to yield similar benefits. Based on the
average cost per job of projects recently financed by CNB, the proposed loan
would help create approximately 3,000 jobs.
60.       Risks.  CNB-s proposed expansion of local currency equipment
loans is desirable and CNB's plan for lengthening maturities of these loans
through term-transformation is feasible. The projected term-transformaton
in itself would neither have an adverse effect on CNB's financial position
nor entail any unusual risk, partly because CNB has access to the BOK's
"lender-of-last-resort" facility but mainly because the term-transformation
will take place gradually and the domestic currency equipment loan portfolio
even after term-transformation, will remain less than 5% of CNB's total
assets through 1986. However, CNB is still new to development banking and
it has yet to fully develop term lending capabilities at the branch level
which makes most of the local currency lending decisions. In light of the
foregoing, the capacity of CNB to implement its intended term-transformation
without jeopardizing the quality of its expanded term loan portfolio will be
critical to the success of the project. However, given the good caliber of
CNB-s management, and CNB-s strong commitment to staff training before
accelerating the expansion of long-term lending operations, the prospects
for successful project implementation are good. On balance, the risks
*            inherent in the project are manageable and well worth taking in view of the
potential long-term benefits that are expected to be derived from the
proposed project.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Citizens National
Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by: Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
KORLA REPUBLIC O} - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAIA SHEET
KoREA REPUBLIC OF                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
LAND) AiLA (lhOObAND) by. iM..)                                                                      - MIOST REGENT ESTIMATE)-
IolAL                9b.5                                      MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
A.4OILULIURAL        22.6                 1960  /b      1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb             ASIA 6 PACIFIC       LATIN AMERICA B CARIBBEAN
.! sPELK R-APYIA  (Lb)                     10U. 4        410.U      1460.0                     1136.1                    1616.2
ENUYLY UONbuOMTION PER CAPITA                                             *
(KILORKAMs oF  CAL EQUIVALENI)          2bl.1          772.6     1641.6                    1150.6                     1324.1
YOPu1AlION AND VEIAL blACCbIlIb
PoPLLAlluN, MID-YLAR  (THOUSANDS) 25003.4            31923.C    37814.0
UKfAN, FOPULATION  (PERLENT OF TOTAL) 27.7              40.7        53.4                      40.8                       64.2
YuP.LAION PRUJELIIONS
tYPLLAIIoN  UN YEAR 2uoO (MlLLUONS)                               52.5
,ilni,ONARY POU?LATIuN  (MILLIONS)                                72.0
YLAR SIAIIoNAR4  POPULATION  CS REACHED                        2065
ttP.~AZI.N OLNolll
tL, bO. hM.                           153.t          324.1      3E3.9                     373.1                        34.3
tLs  by. 6M. ALRURULIUC AL LAND    1166.4           1356.4     1643.0                    2382.8                        94.5
YoPLLAIIlo  AoL   fRUCI,LKL (PECLNsT)
v-I  11tb.                             4_. 9         42.1        3. 1                      39.8                       40.7
5-4  414.                              53.8          54.6        61l.1                     56.7                       S5.3
i  b. AND AbOVE 3L.                                     3.3        3.6                       3.5                        4.0
r'UPULAIIUo. W,ouWIR RAlL  (PLRKCNI)
1VIAL                                    2. 1          2.4         1.9                       2.3                        2.4
L abA                                    4.7           6.3         4.9                       3.8                        3.7
ils sI1Elh KAIs (PLh IdOubAND)          43.0          30.0        25.3                      29.7                       31.4
oUUs u LArd hAIL IL(LP  rHOJbANLI)        13.5           9.4          7.9                      7.5 s. 4
1b btKYROOULTIIVN RAIL                    2.8           2.1         1.6                       1.9                        2. 3
p0711. eLAhNIN1
ACLEPIOKRS, ANNUAL (lHOUbANOO)            ..         b72.0       686.0
UbL8b (fPKoLNI Of MAKRiLD WOMEN)    ..                32.         49.1                     44.1
LUoo  ANO NUTRliTN
LNDEX oL FOuD PM/OjL 110Vh
ELK LAP'1IA (19S9-i1=100)              s9.u           99.0      144.0                     123.7                       108.3
eLK 6A51A bUPPLY OF
A.VRILE, (ErHCLNI OF
oLQUINEMENI,)                        94.0         IlO.C       119.0                     112.6                      107.6
kOIrlt.Nb (CRAlb7 PLO DAY)              55.4          65.L        73.0                     62.5                       65.8
oL WHI4 H ANIMAL AND PULSE             7.U           4.U       15.U                      19.7                        34.0
I.Hsl (Ab.b 1-4 ) 610hlALIIY RAIL         13.             1 '. 5     4.5                       4.8                        7.6
SLAL) 
LISE 1LAPLLIANLC  AT Ilklh  (YEARS)       55.           59.5        b3. 4                     64.0                       64.1
iN.ANT MUKIALIII  RAIL (L.K
ILHUOu,Dj)                                62.U          4 i.)       37.0                      50.2                       70.,
A-LsCU     IU 1 AL  Al,AILS  IP`RULN I oF
PoUL,LI l 1061
IVIAL                                   .2.1          56.0        i1.0                     45.9                        b5.7
QROAO                                  lY. .          p4.0        45.U                     68.0                        79.7
LKAsI                                    9.S          368.0        4.9                      34.4                       43.9
A.bCS- I. sXEoRsIA OCPOsA.. IPLRLr.6
.I1 PIPULAlUNO)
IAL                                       .        .  25. u        1.                      53.4                       59.9
IK8AN                                     ..          5Y9.0        6.0                      71.0                       75.7
1.0AL                                     ..            ..        50.0                     42.4                        30.4
YDYLLA I IUN PLL hFrIo1LIAN             J5S9.5        2. lb. J    1966.1                   4428. 7                     1728.2
n,PCULAII   PEs  NDRaINI   PLFRbSN    322C.L/s      1768.9/c   553.2                      2229.7                     1288.2
P'CLLAIU i, l'ER  ,OPITAC BLD
1l0AL                                bs91.0        [950. I       43.8                     588.5                      471.2
s,bAN                                     ..        1084.5       755.9                    579.6                      558.0
*                                  0101K                                     ..            ..          ..                    1138.5
,>o11,6seNr IL K 0Ob51116A1 PLoL         . .         lo.14         .,                     3b.7
AStRA.L   1 L  .1,  hCsurs
OB6SS                                    5. S. S
,,Ah .iA,                                5.4            ..          . .                       .
AsLPAUL  NDUM8Lh . I PEKbSNb PLE  SOOM
L 1 AL.                                   .5     S     3.71        2.OU/ e...
DlbAAN                                   2.8           2.7         2. 1/.
,KA..-                                   2.4           .      .   2.0/.
AL,OS  1o LLL'.KOiTY  (PLOLLUS
o( UWLo.I-Nb)
luIAL                                   28.4          49.           .. 9
ChYAN                                   67.3          92.-.         ..
LRKAL                                   12.4          29.9        64.9



- 24 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEE.AGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIhATEI)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN
kDLCAI ION
AUJUSTbD ENKuLLYLEVr RATIOS
PKIMAKY:      TOTAL                  94.0        105.0      111.0                    99.8                      101.7
MALE                   99.0        106.0      112.0                   100.6                      103.0
FEMALE                 89.0        105.0      111.0                    98.8                      101.5
SECoNDAKY:   TIUTAL                  27.0         43.0       74.0                    53.5                       35.3
MALEL                  38.0         52.0       81.0                    58.4                       34.9
FEMALE                 14.U         34.0       67.0                    48.6                       35.6
V9tLAIluNAL ENROL. (I OP SECONDARY)  14.0          14.0       20.0                     21.1                      30.1
PUPLIL-TEALHER hRATIO
PKIMARY                              58.0         57.0       48.0                     34.2                      29.6
StLLONDAR                            34.0         37.0       39.0                    31.7                       15.7
ADLLT L1TERACY KATE (PERCENT)          70.6         87.6        93.0                    86.5                      80.0
CUNSUMPTIUN
PASSENGEK CAsS FEE ThOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.5          1.9        6.2                     12.7                      42.6
KADl. REl,iVtKS PEE THOUSAND
POPULATIuN                           31.2        125.7      398.7                   174.1                      215.0
TV KECEIVEKS PER THOUSAND
PUPFLATIlN                            0.3         13.1       95.9                    50.6                       89.0
NEWSP.PER ("DAILY GENERAL
iNTEKEST") LIKCULATION PER
IHu0SANhD POPULATION                   69.0        137.7      196.1                   106.8                       62.8
LINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             5.0         1.8                     4.3                       3.2
LAbUR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        8339.7      11173.8   14351.8
SEMALE (PERCENT)                     25.8         32.7       32.6                    37.4                       22.6
AGLULLLTURE (PERCENT)                66.4         51.0       35.8                    50.2                       35.0
INEUAThy (PERCENT)                    9.3         20.1       30.1                    21.9                       23.2
PARTICIPATlIN RATE (PERCENT)
TOIAL                                  33.4         35.0       38.0                    40.2                       31.8
MALE                                   49.5         46.8        50.7                    49.8                      49.0
YEMALE                                 17.2         23.0        24.9                    31.1                      14.6
L(uNOUIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.4          1.3        1.0                     1.1                        1.4
INCUOE DISTRlKUIION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECElVED BY
hIGhEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   15.1 /d         17.1       16.1
htiGHEST 2u PEKCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS  42.3/d         44.5       45.3
LUWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7/d           7.1        5.7
LuWSLT 4u PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/d          17.7       16.9
PuVkNTY TAR(EIT GROUPS
ESTiLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS FUR CAPITA)
UKdAN                                  ..           ..      320.0                   248.6
h0RAL.                                 ..           ..      270.0                    193.7                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (tU$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      370.0                   249.8                      513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..      310.0                    234.3                     362.2
ES7LTMATED POPULATUON BELOW ANSOLUTE
PuVEXTY INCOtME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UKRAh                                  ..           ..       18.0                    21.2
KLKAL                                  ..            ..      11.0                     32.2
Not applicable.
NOTES
,a   llh     P g O-pvotes for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
an<ng the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
b   Uoles-  otherwise noLed, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
J/ c  Rgistered, not all practicing in the country; /d 1965; /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates to be shown in the 1981. World Bank Atlas
are S1520 (at 1978-80 prices) and 38455 thousands.
May, 1981



'.;Ge ...... dd  jo  ZS A   q 1000AO  eeocrrede -'  -0000   .    -05 r05e4
0961 AM.                                                                                                                               C000i00   5
en d.! CG12..G;..a P-f OII1O  1000
02-70I0 00  11100  01 000G0 I0-1' Peel 011-01  234 Id .1   9   0U'                                                                  GO.GqIoe  92Ge-ou
T  .dTPICC    o*1    GOOO1   e   'eOOGPe      :'e 
I "I 17-    1   -d-) --TI'Md                                         d~~~0~- p0  'G ll    eO I"   W 0G000    40 Gs-Olee)T TI0000ClG    ,r5
T_17- GeOG  00    --I00   --.24 02003T   GOT2 0010100 I0100                       enoi. 0            .e   ee   0Se-o,qee 1 GIOOo Go                    TR- C2p1e0
eei'd,oeo   02::aoc)1120000  0010 0 *e1 i-4IT   5.001_ *Z  os.                                   -   a  ende                -TGGbo  IopOs 0Id90*
d               Id4  O   02   C0110  1100  0011--d0:C5  enOooe..                                                              T-q:1  0~G  0'nOroe   000.o  09        110:
rod:24Gto,   ~011~G    o  2e   .50   2*0  410e   01- -                               310 -a,lOpdd0~2.'IGOSG    0C01l1O1C
-   Gee GeoN  - (elOpe: 1G  eM) 1T--1  -ole  "-j1:  -21-1.1 92100250-                                    1 -I   .-.1-    d                     IT
* 900)2   7. reCT      0G  eO  0   001  1o041-040'Gl9.o2t;000Ge.o,                                                                                     Toee
- tree,pee 0.901-Ce: 0.: Gel652  ICo  0105 oiee. n o  ,3:.qp p.oe ol.        n.   e   eo,320i 0C0G    Gn_90e0222   OO1olOOl000
'GObOGGO  IOGIC9GGG  0Gm  Ge2CIilCGoO  C: 910000` Gee61P    DE  '09                                    209Tq  6161 9' 01:  9   '9110 --
* 505l2044   1100SG10d510  SCS2OC    e0'0  "13                                   200CZ011 STOI 0 -10.1 td2d 1.901   CO        -,TooeX( 90-4 C  -1,20-1.0   S.
V- T9 p- CT ~~~~~P-                          tI0-3m4 Id          '10P :11 90  0191 '-190 M-Ap 'ePT               0   .10   0  000. 03000
GOal P50 Ce 951 61 0590.0 C*95G0402 40 Oo2CG   - 010                          Ide00*   GooO  20  500 05o    0p001-d in   101 522*.055   e2e100
*  '902001   GeG  PS.'CGo.oodd *q  _40 CIG20.GO    Pe-    .OL 3009503T             -pt  ..j'eleee  p-00"           C  9500I95.. Te ., Idolo  40'GsOo  eer
01e.oo..1   ..T1 r-;:  P-obooCl3elCG  'noGe-.   PI~                                                   P-,ono.  0005  0  I'2d  0900- 19   Td    IN'-  I'd1901  ee P,Oo   lI 20; CS.002
P~S 6141 Pee- 0                                               2 00191 PO  '0190617 21060l 0T100 PT-9CGOG
'0960 00101 'e'o  0020 00 C200001C405 toGP.,                 PICA'211201   90  0  Olo20  OGO  'T 2_0415  P-                00000,   0 ;   09120  G. PC
201000 -'0-T0-0-1-0-0 -20.1   05 CO; 00909                                                        (PT--_2010   2C90  *  'OOOC0   Ce0ea    0aolo0   tO1S0Co  IGIG  91 1-0A-
'OT? 94190 F0  0191  O" 09-0 5240     091 0020  J.SC2C1e   e            T,00           -120e T-10   10  500r'               .o...4 C.. P'S*  'Piz 0S9G1dCe5
00q312r020 I9 '12S20-4 -2100           -qC - 099-1ee2o   IGTO G T'OTOO_ I0009009                            =S OGT  e  In0e049039   oO   eoe
'SG961 99   21'2001e10    0                              a  00.5'G000i05109.920   514.  1111                               W9   e
''be  '500Sp0OC'C600SS01 901T0100   000 91019' P. ....zo( 90-2                      02  d9000   - (Ce-T"0G   90 OIltO) *011GT10 Id LbTdde12 I Sd-..
900901000 '502e05  520000 ATT-000CO     - (.F ....000) C....0I 1090 100                     '000  96L1 P0S'061  0-600e2e .0111 1.009006 slez-Te TOSl
CC61 SOll01P 02 *G9Ct~0 20"T1'       -i 205 .2 -*010  P1T-                        P-910   P-; P- P-e  -IT-CC51091    5501P0                   TT 0     1103  0010009022
Id nqa  9   0  05  -IeGIt   OGe   0  e00500-  5105  500                             10_.  0014.0 d~ I0d00  -   01-11-0961) -T00e  10  01e0914  01 JI 0200
peG..ineo  eo3 GeC1 S  e-Wdde GO 30 .,A19,?  *0j 02RIII~O     D
l.1   .. zq4OeI ;T:090 -T-, e 0CC0e00  1O25ee 11,  (0 591010                                                                        eol   o.e. 05-   -   C10   1
-15  CC44S  91CA95    9G10190090S000  eG  00009201  009CC9          0  502          T 1G 096T025  500 IT-tn   0rr   I  S0e~4T53   02
'0C3G  5  050C  0  0  0290et.  09  C0e  0  peOCIOeO05PonJOrlonlj    (01  9020  9                         -T01G  e2Tf -         dTT01   105
T             IO 1 .0G    9204.  IS20S  104 CoepZ '.-B33  05 00OCS0 ...                      oGo.oe ...14 0q01             .".sOP3  POOlT  C20G0096T2251 OC00`10
0Id  0elSeSCl09   1.10   0Coeo  0   OOeO910010   001595                                                         CeCO0513         v00   CrSY-Cr  oOoP:e   el
-Gp9100021443  peel  e4'o0                  0.0I.9 020e0900                                                            'Go  66195 T0191'090  01012-10000
0191  20  C2011G  3  eslG  19 -eOlell4009200090120  C2GJCG1  1900GOC-PI  30TpOGeq TT409 6e                                  1 5 T00 --(9e.OGo  Ge) Srt 0--T-~
'61-OL1 P-S 'O'-0901 '0-0~066  103 000.900  le
'40pUs- oo l 6  pete -e-TOoned*T4          - Olooe 1000 4   IG202C . d              -1T..1020  30 Id00  9oooi 1000  - T10202- (0-.01e   eeO  920:   050000
032011 p- p-52 02 Cl) C.T."   I C....f T        -    G0.010) COl 20C2C2T 01090                                                           ".P 96: 690P '0160 '006) 000020
09  0   10el23  *C- Sq 9001119T.- 0121.02  ..0.C  V., A101,0                 -;T)00-020 '               tT19-6)  _Sp0TTf - 02000  00010  9   01000
01 9Cl02f  -0090-  T-0     4000C    0  '1 -           -  05   t90o120                                                                   01 99   0 06  09   :110:
-P %  100210C00 T0C01021-A  (0*pooe  0  01C) 20011020  T00002102                              400   O109  0)           T"001  e20be led eoTorTodod  -Oe..Pm - 'i.5 'Fo It;
qod~4 203 00010001000*1 20009*11 1*900.0 10'T-.000"' 'TeoCee  599404               0101 d0 A1,toG. -1W  -.1 09  - 01051 .1 00100   .000                       n
A55210251Sned Po. .i.4. ; sIn;T 100  200S  21 00T.- C902                                                                                                111I0
LOleoe0.9   l  Cp0      lC;  r   9.'*0  -100   29000-olt   000 T..".2.ee; 90 00T100 (C2C   090 P0 '00025 
'025 10901  *I0TJC  eeO  029*2  0010  e:,O .11150   os                     b0er   923   0G1e029   02)10e29   1*.00   ee:
202000   9020   4lle    01029  leC20  00 T.,10*00                                       0&e"IlSOOOG104d   01eoOos-u    11, .0.TGG    bo                      O9
104~ D0000T        004J   900001C4p10900302900sGOCeO P---                                               010 '020-T0lGepC.1T'  2L    0 0100 ( ;T- 1 -0.Td000  *T0
.!  _.I                 -~~~Cle.                                                                                                    -,C11af-t(0'0040    ooeoi   0    01  10013P
P- -7-    -t-I  ~        ~      ~     ~ ~~000101                 12191T-9  0550002  T1  0.9  90.  901.0000.  0oee:  20
5--iti-3m  P0Gn1010  tl0et  05CT   00190 -                        20  *0- 1   *2,       III02*11G.
S-T-TT     1ITdT--T       '02100 9002T2T0P                 --a0S   "'GO  010   30A 00C  02OO:  01*1T10   1C0_T 022
P-C11Ge2  -  001p5  002 T100  - .T2-1 200 eeTTGCo 30 10010* ellaSA
TI= "=   "          ".eorol:oooee.00  1:o0eo  *''.5  69_91'99   '91052200   be
~1 9090101 *9 200 ICd10=0  ICp.   10q.  T"910  I   em    01  19  915d9    0010920200  00340 -T00.1 000   0002020 0141
oeg05o79 1  00  0000101 3020I'  -0003    901       - 1*100    ---I  ..9*09                                                                                      '0000
'10290 2C900 1105 90901001 C20 010014C*9 90001090.49  'el30o0       9606 P0 '0191 '0261  00T1410 Id    GIGOO  900  4  OoGIoT001101001
1000091  90  10101   1 0*013*9fOO  10  000  l1904ee  9102901'0*1 1.2*201101  S1100*""0040  0.09 10030 '0510001'02401 90
'C520C00  01C10*12014  QC  C0100  100030 p0,,1p 00014122110 *05j-100  000200    10.      14'  I 0302t1390
"0000401d-00 2CId q90990           ,,,,'lOPT,'20'eOOos100                                                                                         00  6161 90  '019'
O 1  26)00 ,0041   q 4P-;302  4T00CC01e- 00  tlC0010009  P0                       '0D91 0109-1  91-4161) 00909 1009 9129* CO 909001 0013202-*0 O-S 2993
S010~0090100  '2t2Coq  '3*01400  1S0~0  'pep1001  00 CII  200 0S0      -'*'3C212   0500-  00-700 01  CG0.0_e I0000 254I 00 -otTo,  30000lm          1 10
-050114000022 20102*2  SC0lItoSO1.  'o-Tco.19d t00 '-IS 41
9033*00Td -- Ir -O00020  0001e1003   010 11T014d00   --2*2n  0010-0T90 qS20 61163110   1   21   090   00190091   02210'4G 
'10.0) GOIGOIO4O,   T-    p-0  0   e*1   '19002  P- 99 1020600  iol t011140                                                                       I'0O   90100) 9010 3(0
0200 30 100119010020 *92 CO C945   '20090T 9  to010004  0*  12C= 9   01   '100290 0-9  14-02                       0   01      0S0400   9   03100
IT" 1*  04C0  pee              'T 20Glc091 900.  04 0000   002T210T009110 -0oeld d ... I     dOISGO   9   TOGO  60020 0201040    III 00d'100020005  -011101 q
L)  U,                                                 n~~~~'OICCb09C1  C2i05    oose 050e1e   CCle0 00eec    0 '910GGOO  O0ISC4   0900021   01010'CIO
ITX3NNV



Population:  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                   -                                                         P- Annex   f
CNP Per Capita:  TJS$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                           Annual growth rates (%) at constant prices
currenit prices)                               Actual                                     Projected
Indicator                               1980/a              1976        1977       1978       1979       1980/a       1981       1985       1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic producL                59,177              13.9       10.1        11.3        7.1       -3.4          6.2        7.6        8.0
Agriculture                          9,754              10.7        2.1       -4.0         6.7      -22.0        24.0        2.5         2.5
Industry                           24,396               20.1       15.8       20.8        8.4       -0.4          4.0       10.0        10.0
Services                            25,027              10.8        9.7       11.0         6.0        2.4         1.4        7.0         7.0
Consumption                           45,215               8.8        7.1        11.0        7.4       -0.9         2.3         4.8        6.4
Gross investnent                      17,889               8.0       24.0        35.9       17.5      -24.3        10.9         8.5        7.6
Exports of ';,NFS                     21,145              43.0       25.7        17.5       -3.6        9.6         11.6       11.0       10.6
Imports of GNFS                       25,846              26.9       23.8       29.1         8.6       -6.8         7.7         7.4        8.8
Gross national savings                12,268              42.3        17.3       14.9        2.4      -19.5          -          -          -
PRICES
CDP deflator (1975 = 100)                                116.3      135.8       164.6      197.4      250.3         -           -
Exchange rate (US$L =)                                   484.0      484.0      484.0       484.0      607.6         -           -          -
Export price index (1975 = 100)                          112.8      120.2       137.2      161.2      168.7       179.9      240.9       321.1
Import price index (1975 = 100)                          103.0      103.9      108.4       137.3      175.2       170.2      233.5       316.6
Terms of tra.le index (1975   100)                       109.5      115.7       126.6      117.4       96.3       105.7       103.2      101.4
Share of COP at sarket prices (X)                         Average annual increase (%)
(at currenit prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross lomestic produict             130.0   100.0   100.0   100.00  100.0    100.0             8.6        9.8        8.2         7.3        7.7
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4               4.3        4.9       -1.2         5.3        2.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2             17.4        15.3       13.5        9.1       10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3               8.1        7.7        7.6        6.2         7.0
ConIsumption                      85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1               6.7        7.8        7.1        4.8         6.1
Gross investment                  lt.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8              23.6       11.2       14.6         9.2        8.8
Exports of GNPS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6             29.3        25.4       16.1       10.9        10.5
Imports of ';NPS                  12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9             20.2        15.8       17.0        7.2        8.4
Gross national savings !b           8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7        -         -          17.2       14.6        -           -          -
As   of COP
1960       1970       1975       1980          Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (1)
PUBLIC FiNANCE                                                                                 Agriculture                   4.7        32.2
Current revenues                            18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9            Industry                      3.9       27.1
Cuirrent expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6            Services                      5.1       35.5
Current surplus                              4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3            Unemployed                    ).7        5.2
Capital expenditure                          3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                            ...        1.0        1.3        1.0                Total Labor Force        14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annuial GNP growth rate (X)                                  8.7               9.0               7.9               7.5               8.0
Annu,al GNP per capita growth rate (X)                        5.9              6.9               5.2               5.9               6.4
Annual energy consumption growthi rate (L) 14.7                                 9.6             12.3/c             7.7                ... .
ICOR                                                         1.9               2.7               5.4               4.7               4.4
Marginal savings rate                                        0.3               0.3               0.3               0.5               o.4
Import ,lasticicy                                            2.2               1.6               2.0               1.0               1.1
/a  Preliminary.
/b Including net transFers.
/c 1975-79.
East Isia anid Pacific Regi-al O)ffice
October 1981



-  2 7  -                                                Annex I
Page 5 of S
Population      :  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)
GDP per capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                        Actual                                        Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977        1978    1979      1980/a    1981       1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services          1,379   5,9q0   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,497    27,114  55,074 121,077
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.           382   5,028   7,821   10,035  12,678  14,694  17,212    20,846  43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services          2,18(   7,Q92  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,11  28,638            32,848  59,810 119,694
Of which: merchandise F.o.h.         1,804   6,671   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,972    24,508  45,557  95,014
Net transfers                             178      225      345      222      467      439      454        495      668      893
Current account balance                 -623  -1,858       -307        8  -1,060  -4,153  -5,687        -5,415  -3,q68  +2,276
(5 of GNP)                             (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.9)    (-8.2)  (-3.3)  (+3.1)
Direct investment                          66       53       75       72       61       17       -7          30      800   1,749
lILT loans (net)                          242   1,252   1,238   1,458   2,746   2,944   1,694            3,280   3,821   6,019
Official                               147      486      663       594      663      853      864      1,108      893      908
Private                                 95       765      575      864   2,083   2,090        831      2,173   2,927    5,111
Other capital                             372      929      308    -167  -1,039    2,090   4,862         2,479   1,682  -7,436
Change in reserves                        -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372        -707    -898    -863         -843  -1,348  -2,611
International reserves                   610       797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,975           4,818   9,352  19,370
Reserves as months imports                3.4      1.2      2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5      1.7        1.7      1.8       1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL ANI) DERT
Gross disbursements
OfFicial grants                           -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Concessional loans                     133       123      238      163      184      193      138
DAC                                  123      108      226      132       167      173      121
OPEC                                   -        -        -        21       13       20       17
IDA                                    1       14       10         9        3        -        -
Other                                  -         I        2        1        -        -        -
Non-concessional loans                 317   1,511    1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,306
Official export credits               18      151      132      262       319      341      614
IBR9                                   7      189      286      190      321      426      248
Other multilateral                      5      87       83       85        89       91       90
Pri-vte                              287   1,083   1,017    1,503    3,101   3,591   2,353
Medium- and TLong-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                          1,797   5,540   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,585
Official                             613   2,657   3,359   4,121    5,016   5,667   6,531
Private                            1,185    2,883   3,458   4,472   6,921    8,886  10,054
Undisbursed                            902   1,629   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337  11,293
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                 268       667      910   1,20l   1,827   2,634    3,192
Interest                             70      283      392      475      659      936   1,442
Payments as I exports                 19.4     11.3       9.6      9.2    10.7    13.5    14.2
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                            ...   2,409    3,045   3,239    3,575   6,279  10,047
Interest payments                       ...      ...      ...      152      236      377      907
Interest as S exports                   ...      ... .            1.2       1.4      1.9      4.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (X)
Official                               4.5       7.9      7.1      7.9      7.4      7.6        -
Private                                7.1      9.3      8.3       8.4      9.7     11.5        -
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                              28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    16.8              -
Private                               10.9       5.7      8.7      8.8      q.3      9.3        -
As 1 of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1980)
Maturity structare of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                             35.6
Maturities due within 10 years                             61.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                              6.3
/a Preliminary
East Aria and Pacific Regional Office
D)ecember 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
- 28 -
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of Miarch 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                                              Amount ($ million)
Credit      Calendar                                                                 (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                        Bank      TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-one  loans and eight credits fully disbursed                           1,299.01  40.0  106.81
1203          1976    Republic of Korea       Highways III                       90.0                         1.86
1319          1976    ADC                     Irrigation                         29.0                       10.79
1364          1977    ADC                     Irrigation                         95.0                       34.78
1401          1977    Republic of Korea       Ports II                           67.0                       23.80
1474          1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training                23.0                        2.59
1503          1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                       25.07
1530          1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructure II            95.0                       36.62
1542          1978    Republic of Korea       Railway VI                        120.0                        1.23
1574          1978    KDB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                         0.35
1635          1978    KLTCB                   Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                        3.42
1640          1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                       143.0                       60.58
1666          1979    Republic of Korea-    Chungju Multipurpose                125.0                       63.01
1676          1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology             29.0                       14.03
1749          1979    SMIB III                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                        3.84
1758          1979    Republic of Korea       Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                       54.87
1774          1979    Republic of Korea       Population I                       30.0                       29.56
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                               115.0                      113.14
1800          1980    Republic of Korea       Education V                       100.0                       94.12
1829          1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                       17.86
1836          1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                        94.0                       22.45
1851          1980    AFDC   _                Agriculture II                     50.0                       34.22
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                       54.50
1933          1981    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                       63.84
1974          1981    Republic of Korea       Third Agriculture Credit           50.0                       39.37
1980          1981    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land & Elousing         90.0                       86.24
2004          1981    SlIB IV                 Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                       59.98
2071          1982    Republic of Korea       Structural AdJustment             250.0                      250.00
2072*         1982    Republic of Korea       Water Supply                       90.0                       90.00
Total                                                           3,635.01  40.0  106.81   1,292.12
of which has been repaid                                        293.16   -       3.22
Total now outstanding                                           3,341.85  40.0  103.59
Amount sold                       8.83
of which has been repaid        8.73                              0.10   -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                               3,341.75  40.0  103.59
Total undisbursed                                               1,292.12   -       -       1,292.12
*   Declared effective on April 1, 1982.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                           Amount ($ million)
Year       Obligor                 Types of Business            Loan  Equity Total
1968    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.              Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Rae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976    Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                        Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1980/82 Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                           -      1.1    1.1
1980    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                         Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
Total gross commitment                                  106.4   28.2  134.6
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   70.2    3.6   73.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                       36.2   24.6   60.8
TOTAL undisbursed                                          -     0.5    0.5
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF MARCH 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvements and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and three more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be limited to these four subprojects.
The remaining four will be financed entirely by the Government and will be
completed by 1986.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam on the Yong San river, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation
canals, reclamation of 5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of
uplands for irrigation of paddy, land consolidation on 3,200 ha, and
irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands. The main contract for the estuary dam
construction, awarded in December 1977, is complete. Other parts of the
project have fallen behind due to a shortage of local budget. The Bank and
the Government recently agreed that loan disbursements would be limited to
the eight subprojects under implementation and scheduled for completion by
mid-1984 and that the Government would provide all funds to carry out and
complete the remaining subprojects by the end of 1985.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements for
10,800 ha, including 5,800 ha of land consolidation and 1,800 ha of land use
conversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.  Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984 and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects. The remaining two subprojects will be financed entirely by the
Government and will be completed by the end of 1986.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 36 minor irrigation subprojects, con-
struction or improvement of 2,500 km of river levees or bank protection,
contruction or improvement of water systems for 7,400 villages, and tele-
phone line installation to provide new service for 2,700 villages and 76,000
additional lines to other villages. The river levee bank construction, rural
telephones and the water supply components are complete. Design work on the
minor irrigation component is complete. The total area of the irrigation
subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha. Contracts have been awarded for
all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow due to shortfalls in
local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project provides funds to the Agriculture and Fishery Develop-
ment Corporation (AFDC) for medium- and long-term loans to the private
sector for the construction and equipping of agroprocessing facilities, and
for technical assistance to AFDC. The project has been progressing satis-
factorily with lending being directed increasingly towards ensuring that the
project would finance a wide range of processing facilities and that medium
and small size processors would be the main recipients of the total project
funds.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-
scale agro-processing and backyard livestock. The project was declared
effective in August 1981 and implementation is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system. The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The contract for the main dam and power plant was
awarded in December 1979 and construction is proceeding on schedule. The
major accomplishments to date are completion of the excavation of the slide
zone on the right bank and diversion of the river through the left bank
tunnels. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC. In order to support relatively
labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million was earmarked for
financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
$750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to finance small- and
medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0 million of the
proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea Development Leasing
Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to KDFC, by way of
subloans. Progress is good and only about 4% of funds are still to be
disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of Korea
Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service, devel-
opment and production activities, would stimulate and support the Korean
electronics industry-s drive into new areas; and (b) the establishment of a
program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the electronics
industry. Project implementation was about 18 months behind schedule due to
delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However, the semiconduc-
tor facility, which is the main physical component of the project, is opera-
tional. KIET's work program has been prepared with input from industry.
The training and expert invitation program has been implemented satisfac-
torily. Recently some shortage of counterpart funds has affected the pro-
ect and proposed institutional changes have given rise to concern; these
matters are under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government-s policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB-s project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next two years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB's reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
-incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced
capital goods (estimated at 60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to
support the Government's policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Popuiation Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project would provide for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 91 Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning Centers; 11 Family
Planning Clinics, expanded information, education and communication produc-
tion and training facilities, and upgraded health centers; providing and
equipping 13 mobile family planning units; provision of about 75 vehicles,
and training and information, education and communication equipment; produc-
tion and distribution of information, education and communication materials;
fellowships; research and evaluation; and information, education and admin-
istrative staff. Training to convert unipurpose workers to multipurpose and
to provide them with midwifery training is occurring at a rate of about
1,000/year. Construction of about 14 maternal and child health family
planning centers began in November 1981.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered.  All experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
p        $36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance.  The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is a multicomponent regional development project con-
sisting of: housing - 3,950 residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu;
industrial estates - 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo;
water supply - improvements to water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and
Narodo; transportation - two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo islands with
the mainland, improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in Yeosu and ferry
service between Narodo and the mainland; fisheries - an aquaculture develop-
ment program and a shrimp storage facility at Imjado; and technical assist-
ance. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects. Contracts
have been awarded on 12 subprojects while contract award has been delayed on
3 subprojects. Four subprojects have been completed on schedule and are
being transferred to the cities and county concerned. Land acquisition has
been essentially completed and construction is well underway. Only limited
construction was possible on both Jindo and Dolsan Bridges during 1981
because of insufficient Government budget allocations. A continuous budget
has been established for Central Government funded subprojects whereby
annual allocations have been determined for the life of the project.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objective of the project is to provide affordable housing for
low-income families and serviced land for middle-income families in 10
medium-sized cities. The four Phase I sites would provide 4,100 dwellings
(low income) and 1,200 serviced lots for middle-income houses. The six
Phase II sites would provide more than 6,000 housing lots including about
4,400 low-income dwellings. Contract work on nine of the original ten sites
is proceeding according to schedule. The tenth site has been ommitted due
to the uncertainty of marketability of the site.  Further savings due to
lower than estimated bids for land preparation and timely implementation
have been achieved. KLDC proposed to utilize these savings to finance
development of three supplementary sites (Seoul Goduck, Busan Manduck and
Gwangju Yeomgju). This has been agreed after review of feasibility studies,
subject to further cost reductions in land preparation and agreements on use
and pricing of low income land. Overall project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 2072    First Water Supply Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: April 1, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The principal objective of the project is to improve access to safe
water supplies to the populations of the municipalities of Daegu and Gwangju
and for the Masan Region serving jointly the cities of Masan, Changwon and



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Jinhae. The project would also support the Government's efforts to improve
the organization and coordination of the sector as well as to increase
capability of institutions: at the national level where the Water Resources
bureau of MOC would receive assistance and training in project planning and
implementation; at the regional level where three cities under this project
would jointly build and manage source works for more efficient water
utilization; and at the local level where individual city water bureaus would
receive technical assistance to improve their financial and management
capabLlities.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways total-
ing about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c)
feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provin-
cial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering of those found to be econ-
omically justified. Except for the procurement of additional maintenance
equipment, all components have been completed. The Saudi Fund for
Development provided a loan of $35 million to assist in financing the
project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project provides mainly for continuation of the extenion of
the Port of Busan started under the First Ports Project with special emphasis
in container handling facilities. The project comprises: (a) a 700 m exten-
sion of the container terminal including stacking areas, dredging, access
road, container freight station and equipment and ancillary works and equip-
ment; (b) rehabilitation of 4 existing general cargo handling berths; and (c)
acquisition of two tugboats. The institutional component of the projects
provides for technical assistance and training to improve KMPA's capability
in port planning and operations and managerial and accounting procedures.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the proposed third ports
project have recently been added to the project and Schedule I of the Loan
Agreement amended accordingly. Project completion is expected for June 1983.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the railroad Investment Plan 1977-81, and
includes (a) electrification and double tracking of Seoul City suburban lines;
(b) capacity increases in lines and stations; (c) way and structure renewals
and improvements; (d) procurement and repowering/remodeling of diesel loco-
motives and rolling stock; (e) modernization and construction of repair
facilities; (f) improving telecommunications and power supply facilities; and
(g) provision of staff housing, training equipment and advisory services.
The project is near completion.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. An estimated 57% of
the civil works were completed by end February 1982. Maintenance equipment
procurement is underway. The study reports of the Gun Road Development
Program and of the Provincial and Gun Road Maintenance Program have been
finalized and detailed engineering for Gun Roads is underway.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project is the 1980-81 part of the railroad investment plan,
1977-81, and includes (a) capacity increases in lines and stations; (b) way
and structure renewals and improvements; (c) procurement and repowering/
repair of locomotives and rolling stock; (d) modernization and construction
of repair facilities; (e) improvement of telecommunications and power
supply facilities; (f) implementation of management improvements; and (g)
overseas training. The loan also finances training in transport planning
and coordination and technical assistance for transport feasibility and
urban transport studies. After a slow start, the project is now progressing
well. The Management Technical Assistance contract is being finalized.
Terms of reference for the Transport Studies are also being finalized.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 1788    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for (a) a thermal power station with two
500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; (b) coal
handling and storage facilities, fuel-oil tanks, ash system and storage
area; (c) a fuel unloading dock; (d) a pumping station to transport fresh
water to the station; (e) a 160 km of double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line and related terminal substations and (f) consulting services for
management and organization study of KECO. Execution of works is slightly
behind schedule. Completion date of the first unit is now estimated to be
December 1983 instead of October 1983. Management and organization study
was completed and reviewed by the Bank during CY81. There have been sub-
stational delays in the preparation of bidding documents, but most contracts
have now been placed.
Structural Adjustment
Loan No. 2071    Structural Adjustment Loan; $250.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: March 4, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan will support the Government's comprehensive structural
adjustment program, the principal aim being to keep the balance of payments
manageable while restoring the growth momentum of the economy. To achieve
these medium-term objectives, specific actions will be taken (i) to save
imports (particularly energy-related imports); (ii) to promote exports and
improve industrial efficiency through consolidation of investment, further
opening of the economy and reducing government intervention; and (iii) to
strengthen domestic resource mobilization efforts. The foreign exchange
provided by the loan will be used to finance essential imports.



- 40 -                             ANNEX III
KOREA
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK (CNB)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         The project was prepared during
regular supervision of the first
loan to CNB.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  CNB
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to
consider the project:               October 1981
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:        October 1981
(e)  Negotiations completed:                March 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         October 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to participate in increases in CNB-s share capital to ensure
that the 10:1 debt/equity ratio is met (para. 53).
(b) CNB to implement its Development Strategy for 1982-86 which calls for,
among others, expanding its term lending activity for SSEs (para. 45),
lengthening the average maturity of its domestic currency equipment
loans through prudent term-transformation (para. 54), diversifying its
foreign currency resources (para. 55), intensifying training of its
staff especially branch staff (para. 44), and strengthening its
research activities particularly subsector/market studies (para. 50);
and
(c) CNB to review the average maturity of its domestic currency equipment
lending operations for SSEs by the end of each fiscal year starting
with the year ending December 31, 1982 and the average maturity of such
operations planned for the following fiscal year, and on the basis of
such review and consultation with the Bank determine the level of term-
transformation for the following year (para. 54).



IBRD 14617R
21'                         12                            12         8            JANUAR 1198
f} X {Ngo   0 R T H  K0O R E A -t
tH;NA~      ~~~   (   f1 
CH ,   A   $                Ij                                   KOREA ,
mhwm
;NCREA.                                                                                                             East  Sea
Yellowz      IODE Jd , 3                                                                                                                                  30"
Sea                                                                           'G ut    r           GANG W E4CN
Oce IfIc           5)  1                         e-Angoob
Ja5  onteI pitfaF  st    "6  -f         PW>         s,e&osotvo    Eooo
JCNin   Sea,-,                                                                                                                    uk  o                   36
'33'  '           .'           )'2.~OThSEU   A                                                                      m heok
0 10 000U3et 000 ot\ o-t-t tOO h~tO9GYEO N4, ofJJ
.~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0001 to O4O'S' 0,00,, 
.,~~~~~~~~~~~w -,                                                                                                        .DKOR E
8 -'k                -            -                                                     :S                         CH
040004 so                                                    ....s    .......o -O  K                                 PDrLD-E
.  oOO'0 -0_4,=0                                                                                                   tNT0RNT00A0 80NDR4
37' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~  Aoooooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
.~~~~~~~
3 5 0 0 4 0 4 5' i 6oh eenn
Yellow   Sea ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jeo~~~~~~~~ k ~~~~G  c!oo
34,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F~                                                                    no
36p*
YoOt~~~   J  E   ONY 40 
~~    ~   '>5..  N  A  M                  K                               800009N0A0M
.anu                                                                 USABACHNTWR
340                                    0~~~~~,                       -                         '~~~~~-    4,0048~~~0 
"0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
CNB BRANCHNETWOR
MAILOS -
133'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~E 12                                                       20"     4      0     6       13-0  1?      0    16



