LOAN NUMBER 2144 Ko
Loan Agreement
(Citizens National Bank II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2144 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      At)       9A-          , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK (hereinafter
called the Borrower), a company established and operating under
the laws of the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the
Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a Subloan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of  the Loan   in  an  Investment Enterprise for    an Investment
Project.
(c)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an Investment.


﻿-2-
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(e)  "Won", "W" and "Local Currency" mean the currency of
the Guarantor.
(f)  "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g)  "Act" means   the Citizens National Bank Act, dated
December 7, 1962, as amended.
(h) "Decree" means the Guarantor's Enforcement Decree
relating to execution of the Act, dated December 15, 1962, as
amended.
(i) "Articles of Incorporation" means the Articles of In-
corporation of the Borrower approved by the Guarantor's Ministry
of Finance on December 15, 1962, as amended.
(j)  "Statements of Policy" means the statements of lending
and investments policy approved by the Board of Directors of the
Borrower on August 10, 1979; and the Development Strategy for
1982-1986 approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on
April 10, 1982, all as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(k)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(1)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means the agreement (Ln. No.
1829-KO) between the Bank and the Borrower dated May 7, 1980 and
"Prior Loan" means the loan provided for therein.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000).


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan or
Investment to meet 100% of the reasonable foreign currency cost
of directly imported goods and services and 60% of the reasonable
local currency cost (representing the estimated foreign exchange
component) of locally manufactured or procured goods required for
the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Loan Account is requested; provided, however, that except as
the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) Sub-loans or Investments
totalling not less than $15,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate
shall be made to or in Investment Enterprises (A) whose total
assets shall not exceed W250,000,000 each, or (B) which employ
not more than 50 workers each; (ii) Sub-loans or Investments
totalling not less than $15,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate
shall be made for Investment Projects located outside the city
limits of Seoul; and (iii) no withdrawals shall be made in
respect of a Sub-loan or Investment unless (A) the Investment
Enterprise has not more than 100 employees if in the industrial,
mining and transportation sectors or not more than 20 employees
if in the construction and service sectors, (B) the Sub-loan or
Investment shall be for an amount not exceeding $500,000 equiva-
lent, and (C) (1) the Sub-loan or Investment shall be approved by
the Bank, or (2) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for
which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account.
(b) A   free-limit Sub-loan   shall  be  a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $300,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of
the Prior Loan for such Investment Project, the foregoing amount
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the
Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by
an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an Investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the
date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
Sub-loan or Investment the application and information required


﻿-4-
by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-
limit Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit Sub-
loan the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the estimated
economic rate of return of the Investment Project; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or of
repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for
the Investment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before June 30, 1985.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to four hundred
and fifty thousand dollars ($450,000). The fee shall be payable
in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the
event that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the
fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the


﻿-5-
amount required for the full payment of the fee in the currency
or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of Investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.10 of this Agreement; provided that any such amendments
to the amortization schedule permitted hereunder shall not
authorize repayments of the principal amount of the Loan beyond
the latest repayment date set forth in such Schedule 1. Repay-
ments due hereundez shall be made on June 15 and December 15 in
each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
Investment shall provide for an appropriate grace period not
exceeding three years, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond 12 years
(including said grace period) from the date of approval by the
Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-
limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate


﻿-6-
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
(d) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) the Bor-
rower shall charge interest on amounts withdrawn and outstanding
on Sub-loans at an annual rate of not less than two per cent (2%)
more than the interest rate specified in Section 2.07 of this
Agreement; and (ii) any foreign exchange risk on a Sub-loan shall
be borne by the Investment Enterprise.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a)  If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or an
Investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify, the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next f3llowing interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-
loan or Investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.
(b)  Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a Sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to
the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the
Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an
Investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such Investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and
resources in the Republic of Korea as will contribute to the eco-
nomic and social development of the country. The Project consists
in the financing of specific development projects through loans
to and investments in private enterprises in the Republic of
Korea, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act, the Decree, the Articles of
Incorporation and the Statements of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written con-
tract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
Investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and opernte the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investrient
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amoants, as shall


﻿-8-
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) peotect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03 (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprise, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or
its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiar. to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the .ank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsid-
iary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,- at no


﻿- 10 -
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as. shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section .4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidary to incur any debt if, after the incurring o- such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidia-
ries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than ten
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries. For the plirposes of this Section:
(a)  "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is origially incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and Prior
Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of the
loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract
or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into
but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿- 11 -
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Won debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d)  "consolidated  debt   of  the  Borrower   and  all   its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
3ubsidiary; and
(e)  "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries" muans the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus aT.d free reserves of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or
of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree to the
deletion of Section 4.06 of the Prior Loan Agreement and to the
substitution in lieu thereof the provisions of Section 4.06 of
this Agreement.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfac-
tory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Won) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 4.09. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, oper-
ations and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidia-
ries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such inform-
ation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act, the Decree or
the  Articles   of  Incorporation   which  would  materially   and
adversely affect the operations or the financial condition of the
Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statements of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e)   a subsidiary or 4ny other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such crea-
tion, acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the con-
duct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
condition or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and
personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date    ^if, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Citizens National Bank
9-1, 2-KA, Namdaemun-Ro, Choong-Ku
C.P.O. Box 815
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                       Telex:
CNBANK                              K23481
Seoul


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of Amercia, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars**
December 15, 1985                                 500,000
June 15, 1986                                     700,000
December 15, 1986                                 700,000
June 15, 1987                                     900,00
December 15, 1987                                 900,000
June 15, 1988                                   1,100,000
December 15, 1988                               1,100,000
June 15, 1989                                   1,300,000
December 15, 1989                               1,700,000
June 15, 1990                                   1,900,000
December 15, 1990                               2,000,000
June 15, 1991                                   2,000,000
December 15, 1991                               2,000,000
June 15, 1992                                   2,100,000
December 15, 1992                               2,100,000
June 15, 1993                                   2,000,000
December 15, 1993                               1,900,000
June 15, 1994                                   1,700,000
December 15, 1994                               1,300,000
June 15, 1995                                   1,000,000
December 15, 1995                                 700,000
June 15, 1996                                     400,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement.
**   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.10 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             2.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             4.95%
More than six years but not
more than ten years
before maturity                             8.30%
More than ten years but not
more than twelve years
before maturity                             9.95%
More than twelve years
before maturity                            11.60%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in substi-
tution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been
denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the
Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant
to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the
Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of
the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /    tday of           198
FOR SECRETARY


