Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Av   ? /B- "e
Repor No. 8134-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 20! 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticted ditsibudon and may be us  by redpieits ony In th peodomae of
their officiid dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be dbdosed witot Wodd Bank authotbazdatLo



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(As of December 1989)
US$l         - Rp 1,770
Rp 1 billion - US$0.565 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (t)         G  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)              =  0.0063 barrels (bbl)
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.6215 miles tmi)
1 kilovolt (kV)          =  1,000 volts (V)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)  -  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 Megawatt (MW)          -  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)    -  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
MAIN ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAKOREN    -  National Energy Board
BAPPEDA    -  Provincial Planning Commission
BAPPENAS   -  National Development Planning Agency
DBUK       - Directorate General of Cooperatives Business Promotion
DGEP          Directorate General of Electric Power, Hinistry of Mines and
Energy
ESMAP      - Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GOI        -  Government of Indonesia
IERR       -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
LNG        -  Liquefied Natural Gas
MIS        - Management Information System
"oME- Ministry of Mines ard Energy
MOC        - Ministry of Cooperatives
MOF        - Ministry of Finance
NGO        -  Non-Government Organization
PERTAMINA  -  National Oil and Gas Company
PLN        -  State Electricity Corporation
PUSDIKLAT  -  PLN's Center for Education and Training
RE         -  Rural Electrification
REPELITA   -  Five-Year Development Plan
SBS        -  Small Business Service
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA AND PLN FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31



-  .      AL_        *
INDONESIA
RMRAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY ............................ .............    iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .      . .................................... ........... .  1
II.  THE ENERGY SECTOR AND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION ...................        2
A. Energy Resources .... ..       .... .... . .                        2
B. Sector Organization ... .....                      ...... ......  .   3
C.  Electricity Subsector .e.... .   ........... .t..........          3
D. Rural Electrification ......... ....................        .       4
1.  Definition of Rural Electrification ...................        4
2.  The Rural Environment         . .................. .           5
3.  The Extent of Rural Electrificati on ...................       6
E   Sector Obtecivee -snd Priorities ......................... .       7
F.  Promotion of Productive Uses of Electricity ...............        8
G. Bank's Role and Strategy .................... . ...                 9
B.  Previous Bank Group Projects ............................. .      10
I1I.  THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES    ............            11
A.  Introduction              .     ...........    .    .......       11
B.  The State Electricity Corporation (PLN) ...................       11
1.  Organization and Management ......................... .       11
2.  Staff Development and Training ....................... .      13
3.  Accounting and Budgeting ............................ .       13
4.  Billing and Collections ........................... .         14
5.  Audit and Internal Control ........................... .      14
6.  Insurance ................................. ..... .           15
C. The Ministry of Cooperatives (MOC) - Directorate General
of Cooperative Business Promotion (DBUR) ......... .           15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. N. Tin, A. Liebenthal, S. Bhatnagar (Bank), I. Tuncay and J. Finucane
(Consultants), that visited Indonesia in JunelJuly 1989.
This document has a restriced disWbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authodzation.



- it -
Page No.
IV.  THE PROJECT.... ********..****..................  ............             16
A.  Background and RE Development Plan........................              16
B.  Project Objectives .................                                    16
C.  Project Descriptions.....p..t .............                             17
D.  System DesignConsiderations..............................               18
E.  Project Cost Estimates ........... 0......... ............              19
F.  Project Financinga                   n     e     i     ng....... ...... .. ........  21
G. Procurement........................   22
H.  Disbursements..                                                         24
I.  Implementation, Construction Supervision and
Consulting S       e............                                     24
J.  Productive Uses Component .................................             26
E.  Environmental Considerations..............................              29
V.  PINANCIAL ANAYSS.L#.*Y....I.S...                                            29
A.  Introduction............                                                29
B.  Past Operating Results and Financial Position .............             29
C.  Financial Objectives .................................  ..... .       31
D.  Present and Future Performance ............................             32
E.  Performance Monitoring.. ............ .     .............  ...... .     34
F. Tarfs..                                                                  35
G.    Taxes .......  ^e+-v*-vvvsr-*. .*. .. .. ..... ....                   SIC-:
B.  Financing PoliCy ..............                                        36
I.  Asset Revaution ......                                                 36
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ............ .......                        37
A.  Project Justifications............................... ......            37
1.  Institutional Development Objectives..................             37
2. Meeting Demands and Increasing Cost
Efficiency of RE.......... .................         ....       38
3.  Poverty Alleviation ...................................            38
4.  Economic Return ...................................                38
B.  Project Risks. ........... ......... . . . . ..........       ....     39
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNDATION.........................                39
A.  Agreements Reacheda......         .... ................... ..           39
B.  Recom eendation...........................................              41



- AitiM
ALZIBXES
2-1   Organization Chart - MME
2-2   Growth of PLNIs Consumers and Sales
2-3   Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity in Java
2-4   Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity Outside Java
2-5   Investment Program - Indonesia
2-6   Investment Program - Java
3-1   Orgarization Chart - PLN
3-2   PLNs  Performance Indicators
3-3   Organization Chart - MOC
3-4   Terms of Reference - Institutional Development Study for Directorate
General of Cooperatives Business Promotion of Ministry of Cooperatives
4-1   RE Development Plan
4-2   Project Description and Design Considerations
4-3 Project Cost Estimates
4-4   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-5   Project Implementation Schedule
4-6 Terms of Reference - Master Plan for Rural Electrification;
Computerization of Planning and Design of RS Distribution System; and
Study, Design and Implementation of Data Base and Management Information
System for Rural Electrification
4-7   Training Program for the Improvement of Rural Electrification Management
4-8 Productive Uses Component - Background
4-9   Terms of Reference - Technical Advisor - Small Business Service
5-1   PLN's Financial Statements - Past Results and Forecasts
5-2   Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
5-3   PLN's Tariff
6-1   Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
6-2   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 22074



- iv -
INWONESTA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:      State Electricity Corporation (PLN)
Amount:           US$329.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan, except US$4.0 million which would
be made available to MOC for the implementation of its
project component, would be onlent from the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) to PLN for 20 years including a grace period
of five years; the onlending rate would be equal to the
Bank's standard variable interest rate plus fees o' 2.50Z.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect           The pronsped -ro,jert vo,1' aiport. tlie- dave1lnpnvit and
Description:    implementation of an efficient RE program in Indonesia.  It
comprises two components: (1) PLN component, including:
(i) implementation of PLN's rural electrification (RE)
investment program for a two-year time slice for 1990191 and
1991/92 to electrify about 4,500 villages: (ii) development
and implementation of a demonstration program for increasing
productive uses of electricity by small businesses in
selected pilot areas; and (iii) provision of technical
assistance/consulting services tot (a) upgrade PLN's
planning capability; (b) develop appropriate RE technical
specifications and construction standards; and (c) develop
and implement a data base and MIS to monitor countrywide RE
activities and operations; and (iv) training of PLN's RE
managerial and technical staff; and (2) MOC component,
including: (i) development and implementation of an action
program to strengthen the role of village cooperatives/
organizations in rural electrification; and
(ii) institutional development of MOC specifically related
to rural electrification, including: (a) consultancy
services to carry out an organization and management study
of MOC's Directorate of Industry and Electricity Business
Promotion; and (b) training of relevant staff; and
(iii) acquisition of training equipment and software
packages to support the above subcomponents.



Benefits:         The proposed project would provide electricity to about 1.3
million consumers in about 4,500 villages. It would
increase economic benefits of RE by reducing the unit costs
and by promoting productive uses of electricity. It would
strengthen the sector organizations, i.e. units within PLN
and MOC responsible for RE. through technical assistance and
training. It would also have an impact on poverty allevia-
tion by providing employment to the labor force in rural
areas for erecting the RE distribution works.
Risket            No major risks would be expected in the implementation of
the project. There may be some risks of delay in the imple-
mentation of certain subcomponents, e.g. productive uses and
HOC subcomponents, which would be minimized through pro-
vision of technical assistance and close project super-
vision. Possible effects on the environment (mainly from
the erection of medium and low voltage power distribution
lines) would be minimal.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign     Total
-------USI m-=on-------
PLN Comonent
nme ma aerl  s and poles                          12.6      154.4       167.0
Transformers and equipment                         1.3       31.4        32.7
Diesel sets                                         0.?       7.2         7.9
Construction costs                                54.5        0.0        54.5
House connections                                 44.3       71.3       115.6
Productive uses                                    1.5        3.4         4.9
Technical assistance                               0.9        2.0         2.9
Training
PlannIzng and construction                       0.6        1.5         2.1
O}perations                                      0.2        0.5         0.7
Engineering, construction supervision,
overhead and administration                     24.4        0.0        24.4
Base Cost                                   141.0      271.7       412.7
MOC C monent
IAstIEtuzionai development study                   0.2        1.5         1.7
Trainlng                                           0.1        0.8         0.9
Equipment for training                              0.1       1.5         1.6
Base Cost                                    0.4        3.8         4.2
Total Base Cost                                  141.4      275.5       416.9
Total physical contingencies                      14.2       29.2        43.4
Total price contingencies                         i2.7       25.6        38.3
Total Proiect Cost /a                            168.3      330.3       498.6
Interest during construction                       -         26.1        26.1
Total Financing xeauired                         168.3      356.4       524.7
la  PLN is exempted from duties and taxes on imported items.  Local costs
including VAT and other taxes estimated to be about US$13.1 million
equivalent.



- vi -
Financing Plans
Local     Foreign      Total
-_._----US$ million--------
PLY Component
IBRD                                                -       325.0        325.0
PLN                                                47.9      25.6/a       73.5
GOi                                               120.0        -         120.0
Japan Grant Facility                                -          0.8         0.8
Subtotal                                     167.9     351.4        519.3
MOC Component
IBRD                                                -          4.0         4.0
GOI                                                 0.4        0.5 /a      0.9
Japan Grant Facility                                -          0.5         0.5
Subtotal                                       0.4       5.0          5.4
Total Financing                                   168.3     356.4        524.7
La Interest during construction on the proposed Bank loan.
E.stimated Disbursementst     Bank FY      1991     1992      1993   1994
---------(US$ million)-------
Annual      67.4    144.4    86.9    30.3
Cumulative  67.4    211.8   298.7   329.0
Rate of Return:   151 on the 1990/91-1991192 time-slice of PLN's RE investment
program financed under the proposed project.



INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Power consumption in Indonesia increased rapidly during the past
decade, from about 50 kWh per capita in 1977 to 200 kWh per capita in 1988,
but remains low compared to the Philippines and Thailand (350-400 kVh per
capita). Rural electrification (RE) began to receive special attention only
in the late 1970s, when the Government of Indonesia (GOI) became concerned
about the uneven distribution of electricity in rural vis-a-vis urban areas
and asked the State Electricity Corporation (PLN) to reduce the gap. By 1989,
at the end of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1984/85-1988/89
(REPELITA IV), about 4.6 million rural consumers, or 182 of rural households,
in some 19,000 villages (302 of all villages), had received electricity. In
the ongoing REPELITA V (1989/90-1993/94), PLN is committed to electrify some
11,600 new villages, connecting more than 3 million new rural consumers, and
bringing the electrification ratio of t-he rural population to 29Z (against 75Z
urban) and the number of villages electrified to about 502. This rural elec-
trification ratio would still be below those already achieved in the
Philippines (up to 5C0) and Thailand (above 60Z).
1.2      The Government has requested Bank assistance to finance the implemen-
tation of a two-year time-slice (J990/91-1991/92) of PLN's rural electrifica-
tion program The proposed project, with the overall objective of supporting
the development and implementation of an efficient RE program in Indonesia,
would also be aimed at: (a) improving the planning of RE development through
strengthening of the planning capability of sectoral organizations; (b) reduc-
ing the unit cost of power distribution in rural areas through the revision
and adoption of appropriate technical design and construction standards and
improved procurement and construction procedures; (c) maximizing the economic
benefits of RE by increasing in-village connections and by promoting produc-
tive uses of electricity by small businesses; (d) reducing costs through
enhancement of the role of village cooperativeslorganizations in implementing
and operating the rural power systems; and (e) strengthening PLN's and MOC's
organizational units responsible for rural electrification.
1.3      The total project cost, exclusive of interest during construction, is
estimated at US$498.6 million equivalent including US$330.3 million in foreign
exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$329.0 million equivalent would finance
practically this entire foreign exchange requirement. The Japan Grant
Facility has agreed to provide US$1.3 million e, 4valent to finance the
balance of the foreign exchange requirement. The balance of the project cost
would be provided by PLN and GOI.
1.4      The Bank Group has provided GOI/PLN a total of about US$3.0 billion
since 1969 for power generation, transmission and distribution facilities
through 17 separate projects. While these projects contributed indirectly to
PLN's rural electrification efforts over the years, the Bank's specific
involvement with the RE program began in 1986 with the preparation of the



- 2 -
Rural Electrification Review (Report 6144-IND) which laid the groundwork for
continuing dialogue with the Government on policy, Institutional and technical
measures to improve the efficiency of RE investments. The proposed project,
with the objectives mentioned in para. 1.2, has emerged from this dialogue.
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
A. Energy Resources
2.1      Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including oil, gas,
coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. As oil dominates the economy,
accounting for 881 of comnercial energy consumption and for a major part of
export revenues, a major objective of the Government's energy policy has been
to diversify domestic energy consumption towards alternative fuels for which
there is a nonexportable surplus (gas and coal) or are nontradeable (hydro-
power and geothermal).
2.2      Oil.  Indonesia's original oil-in-place has been estimated at about
70 billion barrels, with proven remaining recoverable reserves of about 8-10
billion barrels. Production reached a peak of 1.7 million barrels per dt, in
1977, but declined to 1.3 million barrels per day in 1987 in response to
changing world market conditions and lower OPEC quotas. Production is expec-
ted to continue at about 1.1-1.3 million barrels per day until the year 2000.
2.3      Natural Gas.  Indonesia's recoverable natural gas reserves are esti-
mated at about 80 trillion stbddard cubic feet (TCF), of which 90Z is non-
associated and can be developed independently of oil production. Production
of natural gas reached 1.7 TCF in 1987, half of which was exported to Japan as
liquefied natural gas (LNG).
2.4      Coal.  Indonesia's coal reserves are estimated to be as high as 25
billion tons, located primarily in Sumatra and Kalimantan. Coal production,
currently at 2.7 million tons per year, will be increased substantially as
work on a three-million ton-per-year mine at Bukit Asam and on a 0.6 million
tot,-per-year mine at the nearby Nuara Tiga coal field is nearing completion.
Proven reserves in this area are over 600 million tons. A program to raise
the coal production at Ombilin in West Sumatra to 1.3 million tons per year,
mainly for export, is also being Implemented by GOI. In addition, in 1981,
GOI entered into a number of production-sharing agreements with private
foreign and Indonesian joint-venture companies for the exploration and exploi-
tation of coal reserves in Kalimantan. Coal reserves already defined by these
contractors and expected to be economically recoverable amount to about 700
million tons. The South Sumatra and Kalimantan coals have the potential for
sustaining a large program of coal-fired power generation in the country and
also provide for exports.
2.5      Hydronower.  Indonesia"s total hydroelectric resources are large but
development is limited by their geographic distribution relative to demand.
The greatest potential (over 351) lies in Irian Jaya where the demand is less



- 3 -
than 12 of total domestic demand, while Java, which accounts for 802 of elec-
tricity consumption, has less than 10? of the total potential. Existing
hydroelectric installations aggregate to 2,807 NW mostly located in Java
(1,840 NV), Sumatra (736 MW), and Sulawesi (203 MW). Schemes with a total
generating capacity of about 300 MV are currently under construction. A
countrywide resource survey, carried out by the State Electricity Corporation
(PLN), has produced an inventory of hydroelectric sites, the most proaising of
which have been followed up with feasibility studies.
2.6      Geothermal.  Surface mAnifestations of geothermal energy are found on
all islands except Kalimantan. Several sites have been investigated and one,
Kamojang in West Java, has been developed. It is believed that potential
reserves may approach 10.000 MW including 5,500 MW in lava, 1,400 KW in
Sulawesi, 1,100 MK in Sumatra and 2,000 MW in other itlands. GOI initiated
development of the Kamojang field in 1976. The first 30 KU generating set was
commissioned in 1983, and the expansion of the station by 110 MK was completed
in 1987. Further development potential exists in Kamojang. In 1982,
PERTAMINA (the National Oil and Gas Company) entered into a joint operation
contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of Union Oil of California, for
development of the Salak field in West Java. A potential of over 200 MK has
been proven by exploration. Also, PERTAMIMA has explored geothermal fields in
the Dieng and Drajat areas in Java, which appear promising for further
development. A decision has been taken to develop the Salak and Drajat fields
with 110 MV capacity each during the next five years.
B. Sector Organization
2.7      The principal agency responsible for implementing government policies
in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (NMM). -ME was
establishsd in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy sector and
control the five state enterprises responsible for the execution of government
policies in the energy subsectorst PERTAMINA for oil and gas, PGN for gas
distribution, P.N. Batubara and P.T. Bukit Asam for coal, and PLN for electri-
city. Other ministries and agancies are also involved in the sector, includ-
ing the Ministry of Public Works, which deals primarily vith hydropower
resource surveys, the Ministry of Forestry, which oversees forestry products,
the National Atomic Energy Commission, which is responsible for nuclear
development, and the Ministry of Cooperatives (MOC.), which is responsible for
enhancing the role of cooperatives in rural electrification. To ensure appro-
priate coordination of energy policy, the GOl established an interministerial
National Energy Board (BAKOREN) to oversee sectoral development. BAKOREN is
supported by a Technical Committee consisting of senior officials in different
departments, chaired by the Director General of Electric Power and New Energy
(DGEP). The organization chart of the MME is shown in Annex 2-1.
C. Electricity Subsector
2.8      Electricity consumption in Indonesia grew rapidly in the past decade,
with per capita consumption quadrupling from 50 kWh in 1977 to about 200 kWh
in 1988. Nonetheless, the current level of consumption of 200 kWh per capita



is relatively low compared to a level of about 350-400 kWh per capita in
Thailand and the Philippines. The low level of electricity consumption is
primarily due to lack of supply facilities and access to the network for the
residential and other sectors in both urban and rural areas. In 1987/88, only
242 of all households in Indcnesia were electrified. PLN's consumers and
sales growths are shown in Annex 2-2.
2.9      Principal sources of electricity supply in Indonesia are PLN and
self-generation (captive). mainly by industry.  PLN's total installed capacity
in 1987/88 was 6,421 MW, including 4,280 MW in Java and 2,141 MW in Outer
Islands. Of this total, 1,487 MW (222) is hydro, 1,420 (222) diesel-based,
2,520 (39.52) steam thermal (oil and coal), 924 MW (14.5S) gas turbine, and
240 MW (22) geothermal. Captive generation accounts for a sizable share, of
over 60Z of the country's installed capacity in 1976/77 declining to 43Z in
1987/88. Although captive generation capacity has continued to increase in
recent years, a more important trend has been a rapid shift by industrial
users from exclusive reliance on captive generation to use of captive genera-
tion for standby purposes only.
2.10     PLN's investment program in Java is designed to meet the following
important targets by the end of REPELITA V: (a) a 75S electrification ratio
in urban areas (up from 58Z in 1989); (b) a 292 electrification ratio in rural
areas (up from 182 in 1989); and (c) substitution of 802 of the captive gene-
ration in Java, which is currently 3,225 MVA. The Bank views these targets as
attainable if the supply can be expanded to meet them.  PLN's least-cost gene-
ration  apana ion programs for Java and outside 3ava fer the period 1988,139 to
1994/95, based on these expansion targets and the projected growth in the
industrial and commercial demand, are shown In Annexes 2-3 and 2-4. The
corresponding investment requirements for Indonesia and Java are shown in
Annexes 2-5 and 2-6. The Bank reviewed PLN's investment/development plans and
found them satisfactory. To ensure continued soundness of the development
program. the Bank agreed with the Government and PLN (Loan Agreements 3097-1NM
and 3098-IND dated July 21, 1989) thats (a) each year, PLN and GOI will
re"'iew with the Bank PLN's investment program so that the Bank can express its
views on the priorities and the balance among the generation, transmission,
and distribution investments; and (b) the Government will ensure that PLN has
access to sufficient funds to finance its capital expenditures as reviewed and
agreed with the Bank. This agreement will be repeated under the proposed
project.
D. Rural Electrification
1. DefinLtion of Rural Electrification
2.11     As expressed in the Government's Broad Outlines of State Policy, the
objective of power sector development is to improve the welfare of the popula-
tion, both in rural and urban areas, and to support and stimulate economic
activities.  While PLN had been connecting customers in rural villages since
the early years of its establishment, "rural electrification' (RE) began to
receive special attention and emerged as a specific objective only in the late
1970s, when the GO became concerned about the uneven distribution of electri-
city in rural vs. urban areas (para. 1.1). RE was then recognized as a major



- 5 -
component of the GOI's village development strategy, to be pursued on the
basis of its developmental merits, in addition to being an extension of PLN's
regular commercial activities. RE is thus defined as the supply of electri-
city to rural areas.l/
2. The Rural Environment
2.12     The rural areas account for about 732 of Indonesia'o population of
179 million, comprising about 26 million households. As with the total popu-
lation, two-thirds of the rural population is concentrated on Java and Bali,
where the population density, at about 800 persons/km2, ranks among the
highest in the world. The remaining one third of the rural population is much
more thinly distributed over the Outer Islands, with a density of only about
39 persons/km2. This contrast in population density helps explain the
differences between the electric development challenges facing Java, which
revolve around the extension of a major grid, from those faced in the Outer
Islands where, in addition to the extension of local grids, about 10t of the
RE program involves the use of small diesel sets to serve isolated areas.
2.13     A characteristic of the rural areas is that, in comparison with urban
areas, they have a much lower level of incomes and social development. Thus,
average rural incomes are only about 592 of urban incomes (51S in Java and 70Z
in the Outer Islands). This income difference is related to the pattern of
employment: in the rural areas, 682 of employment is in the primary sectors
(mainly agriculture), 112 in secondary Rectors, and 212 in services; in the
urban areas, the corresponding shares are 10?, 20? and 702. These income
differentials are accompanied by striking differences in social indicators,
such as the level of educational attainment and the availability of health
care. The urban/rural contrast is also evident in supply of electricity. As
of 1988, PLN was serving 582 of urban households, vs. only 182 in the rural
areas.
2.14     A second characteristic of the rural environment is that, for
development purposes, the basic unit is the village (desa), of which there are
about 61,000 in Indonesia.2/ The villages vary in size from an average of 666
households in Java to 519 in Sulawesi, 265 in Sumatra and 144 in Kalimantan.
For planning purposes, the GOI has defined a three-tiered classification of
villages, on the basis of their level of development.31 As of 1989, about 33?
1/  For planning purposes, the GOI defines rural areas as all areas not
situated within the National Capital or a Provincial Capital, District
Capital, Special Area Capital and Municipal or Administrative Towns.
2/ For planning and administrative purposes, a village (desa) is defined
as the rural area under the jurisdiction of a village head (kepala
desa), i.e., it may include one or more hamlets (kampung) and isolated
farmsteads.
3/ This ranking system, administered by the Ministry of Rome Affairs, is
based on a broad definition of "development' as measured by seven
indicators: (1) source of income, (2) level of production, (3) level
of modernization, (4) existence of village institutions,
(5) educational level, (6) community spirit, and (7) availability of
infrastructure.



- 6 -
of the villages are in the swasembada (self-sufficient) category, 53X are
swakarva (transitional) and 132 were swadaya (traditional). This classifica-
tion is used to coordinate the development efforts of the government agencies.
Thus, swasembada villages are entitled to get electricity, paved roads, bank
branches, etc.; swakarva villages get priority for water supply, gravel roads,
elementary schools, etc. The ultimate objective is, of course, to motivate
every village to attain swasembada status and to fully serve it with the basic
services and utilities.  The immediate (REPELITA V) target is that 502 of
villages should attain swasembada status by 1993.
3.  The Extent of Rural Electrification
2.15     As mentioned in para. 2.11, while PLN had been connecting customers
in rural villages since its establishment in 1972, rural electrification
emerged as a specific objective for implementation only in REPELITA III
(1979/80-1983/84) of the GOI. By the end of REPELITA III, PLN had connected
1.4 million customers in rural areas, or about 62 of rural households, far
below the then 35Z electrification ratio in urban areas. To reduce this
differential, the GOI had committed PLN to connect an additional 1.6 million
rural customers during REPELITA IV (i.e., by March 1989) which would have
raised the rural electrification ratio to 102. In actual performance, PLN
achieved more than twice the target level of connections, so that it now has
about 4.6 million rural customers, representing 18X of rural households.
2.16     Outside of PLN, a modest rural electrification effort is also carried
out by MOC. This effort was initiated in 1978 with a USAID-financed project
to set up demonstration electric cooperatives in three rural areas which were
not planned to be electrified by PLN in the near future. This effort was
continued in recent years with the result that eleven rural electric coopera-
tives (with self-generation of electricity) are currently established serving
about 39,000 customers in 227 villages outside of Java. While these rural
electric cooperatives provide a reasonable standard of service, their reliance
on diesel generation and small scale of operations require that they charge a
tariff nearly twice that of PLN's. Even so, they face difficulties in
sustaining themselves both technically and financially.
2.17     In addition to the GOI-sponsored efforts, there has been a prolifera-
tion of micro-enterprises providing a precarious and high-cost service to
small numbers of customers in a large number of villages (about 17,000).4/ In
view of the small size of the required investments ($1,000-2,000), such micro-
enterprises are easy to establish but difficult to sustain, as they cannot
afford the requisite technical and managerial skills, financial stability, and
legal status. As a result, their service is generally of a low standard, and
they are regarded by their operators and customers only as a makeshift solu-
tion until such time as PLN's service can be extended into the area. Also,
because of their limited technical and organizational development, neither the
equipment nor the skills employed by these micro-enterprises are compatible
with PLN's system, and there are no assets that PLN can use when it eventually
reaches the area.
4/ They typically consist of one person operating a 2-5 kVA genset 4-5
hours/day, servicing 15-70 households.



S. Sector Oblectives and Priorities
2.18     In view of Indonesia's rich endowment in energy resources, the over-
all main objectives of the energy sector ares (a) to maximize export earnings
by promoting the development of tradeable energy resources including oil, gas
and coal; and (b) to meet the country's growing energy requirements in a least
cost way, and conserve exportable petroleum reserves, by encouraging the
domestic market to substitute oil consumption by alternative fuels for which
there is a nonexportable surplus (gas and coal) or which are nontradeable
(hydropower and geothermal). In pursuing these objectives, the Government's
policy agenda includes, inter alia, the rationalization of energy prices, the
liberalization of the institutional framework aimed at increasing the
efficiency of sectoral organizations, and the encouragement of private sector
investments, both foreign and domestic, in the development of energy
resources.
2.19     With regard to rural electrification, the main objective is to
support the development of rural areas by increasing the welfare of the people
and stimulating the growth of economic activities. RE is, therefore, an
integral part of the Government's rural development strategy and the long-term
target is to electrify all villages. Coordination with Government investments
in other forms of rural infrastructure and social services is carried out
through the Provincial Planning Commissions (BAPPEDA) in each province. In
broad outline, this coordination system is carried out through the system of
village classification described in para. 2.14. A second important objective
of rural electrification is to promote the development of the country in a
balanced manner, not only in relation to urban/rural differentials, but also
in relation to interregional differences. In view of this objective, PLN has
been asked to pursue a uniform level of household electrification in all parts
of the country, and to give priority to the electrification of subdistrict
(Kecamatan) capitals, of which about 994 (out of 2,997) remain unelectrified.
2.20     The developmental benefits of RE are also enhanced through a coopera-
tive arrangement between MWE and IOC, under which selected PLY functions are
being transferred to village cooperatives and enterprises. The objective of
this effort is to reduce PLN's costs and provide an opportunity for the
development of village-level managerial, technical and labor resources. Under
the existing arrangements, there are four oola (schemes) for the participation
of village cooperatives in the RE programs
(a) Pola I: the cooperative handles metering, billing and light mainte-
nance functions as a contractor for PLN, on a fee-for-service basis;
(b) Pola II: the cooperative installs house wiring as a contractor of
the customer, with a license and a price schedule approved by PLN;
(c) Pola III: the cooperative purchases electricity in bulk and takes
over all local distribution functions; and
(d) Pola IV: the cooparative generates and distributes electricity,
independently of PLN, subject to GOI regulation.



- 8 -
2.21     Since the establishment of this framework in 1979, Pola I and Pola II
schemes have been taken by 817 village cooperatives serving 5,344 villages
(out of 19,000 villages electrified by PLN), mostly concentrated on Java. To
date, only one Pola III and eleven Pola IV schemes (including three major
USAID-financed schemes; the others are relatively minor) have been estab-
lished, as mentioned in para. 2.6. Given PLN's rapidly advancing electrifica-
tion and its selection of the largest and most viable villages, the main
constraint to the establishment of further Pola IV schemes is the difficulty
of assembling a territory that has enough potential customers (at least
10-15,000) to enable them to afford the technical and managerial expertise
needed for long-term sustainability. In addition, the fact that they would
have to charge a substantially higher tariff than that of PLN makes it
unrealistic for them to take over any villages that are already being served
by PLN.
2.22     The continuation of a strategy to lower the costs of RE by enhancing
the role of village enterprises will have to focus on the transfer of addi-
tional utility functions. PLN is already moving in this direction. At
present, virtually all of PLN's RE-related construction, line services and
customer administration have been contracted out to private enterprises or
village cooperatives. For the future, the scope of functions to be entrusted
to contractors could be expanded to include management service contracts for
the operation of diesel plants and the takeover of all operation and mainte-
nance for selected local systems. The proposed project, through the implemen-
tation of Pola I and IX and pilot management service arrangements (para. 4.4),
would facilitate PLN's move in this direction.
F. Promotion of Productive Uses of Electricity
2.23     Experience from a variety of developing countries suggests that the
arrival of RE can contribute to the development of economic activities which
take advantage of electricity for productive uses such as: (i) lighting;
(ii) water pumping for irrigation; (iii) motive power; and (iv) cooling. In
Indonesia, the development of productive uses of electricity in rural areas
appears to be below the achievable potential. While most small businesses and
small cottage industries adopt electric lighting (in lieu of kerosene lamps)
as soon as it becomes available, there is only a modest amount of new economic
activity and employment creation that seems to follow upon the electrification
of a village. The main factors that appear to have constrained the use of
electricity for productive purposes are the followings
(a) PLN's tariff structures the lump sum required to pay the deposit,
connection and installation charges serves as a barrier to connec-
tion, and the fixed monthly demand charge limits the interest of
potential seasonal users;
(b) PLN's tariff regulations: the minimum connection of 3.8 kVA for the
smallest industrial tariff category (1-1) has tended to make this
tariff inaccessible to small and cottage industries;



- 9 -
Cc) the limited availability of complementary inputs: the weak supply of
capital, technology, markets and other infrastructure has limited the
ability of electricity-using activities to develop;
(d)  PLN's village selection processs  until recently, PLN only considered
the villages' classification and distance from the grid, but not the
potential for development of small businesseslindustries;
(e)  physical system desiRn and performances  the lack of daytime opera-
tions in most areas served by isolated diesel units and problems with
system reliability have discouraged potential productive users; and
(f)  PLN's passive approach to marketings  PLN's concept of customer
service is limited to customer administration (marketing, billing and
collection) and the repair of outages.
2.24     Recently, the effect of several of these factors has been ameliorated
through the actions of PLN and other agenciess (a) the concerns related to
the tariff structure have been addressed, in part, by the availability of
installment payment arrangements and tariff revisions (in April 1989) under
which seasonal users will receive a reduction in the fixed monthly demand
charge during the off-season; (b) as of April 1989, the minimum connected
power for small industrial (1-1) customers has been reduced to 450 VA, thus
making most cottage and small industries eligible for this tariff; (c) the
availability of complementary inputs is being addressed through a wide array
of government, nongovernment and private actions to provide credit, training
and markets to rural producers; (d) PLN now considers productive use potential
among the criteria that are used in the selection of villages for electrifica-
tion; and (e) PLN is giving regional managers greater flexibility to improve
the quality of supply by installing three-phase systems (rather than single-
phase lines) whenever the demand arises. While these are steps in the right
direction, additional measures would need to be taken to broaden PLN's
approach to customer service to include marketing and technical assistance to
existing and potential customers. These specific measures are included in the
proposed project and elaborated in paras. 4.21-4.28.
G. Bank's Role and Strategy
2.25     The Government's sectoral objectives have been supported through the
Bank's involvement in the power, gas and coal subsectors. In the power sub-
sector, the Bank has supported the rapid expansion of Indonesia,s power sector
through the financing of 17 projects since 1969 (para. 1.4). These projects
have assisted PLN to expand in a least cost manner and diversify its sources
of fuels by introducing coal and geothermal plants, developing hydroelectric
potential, creating an integrated 500 kV grid on Java, extending distribution
facilities, reducing transmission and distribution losses, and enhancing its
institutional capacities, particularly its capability to carry out a rapid
expansion program. More recently, the Bank's support has focussed on develop-
ing PLN into a modern and efficient utility by: (a) strengthening technical,
financial and corporate planning; (b) improving organization and management;
(c) improving operating efficiency; and (d) developing human resources.



- 10 -
2.26     The Bank's specific involvement with the RE program began in 1986
with the preparation of the Rural Electrification Review (para. 1.4) which
laid the groundwork for continuing dialogue on technical, policy and institu-
tional measures to improve the efficiency of RE investments. On the basis of
this dialogue with the GOI and PLN, the following strategy was developed:
(a) the comprehensive revision of technical design and construction standards
for RE to adapt them to the lower load density prevailing in rural areass
(b) the reduction of the cost of equipment and materials by, inter alia,
(i) improvement of procurement procedures including measures such as the adop-
tion of international competitive bidding; and (ii) improvement in the
training and supervision of local construction contractors; (c) the revision
of village selection criteria to include additional factors that have a direct
bearing on economic viability, such as the potential for the development of
small businesses/industries; (d) the enhancement of the economic benefits of
RE by an active marketing program to connect actual and potential productive
users of electricity; (e) the reduction in operating cost and improvements of
the developmental benefits of RE through the transfer of certain utility func-
tions from PLN to village enterprises and cooperatives under the existing Pola
1 and 2 arrangements and broader management services agreements; (f) the
improvement of RE planning through the preparation of an optimized long-range
development plan for RE; and (g) the strengthening of the PLY and MOC units
responsible for RE. The proposed project is designed to support the above
strategy.
H. Previous Bank Group Projects
2.27     As mentioned in paras. 1.4 and 2.25, the Bank Group has provided
about US$3.0 billion since 1969 for power generation, transmission and distri-
bution facilities through 17 separate projects. Six transmission and distri-
bution projects and a recently approved Power Sector Efficiency Project
(Credits 165-IND and 334-IND, and Loans 1259-IND, 2056-IND, 2443-IND, 2778-IND
and 3097-IND) rehabilitated and expanded the distribution facilities in Java.
Eleven power projects (Credit 399-IND and Loans 1127-IND, 1365-IND, 1513-INtw
1708-IND, 1872-IND, 1950-IND, 2214-IND, 2300-IND, 2443-ID and 3098-IND)
assisted PLN to expand electricity generation capacity in Java, to provide a
strong all-Java 500 kV grid, to extend distribution facilities, to reduce
system transmission and distribution losses, and to introduce a pilot program
of mini-hydro development in Sumatra. Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) and Project Completion Reports (PCRs) on the first ten projects
(Credits 165-IND, 334-IND, 399-TND and Loans 1127-IND, 1259-IND, 1365-11W,
1513-IND, 1708-IND, 1872-1IN, 1950-IND and 1950-1-IND) have been issued. They
conclude that these projects achieved the objectives set out at the time of
the appraisal and were implemented within the budget. Taken together, these
projects have enhanced PLN's institutional capabilities, particularly its
capability to carry out a rapid system expansion program. Currently, PLN
handles an investment expenditure of over $1.0 billion and connects over one
million new consumers, each year. However, the problems encountered in the
earlier projects, relating to the need to reduce implementation delays by
timely appointment of consultants, and speedier procurement and construction,
still persist, though to a reduced extent. PLN and GOI are both aware of them
and are addressing them at the institutional as well as the national level.



- 11 -
The Bank has been actively associated with the Government in the resolution of
these issues, which are common to many sectors. The last PPAR (Report
No. 7902) dated June 26, 1989 (for the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Power Projects)
concludes that the Bank's involvement in the Indonesian power sector over the
past twenty years was a success becauses the Bank had a broad vision of what
it wanted to accomplish in the sector and this vision was shared by the other
entities involved; it translated the vision into a long-term strategy, which
it persistently pursued, while remaining flexible in conception and implemen-
tation of individual measures; its projects fitted into this strategy--rather
than being self-contained, they complemented each other. Also, the Bank
deliberately chose limited objectives, consistent with the broad strategy, and
struck a reasonable balance between physical and institutional development.
III. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Introduction
3.1      The proposed loan would be made to the Government of Indonesia.  The
proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to PLN (through an
onlending agreement) and MOC, which are responsible for the implementation of
their respective components of the proposed project. PLN, the sole
government-owned national power utility, has been the beneficiary of Bwnk
Group lending to the power sector in Indonesia since 1969 (para. 2.25). MOC
would implement its project component through the Directorate of Industry and
Electricity Business Promotion (DBUK) of its Directorate General for
Cooperative Business Promotion.
D. The State Electricity Corporation (PLN)
1. Organization and Management
3.2      PLN was established as a public corporation (Perum) under
Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility for the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity and the planning, construction
and operation of electricity supply facilities. PLN is managed by a Board of
Directors headed by a President Director, who is appointed by the President
and is accountable to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The President
Director has authority for all operations of PLN. The Board currently
includes five other directors with functional responsibility, respectively,
for planning, construction, operations, finance and administration.
Operational responsibility devolves in 17 regions, and responsibility for
major construction in 12 project managers. Also reporting to the Board are
several staff units responsible for power research, education and training,
management services, an internal audit unit called the Corporation
Inspectorate, the Java system operation and control unit, and a newly estab-
lished Engineering Services Center. PLN's organization chart is shown in
Annex 3-1.



- 12 -
3.3      PLN has grown rapidly in the past decade.  Since 1977178, it has
connected new consumers at a fast increasing rate, from about 370,000 in
1978/79 to about 1,070,000 in 1988189. The rapid expansion of supply facili-
ties, which is expected to continue over the next several years, involves
increasingly complex technical and managerial tasks, for which PLN will need
to continue to strengthen its institutional capacity. Areas that need
strengthening have been recognized, and actions and programs are either
already underway or planned, in many cases with assistance from the Bank.
These actions and programs are designed to support PLN's efforts in the
following major areas of planning, organization and management, improvement in
operating efficiency, and manpower development and training.
3.4      Through the years, PLN has strengthened its technical planning
activities in the areas of generation, transmission and distribution. The
generation and transmission planning functions are now well established in PLN
and are functioning smoothly. The emphasis now rests on improving the
planning, operation, maintenance and management of distribution facilities,
for which responsibility is largely dispersed in PLN's regional offices.
Technical assistance for the strengthening of PLN's distribution management
functions is provided under the Power Sector Efficiency Project (Loan
3097-IND). Also, to strengthen the corporate planning function, PLN has set
up, as part of the 1988 reorganization, planning units in the functional
directorates and the regional offices, with the corporate planning division in
the planning directorate having the responsibility for the overall
coordination of the planning activities (para. 3.3). Technical assistance
provided under the Power Sector Efficiency Project (Loan 3097-IND) will help
develop further PLN's corporate planning as well as financial planning
functions.
?.5      Annex 3-2 shows some of the performance indicators for PLN for the
years 1979/80 to 1988189; they indicate significant achievements in several
areas. However, further improvements are possible and necessary. Under the
Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND) and the Power
Sector Efficiency and Paiton Thermal Power Projects (Loans 3097-IND and
3098-IND), PLN agreed to carry out an action plan for such improvements, which
is under implementation. The major components of this action plan are:
(i) efficiency improvement in distribution including reduction in losses;
(ii) conversion of selected oil-fired thermal plants to gas-firing;
(iii) improvements in the operation of major thermal power plants;
(iv) improvements in the operation and maintenance of diesel power plants,
including their relocation and rehabilitation; and (v) renovation of small
hydro plants. The agreement to carry out the action plan will be repeated
under the proposed project.
3.6      To provide a broader framework and longer-term perspective for the
institutional development of the power sector, the Bank has recently carried
out a Power Sector Institutional Development Review (Report No. 7929-IND,
dated December 20, 1989). The objective of the review was to identify the
regulatory and institutional conditions under which the continued rapid expan-
sion of the sector could be carried out with the greatest efficiency and
effectiveness. The results of the review suggest that the principal condition
will be the creation of an environment within which PLN and the other partici-
pants in the sector will be motivated to apply their initiative and creativity
to reduce costs and improve service in the course of achieving the targeted



- 13 -
expansion. As a general direction, the creation of such an environment vill
require a shift towards greater reliance on guidance through incentives rather
than administrative intervention and on decentralized decision-making rather
than centralized control, while also taking advantage of the pressures created
through competitive comparison. This study was presented to the Government in
December 1989 and is expected to provide a basis for future cooperation with
the Government on the reform of the regulatory framework for the power sector
in Indonesia.
2. Staff Development and Training
3.7      As of March 31, 1989, PLN had about 51,200 employees, of whom about
37,300 are employed on the permanent payroll. PLN has no difficulty in
recruiting staff educated at levels up to technical high school, but less than
42 of the staff have university degrees. To address its training problems,
PLN has a separate department for training. This department, known as
PUSDIKLAT, plays an important role in PLN's efforts to upgrade the skills of
its technical and administrative staff, and manages ten training centers with
a staff of about 470, including about 180 trained instructors. PLY expends
considerable effort in the training of staff not only within the organization,
but also through student scholarship and foreign training. These efforts have
been largely successful. In 1988189, about 7,000 staff received training of
various durations, including about 200 staff trained overseas.
3.8      The Bank has been supporting PLN's training activities and human
resources development efforts, including the establishment of several training
centers. Currently, three major training efforts are well underway with
assistance provided under the Twelfth Power Project (Loan 2214-IND). They
are: (i) technical assistance to reorganize and enlarge the entire manpower
development, training and personnel management functions for middle- and
lower-level staff; (li) setting up new training centers, for thermal power
plants, transmission lines and middle-level managers; and (iii) a program for
the training of senior- and middle-level personnel outside Indonesia in tech-
nical and financial areas. Progress under these activities has been satisfac-
tory. In addition, under the Paiton Thermal Power and Power Sector Efficiency
Projects (Loans 3097-IND and 3098-lIND), specific training is provided in the
areas of diesel/thermal plant operations, distribution management, corporate
and financial planning, general accounting and cash management. The proposed
project would provide for specific training activities in the rural electrifi-
cation area.
3. Accounting and Budaeting
3.9      PLN's accounting system, installed in the early 1970s, follows
generally accepted aecounting principles, and normal utility practices, but it
needs upgrading to keep pace with the growing complexity and volume of
accounting transactions. There is need for improvement with respect to the
completeness and accuracy of fixed asset accounting, depreciation, inventory
accounting and accounts receivables. The accounting system needs to produce
more accurate information in a timely manner for decision-making purposes.
Also, PLN's internal procedures for preparing budgets and monitoring actual
expenditures need to be strengthened through better coordination among and
participation by the various functional directorates and regional cffices in
the process, to enhance the budget's value as a management tool.



- 14 -
3.10     Under the Eleventh Power Project (Loan 2056-ND), funds were provided
for management consultancy for developing an integrated system for budgeting,
accounting, and financial reporting. This study is complete and its recommen-
dations are in various stages of Implementation. PLN has engaged or is
engaging consultants to improve fixed assets accounting, cost accounting, and
inventory management. Since 1987, PLN is implementing an action plan to
Improve its accounting practices and functions by (i) establishing a uniform
accounting system, (ii) improving related support systems, (iii) sensitizing
concerned nonfinancial maiagers and staff to the importance of timely and
accurate accounting, (iv) upgrading the skills of the accounting staff through
in-house and external training courses, and (v) computerizing the accounting
process. Through its recent reorganization, PLN is also attempting to improve
coordination between its departments and its regional offices in the areas of
budget preparation, and monitoring and evaluation of performance as discussed
in para. 3.3. Tie Power Sector Efficiency Project (Loan 3097-ThD) provides
technical assistan:e to improve further the accounting system. The proposed
project would provide technical assistance to continue to improve PLN's RE
accounting to enhance the transparency of its RE operations (para. 4.19).
4. Billing and Collections
3.11     PLN's bills are computerized and prepared monthly at the Jakarta
headquarters. Overall collection performance is generally satisfactory. The
receivables position of general consumer accounts has been good, as it has
been kept at about one and one-half months of the yearly billing. The collec-
tions from government users (including the Armed Forces and local govern-
ments), which account for about lo% of its total sales, have also improved
markedly in recent years. The Government has taken various measures to
successfully reduce overdue government accounts--from over one year in 1981182
to under two months' billing in the past two years.
5. Audit and Internal Control
3.12     PLU's accounts are required by its charter to be audited by
Government auditors. The audits are carried out following generally accepted
accounting practices and standards. The audit reports in recent years have
received qualified opinions from the auditors. In the latest report for
1987/88, the qualification related to PLN's inventory accounts. The magnitude
of discrepancies is not so large as to render the accounts unacceptable; the
Bank has, therefore, considered them acceptable. Since 1983, PLN has made
special efforts to expedite the closing of accounts and has succeeded in
completing them usually within six months after the close of the fiscal year
as stipulated by Government for all public corporations. PLN is also taking
measures to train its accounting staff and has prepared computerization plans
to expedite accounts processing (para. 3.9). Government audits normally take
about three months. While the unaudited accounts are generally finalized and
received in time, there are still delays in auditing of accounts. These
delays have been largely due to protracted discussions between PFN and the
auditors on matters that have been the subject of qualified opinions from the
auditors. As these delays are expected to be transitory, the audit covenant
under Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND, which requires PLN to submit to the Bank
its unaudited accounts no later than six months and the audited financial
statements and the report of such audits no later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year, will be repeated under the proposed project.                     N



- 15 -
3.13     PLN has an effective internal audit group which reports to the
President Director for various special investigations, in addition to keeping
general and project accounting matters under review.
6.  .nsurance
3.14     PLN currently carries transit and marine insurance on equipment and
materials in transit. Projects under construction are covered by the contrac-
tor's all risk and erection insurance. Fire and other hazards on most of the
assets in operation are as yet self-insured. In view of the geographical
spread of PLN's assets, any single loss would be relatively small by compari-
son with total assets and operations, and this policy has been accepted by the
Bank. However, some very large projects have recently been completed and
others now under implementation would result in a greater concentration of
assets in certain locations than in the past. As agreed under the Fourteenth
Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), with assistance from a local insurance company,
PLN carried out a review of its insurance practices and requirements. As a
result of the review, PLN took out commercial insurance for all the major
operating plant and equipment at the Huara Karang and Suralaya thermal plants.
An understanding was reached under Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND that major
works, plant and equipment at other large projects such as the recently
completed Saguling, Cirata and Mrica hydroelectric plants and the Paiton
Thermal Power Project, would be insured with outside agencies.
C. The Ministry of Cooperatives (MOC) - Directorate General of
Cooperatives Business Promotion (DBUR)
3.15     As mentioned in para. 2.16, MOC's involvement in rural electrifica-
tion began in 1978, when it served as the implementing agency (through its
former Directorate for the Promotion of Electric Cooperatives and Project
Development Office) for a USAID-financed project to set up demonstration elec-
tric cooperatives in three rural areas in Lampung (South Sumatra), Lombok
(West Nusa Tenggara) and Luwu (South Sulawesi), which are the three major Pola
IV schemes mentioned in para. 2.20. Through its Directorate for the Promotion
of Electric Cooperatives, MOC also collaborates with PLN for the implementa-
tion of the joint MOC-MME program to promote the role of village cooperatives
and organization in rural electrification, including the Pola I-IV arrange-
ments discussed in paras. 2.20 and 2.21. MOC is also represented in an
Advisory Team for Electric Power Development in Rural Areas established in May
1989 by a decree of the Minister of NMZ. An organization chart of MOC is
shown in Annex 3-3.
3.16     MOC's involvement in rural electrification is currently handled
through its Directorate General of Cooperatives Business Promotion (Direktorat
Jenderal Bina Usaha Koperasi, DBUK). DBUK, among other things, took over the
functions of the former Directorate for the Promotion of Electric Cooperatives
and Project Development Office. Technical assistance would be provided under
the proposed protect to carry out a comprehensive institutional development
review of DBUI's organization/unit responsible for RE-related activities.
This review study is aimed at defining its role atd functions, organization,
sta;ting and training requirements as well as operating procedures and manage-
ment systems. The terms of reference for this study are shown in Annex 3-4.



- 16 -
The proposed project also includes provisions for training of relevant DBUK
staff as well as for acquisition of training equipment and software packages
as necessary to strengthen DBUK and to support the developmentlimplementation
of its action programs to enhance the role of village cooperatives and
organizations in rural electrification (para. 4.4).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Backfround and RE Development Plan
4.1      A model (Model-PLN), developed with the assistance of NESA A/S Ltd.
of Denmark arranged by the Bank, is used by PLN for the preparation of the
five-year development plans for RE as inputs to GOI's general Five-Year
Development Plans (REPELITA). The most recent five-year development plan for
RE was prepared together with REPELITA V for 1989/90-1993/94, which has a
target of electrifying about 11,600 villages during this period.
4.2      PLr has prepared year-by-year RE plans for the REPELITA V period for
electrifying 11,600 villages. Over this five-year period, PLN envisages the
connection of about 3 million new RE consumers to the national grid or to the
isolated diesel generating stations, and the construction of about 85,000 kmc
(circuit-km) of MV and LV power lines, about 1,500,000 kVA transformer capa-
city, and about 24,000 kW diesel capacity in the 27 provinces of Indonesia.
The total cost of PLN's RE construction program for REPELITA V is estimated at
about Rp 1,800 billion (US$1 billicn) based on constant mid-1989 prices.
Drtails of the RE Development Plan is shown in Annex 4-1.
B. Proiect Oblectives
4.3      The overall objective of the proposed project would be to support the
development and implementation of an efficient RE program in Indonesia.
Specific project objectives ares
Mi) to construct facilities to electrify about 4,500 new villages during
1990/91 and 1991/92;
(ii) to improve the planning of rural electrification subsector develop-
ment through strengthening of the planning capability of sectoral
organizations;
(iii) to reduce the unit cost of electricity distribution in rural areas
through the revision and adoption of appropriate technical design and
construction standards and improved procurement and construction
procedures;
(iv) to maximize the economic benefits of RE by increasing in-village
connections and by increasing productive uses of electricity by small
businesses;



- 17 -
(v)  to reduce costs through enhancement of the role of village coopers-
tives/organizations implementing and operating the rural power
systems; and
(vi) to strengthen PLN's and MOC's organizational units responsible for
rural electrification.
C. Proiect Description
4.4      The Project would comprise two componentst
(I)  PLN Component:  comprising:
(i) implementation of PLN's RE investment program, for a two-year time-
slice for 1990/91 and 1991/92, which would provide for the electrifi-
cation of about 4,500 new villages, construction of about 33,000 km-
circuit (kmc) of MV and LV power lines, installation of 571,000 kVA
transformer capacity and 11,000 kW diesel generation capacity and
connection of about 1.3 million new consumers:
(ii) development and implementation of a pilot demonstration program for
increasing productive uses of electricity by small businesses in a
number of selected pilot areas in the provinces of Central Java,
North Sumatra and South Sulawesi;
(iii) provision of technical assistance/consulting services to:
(a)  upgrade PLN's planning capability for the preparation of an
optimized long-range RE Development Plan;
(b)  develop appropriate RE technical specifications and construction
standards and standardized/computerized bid documents; and
(c)  develop and implement a database and management information
system (MIS) to monitor countrywide RE activities and
operations; and
(iv) training of PLN's managerial and technical staff responsible for RE
operations; and
(II) HOC Component: comprisingt
(i)  development/implementation of an action program to strengthen the
role of village cooperatives/organizations in rural electrification.
This would involve the training of the personnel of village coopera-
tives and organizations to achieve the targets for Pola I and Pola II
arrangements in REPELITA V, and to implement, on a pilot basis, a
numbe; of amanagement services arrangements' (MSA) whereby, village
cooperatives/organizations would operate and maintain PLN's power
schemes/systems in their areas under management services contracts
with PLN (under MSA, village cooperatives/organizations would receive
from PLN a fee for such services; ownership of the systems would
remain with PLN);



- 18 -
(ii) Institutional development of MOC specifically relited to rural
electrification, Including:
(a) consultancy services to carry out an organization and management
study of MOC's Directorate General of Cooperatives Business
Promotion vith respect to its rural electrification functions;
and
(b)  training of the relevant staff of MOC's Directorate General of
Cooperatives Business Promotion responsible for management.
planning and monitoring of its activities in rural
electrification; and
(ii)  acquisition of training iquipment and software packages necessary to
support the above subcomponents.
4.5      The description of PLN's RE investment component of the proposed
project is further elaborated in Annex 4-2. Since the proposed project would
cover a two-year time slice of the RE Development Plan, and further to an
existing agreement with G00 and PLN to review with the Bank annually PLN's
investment plan (para. 2.10), agreements have been reached that, PLN, by
November 15 of each year, commencing November 15, 1990, and until completion
of the proposed project, exchanSe views with the Bank on its proposed rural
electrification Investment program for the next fiscal year, and that the GOI
would review with the Bank by January 31 of each year, commencing January 31,
1991, and until the completion of the proposed project, PLN's annual Invest-
ment plan for RE before its final approval.
D. System Design Considerations
4.6      PLN's original RE system design was established on the basis of its
urban power distribution construction design standards and the technical
specifications. The urban power distribution standards are, in general,
developed for electrification of relatively high-density electric energy-
consumption areas. Rural areas are, in general, not high-density consumption
areas. Thus, PLN has recently developed a relatively lighter construction
design for rural electrification. PLY estimates that ':he new RE design could
provide substantial savlngs (estimated by PLN at about 302) in RE construc-
tion, accruing from using smaller conductor and cable sizes, transformers vith
mlinimal electrical equipment (because of low load density In rural areas) and
shorter concrete p"les with less steel. PLN has now prepared the new techni-
cal specifications based on the new construction design standards. This
project's bidding documents and cost estimates are also prepared on the basis
of the new design and technical specifications. Design improvement is a
contin%ous process and would require research to utilize evolving technology
developed around the world. The proposed technical assistance under the
project would help establish procedures for the transfer of developing design
technology to PLN through the procurement of software and hardware and the
professional training program. Further information regarding the system
design is given in Annex 4-2.



- 19 -
E. Protect Cost Estimates
4.7      The estiL  ted cost of the project, including physical and price
contingencies, is about US$498.6 million. The financing required, including
interest during construction and financing charges on the Bank loan, is about
US$524.7 million. The forelgn exchange cost of the project is estimated at
US$330.3 million, exclusive of interest during construction. The cost esti-
mates are based on December 1989 prices. Physical contingencies of 101 have
been added on all material, equipment and services costs. Price contingencies
have been calculated on the basis of the following inflation factorst for
local costs, 72 in 1990, and 5 in 1991 and onwards; for foreign exchange
costs, 7.22 in 1990, and 4.42 in 1991 and onwards. The cost estimates are net
of duties and taxes for the Inported items since PLN is exempt from them.
Local costs include VAT and other taxes, estimated to be about US$13.1 million
equivalent.
4.8      The detailed project cost estimates are given in Annex 4-3 and summa-
rized below:
t!



- 20 -
SUMMARY Of PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(December 1989 prices)
Re bi  lilon          USS illon         Foroign as
Local For ion Total Local Foreign Totml X of Total
PLN Component
Lini,eiterials and pole.                22.4  278.5  295.9  12.6  154.4  167.0           92
Transtormrs and equipment                2.8   6.6   57.9    1.8   81.4   82.7           go
Diesel s*to                              1.2   12.7   18.9   O.7    7.2    7.9           91
Constructlon costs                      96.6    0.0   96.6  64.6    0.0   54.6            -
House connoctions                       78.6  126.2  204.7  44.8   71.8  115.6           62
Productive uses                          2.6    6.0    8.6   1.6    8.4    4.9           s9
Technical assistance                     1.6    8.6    6.1   0.9    2.0    2.9           s0
Traintng
Planning and construction              1.1    2.7    8.8   0.6    1.6    2.1           71
Operations                             0.4    0.9    1.8   0.2    0.6    0.7           71
Engineering/supervialon and overhead    48.2    0.0   48.2  24.4    0.0   24.4            -
sBse Cost                           249.7  491.2  780.9  141.0  271.7  412.7          67
Physical contingencles                  26.1   60.7   76.0  14.2   2..6   42.8           67
Price contingencie                      16.2   44.9   67.4  18.7   26.5   88.2           67
Total Prolect Cost (P14N            297.8  576.0  874.1  87.9  826.8  490.7           66
Zfttrest durlng construction (PLN)       0.0   46.4   46.4   0.0   26.6   26.6            -
Total Financing Recuired (OPLN      297.8  622.2  919.6  167.9  851.4  519.8          67
MOC Comnent
3n titutional development                0.I     2.7    8.0   0.2    1.5    1.7          88
Training (planning and construction)     0.2    1.4    1.6   0.1    0.8    0.9           69
Equipment for training                   0.2    2.7    2.9   0.1        1.6    1.6       94
Base Cost                             0.7      .8    7.5   0.4    8.8    4.2          90
Physical contingencies                   0.0    0.7    0.7   0.0    0.6    0.6            -
Price contingences                       0.0    0.4    0.4   0.0    0.1    0.1            -
Total Prolect Cost (MOC)              0.7    7.9    8.6   0.4    4.5    4.9           91
Interest during construction (MOC)       0.0    0.8    0.8   0.0    0.6    0.5            -
Total Financing Recuired OMC)         0.7    8.7    9.4   0.4    5.0    5.4           92
Totals
floi bae cost                          260.4  468.0  786.4  141.4  275.5  416.9           66
Total physical contingencies            25.1   51.4   76.5  14.2   29.2   48.4           67
Total price contingencles               22.5   45.8   67.8  12.7   26.6   88.8           67
Total Project Cost /a               298.0  584.7  882.7  168.8  880.8  498.6          se
Total lnter"t during construction        -      46.2   46.2    -       26.1   26.1
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED            298.0  680.9  928.9  166.8  356.4  624.7          68
La PLN Is exempted from duties and taxes on Imported Items.  Local costs include VAT and other
taxe estimated t2 be about USB18.1 million equivalent.



- 21 -
F. Project Financing
4.9      The proposed Bank loan of US$329.0 million equivalent would meet
nearly 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of the project exclusive of interest
during construction, or about 63? of the total financing required. The
proposed financing plan is summarized in the following table.
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local          Foreign           Total
----------- (US$ million) -----------
PLN Component
IBID                         -             325.0            325.0            62
PL.                         47.9            25.6L&            73.5           14
GO?                        120.0             -               120.0           22
Japan Grant Facility         -               0.8               0.8            -
Subtotal                167.9          351.4             519.3            g8
MOC Component
IBRD                         -               4.0               4.0            1
GOI                          0.4             O.S/a             0.9            1
Japan Grant Facility         -               0.5               0.5            -
Subtotal                  0.4            5.0               5.4             2
Total Financing         168.3          356.4             524.7           100
la  Interest during construction on the proposed Bank loan.
4.10     The proposed Bank loan of US$329.0 million equivalent would be made
to the Government. Of this loan amount, US$4.0 million equivalent would be
made available to MOC, and the balance of US$325.0 million equivalent would be
onlent to PLN for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years under a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank. The onlending rate would
be at the Bank's standard variable rate plus fees of 2.50S to cover
administrative charges and a part of the foreign exchange risk that would be
borne by the Government. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and PLN will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan.
4.11     The Government of Japan, through its Japan Grant Facility, has agreed
to provide about US$1.3 million equivalent (Y 180 million) towards the
financing of technical assistance included under the project. Of this amount,
about US$0.5 million would be used to finance consulting services for MOC's
DBUK institutional development study and its implementation, and US$0.8
million equivalent for the implementation of PLN's productive uses component.
The Government has given assurances that it would provide the necessary local
funds to PLN to ensure the completion of the project.



- 22 -
G. Procurement
4.12     All goods and services to be financed under the Bank loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines, except for concrete power line poles which
would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in accor-
dance with Government guidelines satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank loan
would finance the procurement of the following itemss power line materials
and poles; transformers, electrical equipment and cables; meters; diesel sets;
and TA, training and related equipment, software and hardware.
4.13     Consultancy services of about 90 man-months for PLN and about 23 man-
months for MOC would be selected and engaged in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Training manuals and other miscellaneous training equipment and
aids and computer software/hardware packages would be purchased through inter-
national shopping for items less than US$10,000 up to an aggregate limit of
US$1 million (US$500,000 each for PLIN and MOC). For such contracts, PLN and
HOC would obtain written price quotations from at least three separate repu-
table suppliers. In the ICB procedures for the procurement of goods, domestic
manufacturers would be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15S or
the import duty, whichever is lower. All bid packages for goods to be
financed by the Bank loan estimated to cost over US$1 million equivalent,
which would cover over 952 of the procurement volume, would be subject to the
Bank's prior review of the procurement documents. The following table
summarizes the procurement arrangements.



- 23 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million)
Procurement method             Total
ICB      LCB      Others    N.A.   cost
PLN Component
Line materials and poles              142.3    63.6        -         -      205.9
(137.3)  (50.9)/a                    (188.2)
Transformers and equipment             37.9     -          O.5b    -        38.4
(36.5)              (0.5)            (37.0)
Diesel sets                             9.1     -          -         -        9.1
(8.4)                                (8.4)
Construction (for power line,           -      63.9        -         -       63.9
transformers, diesel sets)                     C-)                           C-)
House connections (including           88.?     -         47.2/c    -       135.9
construction)                       (83.9)              C-)              (83.9)
Productive uses                         -       -          5.8       -        5.8
(3.2)             (3.2)
Technical assistance                    -       -          2.9       -        2.9
(2.0)             (2.0)
Training                                -       -          2.3       0.8/d   3.1
(2.3)      (-)   (2.3)
Engineering, construction
supervision, overhead                -        -          -        28.7/d  28.7
and administation                                                  C-)      (-)
Subtotal PLN                      278.0   127.5        58.7     29.5   493.7
(266.1)  (50.9)      (8.0)      (-)  (325.0)
MOC Component
Institutional development               1.9     -          -         -        1.9
(1.2)                                (1.2)
Training                                0.9     -          _         -        0.9
(0.9)                                (0.9)
Equipment for training                  1.6                0.5b              2.1
(1.4)              (0.5)             (1.9)
Subtotal MOC                        4.4      -          0.5               4.9
(3.5)              (0.5)             (4.0)
Total                             282.4   127.5        59.2      29.5   498.6
(269.6)  (50.9)      (8.5)ld J:1    (329.0)
la  Concrete power line poles.
lb International shopping.
/c  Through force account.
Id  Engineering, construction supervision, overhead and other administrative
expenses to be provided internally by PLN.
Notes Figures in parentheses indicate amounti to be financed by the Bank.



- 24 -
H. Disbursements
4.14     The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against approved contracts
and would covers (a) 1002 of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and materials; (b) 100? of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
locally manufactured items; (c) 80S of ex-factory expenditures for concrete
poles; (d) 65? of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(e) 10O of expenditures for consultancy services and training. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of
US$50,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank. In order to facilitate
disbursements for the MOC component, a Special Deposit Account would be opened
in Bank Indonesia for the purposes of the project by the Ministry of Finance.
The use of Special Deposit Account would be in accordnace with prevailing GOI
procedures. This account would be maintained in US dollars with an initial
deposit of up to US$300,000, equivalent to about four months of average expen-
ditures. Replenisbments of the Special Deposit Account would be made
quarterly or 'fhen the account is drawn down to 502 of the initial deposit,
whichever comes first. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented
except for expenditures relating to MOC component each valued loeS than
US$50,000 equivalent covering expenditures for training, equipment and
materials, consultancy services and training, which would be disbursed on the
basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs
would be retained by the HOC and made available for review by Bank missions as
needed.
4.15     The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan is
shown in Annex 4-4. Disbursements against the proposed Bank loan are expected
to be faster than the Bank profile for power projects because of the high
proportion of goods readily available in the market, the relatively short two-
year time-slice coverage of the project, and the fact that the loan would be
disbursed mainly against procurement of goods. Construction of civil works
involved in the proposed project would be minimal. Although physical con-
struction of the project would be completed around end-1992, the implemen-
tation of all aspects of the project would be completed by December 31, 1993.
The closing date of the Bank loan would be June 30, 1994.
I. Implementation. Construction Supervision and Consulting Services
4.16     PLN and MOC would be responsible for the implementation of their
respective components. After the completion of general plans for RE by PLN
Headquarters for each year and for each province, the villages to be electri-
fied are identified year-by-year by PLN's regional offices in conjunction with
local and central governments. To maximize the benefits of rural electrifica-
tion, PLN has recently (1987) developed a selection system for villages which
takes into account their administrative importance as well as classification
status. while also considering factors that have a more direct bearing on
economic viability, such as the potential consumption of electricity for the
development of small industries and the distance from the grid.   Thus, selec-
tion of new villages to be electrified will be based on criteria, which estab-
lish the following electrification priorities, in declining order: villages



- 25 -
with relatively high administrative importance and economic potential, i.e.,
subdistrict capitals (ibu kota kecamatan) and self-sufficient villages (desa
swasembada); important villages for regional development, i.e., villages
having home industries; and villages close to PLN's national power grid.
These selection criteria are satisfactory and have been confirmed during loan
negotiations. On the basis of these criteria, of the 4,500 villages to be
electrified during 1990191 and 91/92, 5OX would be subdistrict capitals and
modern villages, 15Z villages with small industry development potential, and
352 villages located near the power supply grid. The optimized long-range RE
development plan, which would be prepared with technical assistance provided
under the project, will help further the prioritization of villages to be
electrified. After villages to be electrified have been selected, each
provincial office prepares bills-of-quantities of materials and equipment
required for RE construction for each province. PLN HeacOquarters then
completes the standard bid documents with the standard tachnical specifica-
tions for all the main items based on these bills-of-quantities and proceeds
with tendering.
4.17     PLN would be responsible for project engineering and would construct
RE systems financed under the proposrd project using local contractors.
Construction supervision would be carried out by PLN's regional organizations.
There are sufficient capable local contractors for timely construction of the
project. All bid documents for all the main items of RE facilities (i.e.,
concrete poles, steel poles, distribution transformers, conductors and cables,
insulators and such electric equipment as reclosers, circuit breakers, isolat-
ing switches, fuses, lightning arresters) and diesel sets would be prepared by
PLN's Construction Department. Transportation and site delivery of material
and equipment could be either included in the contract or carried out by PLN's
own forces or local transporters to be engaged by the provincial offices to
expedite construction. Construction contracts will be prepared at PLN's
regional offices, awarded and signed by the parties at the regional level but
requires PLN's Headquarters' approval for implementation. PLN's experience
has shown that the approval formalities for RE facilities could be completed
in a short time and would not cause any delays in construction.
4.18     Since construction of the RE facilities by PLN is a continuous
process, PLN would start construction of the project as a continuation of its
ongoing RE construction by using material and equipment available in each
regional RE warehouses if any delays occur in the delivery of the Bank-
financed goods at the site. Due to the nature of the construction, some
replenishment of PLN's provincial warehouses is possible and would be accep-
table to the Bank. A project implementation schedule is given in Annex 4-5.
4.19     As mentioned in para. 4.4, PLN's TA Program would include consultancy
services for preparation of the three components of TA and three computer
software packages for: (i) RE planning; (ii) uniform construction design
standards and technical specifications; and (iii) a database and a Management
Information System (MIS) for RE activities. TA would also include procurement
of necessary hardware and training of PLN's staff with regards to implementa-
tion of the software packages and for the use of the hardware. The first
component of TA is related to the preparation of a Master Plan for RE and
talated software package. Such a plan should be prepared based on a computer-
ized RE development model and the data given with regards to year-by-year



- 26 -
development of the main power transmissionldistribution grid, all districts
and/or village groups in the provinces to be electrified in the country, tech-
nical specifications and costs, standard voltages and capacities of equipment
to be used. construction and operation criteria and costs, and electricity
sales tariffs to be applied, economic cost of supply, etc. The expected out-
come of the Moeel would be an RE Master Plan indicating names of village
groups to be 4lectrified each year in the study period in the order of econo-
mic priority, material and equipment needed, construction costs, operation
costs, financial statements, consumer connections, load forecast by consumer
categories, financial and economic rates of return, inventory control, etc..
It would also give complete construction programs with time schedules for
implementation for RE development, and other specifics which are necessary for
preparation of a comprehensive feasibility report for financing of RE faclli-
ties. Consultancy services for the second component would be for the prepara-
tion of a software package for preparation of RE distribution network design,
and technical specifications for RE facilities that would be included in the
uniform bidding documents for construction. Consultancy services for the
third component would be for establishment of a countrywide RE database and an
MIS by using a modular software computer program package to prepare necessary
statistical accounting information and reports for PLN's monitoring of its RE
activities. The terms of reference for these consulting services are given in
Annex 4-6. The above consultants would provide necessary training of PLN
staff connected with the three TA components and would also assist PLN it the
preparation of a training program for relevant PLN staff in the area of RE
management as outlined in Annex 4-7.
4.20     During the loan negotiations, agreement has been reached that PLN
will implement an action program for: (i) the development/implementation of
the pilot demonstration program for increasing productive uses; (ii) upgrading
its planning capability for the preparation of an optimized long-range RE
Development Plan; (iii) development of appropriate RE technical and
construction standards; (iv) development/implementation of a data base and MIS
for RE operations; and (v) staff training. Similarly, agreement has been
reached that GOI/MOC would implement an action program fort (i) institutional
development (study followed by implementation) of MOC's Directorate of General
of Cooperatives Business Promotion in respect of its RE functions; (ii) staff
training; and (iii) development/implementation of measures to strengthen the
role of village cooperatives/organizations in RE with the assistance of PLN (a
Preliminary Action Plan, prepared by MOC in consultation and agreement with
PLN, has identified the specific numbers of Pola I and Pola II (about 275) and
MSAs (about 50) to be established).
J. Productive Uses Component
4.21     The productive uses component of the proposed project is elaborated
in Annex 4-8 and summarized below.
4.22     Obiective.  The objective of the productive uses component is to
develop on a pilot basis the capacity of PLN to increase productive use sales
of electricity in grid-supplied rural areas to new and existing home and small
enterprises in the industry, commerce, agriculture and services sectors. The
component's activities would demonstrate potential gains in numbers of PLN
customers and sales and increases in economic activity to be achieved through
improvements in PLN services and marketing to rural small businesses.



- 27 -
4.23     Descrintion.  PLN would establish a Small Business Service (SES) on a
three-year pilot basis to increase the productive use of electricity in rural
electr:ficotion areas. Under the direction of PLU's Rural Electrification
Division, pilot BS programs would be undertaken in five districts (cabang) in
three of PLN's operating regions. The selected cabangs are Surakarta and
Yogyakarta in Central Java; Ujung Pandang in South Sulavesi; and Sibolga and
Rinjai (Langkat) in North Sumatra (para. 4.4).
4.24     The SBS activities would focus on the improvement and effective
marketing of PLN electricity services in grid-supplied villages. PLN would
coordinate closely with official agencies responsible for broad rural develop-
ment, including those responsible for cooperatives, industrial and rural
development.
4.25     Activities under the component would be directed at resolving
internal PLN organizational and marketing constraints to productive uses.
Specifically, the SBS would increase productive uses by the improvement and
promotion of PLY services to rural small business customers and potential
cuetores in the industry. agriculture, commerce and services sectors. The
$BS program would market PLN services to businesses through: (a) the syste-
matic provision of tariff and technical information; (b) guidance on the
comparative costs of PLN services and captive powers (c) assistance in
ensuring the correct tariff classification of businesses; (d) the identifica-
tion and demonstration of appropriate electricity-using technologies; (e) the
identification and promotion, in coordination with other organizations and
agencies, of inputs and opportunities for the development of businesses using
electricity; and (f) the introduction at the discretion of the regional
managers of appropriate promotional policies for small businesses.
4.26     The SBS program would be organized and implemented at headquarters,
regional and field levels along the following lines:
(a)  PLN would establish an SBS team at headquarters within the Rural
Electrification Division. This Team, which consists of a senior
staff and three professional assistants, would: (i) assist the
wilayah managers and SBS staff in the development of the pilot
programs in their regions, including the development of survey,
marketing and monitoring materials and the development of the cabang-
level action plans; (ii) guide and support the training and informa-
tion activities at the cabang and wilayah levels; (iii) guide techno-
logy identification activities; (iv) advise PLN pusat on the perfor-
mance targets for increased sales to small business customers and
increased small business connections proposed by the wilayah
managers; tv) develop the component's management information system
and monitor and periodically report on the results and cost-effec-
tiveness of the pilot efforts; gad (vi) develop longer-term capabili-
ties and strategies at PLN headquarters for the increased effective-
ness and expansion of PLN services to rural small businesses;
(b) PLN would assign one staff member in each of the three wilayah
offices to helps (i) develop strategies and plans for PLN to attract
and serve rural business customers in the selected cabangs;
(ii) train PLN staff in the selected cabangs; (iii) coordinate PLN



- 28 -
services and promotional activities for small businesses in the
selected pilot areas with those of government agencies, cooperatives.
nongovernmental organizations and the private sector; and (iv) recom-
mend appropriate policies to the regional manager. The staff member
would report directly to the regional manager;
(c) PLN vould establish a team of five people or more at cabang level for
each of the five cabangs selected for the pilot program. The cabang
teams woulds (i) facilitate Improved PLN services and responsiveness
to smll business customers; (ii) supervise field work carried out by
IGOs; and (iii) assist in identifying and demonstrating technologies
to increase the productive uses of electricity;
(d) PLN would contract several NGOs to carry out intensive field work in
the selected cabangs. NGOs field work activities would includes
(C) market survays of existing businesses; (ii) identification of
enterprise level constraints to increased demand for PLN services;
(iii) identification and demonstration of productive electricity-
using technologies; (iv) assistance in resolving bureaucratic and
other bottlenecks to increased electricity use; and (v) facilitation
in accessing the financial, technical, training and other services of
governmental and nongovernmental organizations. Indicators of per-
formance under the NGO contracts will be related to increased PLN
business connections, particularly small business customers, and
increased electricity sales to businesses;
Ce) PLN would be assisted by a technical advisor to be financed under the
project in the development and implementation of the pilot SBS
program. The advisor would be assigned to the Rural Electrification
Division at PLN Headquarters. The terms of reference for the advisor
are shown in Annex 4-9; and
sf) PLN would also carry out short-term studies as appropriate with
assistance of specialists to identify potential productive uses of
electricity, to assist in the development of PLN services to rural
small businesses, and to evaluate the economic impacts of increased
productive uses of electricity.
4.27     Action plans for each of the selected cabangs would be developed
during the start-up phase of the pilot program, and would be periodically
reviewed and adjusted during the program. These plans, as outlined in
Annex 4-8, would includes market strategies for the various supply situa-
tionss activities (e.g., training, identification of market potential, NGO
activities, promotional measures); performance targets; budgets; and organiza-
tional responsibilities. PLN would collaborate closely in its cabang-level
activities with the field offices of MOC, Department of Industry, and other
agencies responsible for promoting income-generating activities.
4.28     The SBS headquarters team would develop management targets for
increasing productive uses, such as the number of rural businesses connected,
the total connected capacity of rural businesses, the volume of kilowatt hour
sales to rural businesses, the unit costs of SBS customer service activities
for rural businesses, etc. Performance would be reviewed periodically and



- 29 -
appropriate remedial actions would be introduced should problems arise. The
economic impacts of increased productive use sales would be evaluated through
surveys and special studies.
R. Environmental Considerations
4.29     The potential impact of the proposed project on the environment would
be minimal. Power line poles financed under the proposed project, similar to
those used in urban distribution systems, would be constructed on one side of
the rural roads in accordance with international standards. Line routes
(rights-of-way) would be selected on the basis of PLN's practices which would
not cause any disturbance to the environment.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.1      This section analyzes PLN's overall past operating results and finan-
cial position as well as its future financial performance. Currently, an
examination of the operating results and financial performance of PLN's rural
electrification operations is not possible due to the absence of segregated
accounting for rural electrification. The proposed project, through provision
of technical assistance, would build upon an agreement under the Power Sector
Efficiency and Paiton Thermal Power Projects (Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND) to
improve PLNs RE accounting to enhance the transparency of its RE operations
(para. 4.19).
B. Past Operating Results and Financial Position
5.2      PLN's operating results and financial position for 1981182 to 1988189
are shown in the financial statements in Annex 5-1 and summarized below:



- 30 -
SUYMARY OF PLN'S FXNAMCIAL OPERATDNO RESULTS
1981/82-1988/89
Flcal year              1981/82 1982/88 1998/84 1984/8t 1985/98 1986/81  1087/88 1918/89&
Energy sales (Wh)         7,846   9,101  10,000  11,041  12,706  14,786  17,077  20,207
Sales Increase (X)         20.8   16.0    9.9   10.4    16.1    16.4    16.6   17.8
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)   48.8   U6.6   76.0    97.8   90.6   98.5    92.6   91.9
Operating revenues
(Rp bln)                  856    536    787   1,111   1,268   1,426   1,629   1,899
Operating expenses
(Rp bIn)                  875    571    8O0   1,119   1,278   1,292   1,689   1,905
Operating Incom (Rp bin)    (19)    (86)    (18)    (8)    (10)    188    (10)    (6)
Not Income (Rp bin)         (20)    (41)    (32)   (46)    (55)    87    (186)   (142)
Rate base (Rp bln) lb       976   1,218   1,497   1,998   2,779   8,867   5,100   6,928
Rate of return () 7b       (1.9)   (8.0)   (0.9)   (0.4)   (0.8)    8.4   (0.2)   (0.1)
Capital investment  p bin)    498    58S    981   1,080   1,408   1,712   1,925   1,979
Self-financing ratio (X)
Annual                 25.8   80.6    18W2    11.4   10.5    28.0    6.9   15.5
Thre-year average Le   29.9   80.8   23.6   18.8   12.9   16.9   18.4   14.8
Debt service coverage
(times)                  10.8    6.8    8.8    2.4       1.7    2.6    1.1    2.0
Debt/debt plus equity ()/d   14.1   17.8   27.4   82.8   86.1   89.9   40.5   88.8
Operating ratio (U)         106    107    102    101    100         91    101    100
Current ratio (time)        8.4    2.4    2.2    2.5    2.1    1.8    1.1    0.9
a Unaudited.
Based on revalued assets (para. 5.21).
c Three-year moving average (current plus two preceding years).
Excluding revaluation surplus.
5.3      During 1981182-1985/86, PLN's operating revenaes and expenses
increased at about the same rate, averaging about 35? p.a. PLN's energy sa'es
grew at an average annual compound rate of about 14?. Although the average
revenue per kWh sold increased by 18.5? p.a. over the period, PLN's profit-
ability was negative.  This situation r'sulted from the Government's policy
during this period of permitting tariff increases that were just adequate to
meet the increases in operating costs, caused mainly by increases in fuel
prices. Nevertheless, with a strong capital structure and substantial
Government equity contribution towards PLN's sizeable capital investment, PLN
had comfortable liquidity and good debt service coverage throughout this
period. In 1986/87, due to reduced fuel prices, PLN ac)teved a positive
operating income, a positive net income, and a positive rate of return (3.4Z)
on net revalued assets. PLN's net internal generation of funds in 1986187 was
about Rp 394 billion (US$223 million) and its annual self-financing ratio
(SFR) was 23.0 on a total capital investment of about Rp 1,712 billion
(US$967 million). In 1987/88, PLN's financial performance deteriorated sub-
stantially, due mainly to the devaluation of the Indonesian currency in
September 1986, price escalations and substantial increases in the proportion
of oil-based generation in 1987188 as a result of the drought of 1987. To
meet an increase of about 15? in sales, PLN's operating expenses in 1987/88
increased by 26Z, resulting in an operating ratio of 101? and a ROR of -0.2?.
As a result, the debt service coverage declined to 1.1 times and the annual
SFR was about 7?. PLN's financial performance showed marginal improvement in
1988/89. However, an average increase of about 25? in the electricity rates
approved by the Government, effective April 1, 1989, is expected to restore
and improve PLN's profitability (para. 5.11).



- 31-
5.4      PLN's operating performance varies considerably at regional level.
PLN's Java operations, which supply electricity through an interconnected
system, are largely commercially-oriented and profitable.  P1N's non-Java
operations, which are mainly small-scale and dispersed over a large number of
islands, ale mostly highly unprofitable, and have a negative impact on PLN's
overall finances. The selected 1987/88-1988189 financial indicators for PLNt's
Java and non-Java operations, presented in the table below, illustrate the
substantial operational differences between the two operations.
SELECT  FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR PLN AND ITS JAVA
AND NON-JAVA OPERATIONS FY 1987/05 - 1i88/89
FT 1057155                 FY 1901/*U
Java   Non-Java  Totnl ITN    J vn   Non-Java  Toal rLN
Energy seo (oh)               18,89   8,6709    17,077    15,692   4,885    20,027
Sales Increase  )               16.7   14.6       15.5      17.1   17.6       17.8
Oporating revenue (Rp billion)    1,256    874   1,629     1,484    48C      1,199
Operating expens  (Rp billIon)    1,102    58?   1,:69     1,279    626      1,905
Operating Income (Rp bi IliIon)  158   -168       -10        186   -191        -6
Net incom (Rp billion)            86   -172       -1U6       74   -216        -142
Rate bass (Rp billion)         8,680  1,420      5,100     5,080  1,893      6,928
Rate of return (X)               4.1  -11.5       -0,2       8.7  -10.1       -0.1
Operating ratio (5)              68    144        101        s7    144        100
5.5      In 1987188, PLN's Java operations generated an operating profit of
Rp 153 billion, with a ROR of about 4.12, compared to about 8.72 in 1986187.
The non-Java operations, however, incurred an operating loss of Rp 163 billion
with a ROR of about -11.52, compared to about -11.12 in 198/87 and thereby
resulted in PLN experiencing an overall operating loss of Rp 10 billion with
an 83R of -0.22. This trend continued in 1988189, as the operating loss
incurred by the non-Java operations exceeded by Rp 6 billion the operating
profit generated by the Java operations.  Nevertheless, the ROR of PLN's non-
Java operations improved to -10.12 in 1988/89, while that of PLN's Java opera-
tions declined in that year to 3.72. The factors discussed in para. 5.3
impinged more heavily on PLN's Java operations, in 1987188 and 1988189.
C. Financial ObJectives
5.6      Under the Power Sector Efficiency and Paiton Thermal Power Projects
(Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND signed July 21, 1989), PLN is required to:
(i) realize for its Java operations, in 1989190 and each fiscal year there-
after, an annual ROR of not less than 8Z, and (ii) for its non-Java opera-
tions, achieve a break-even situation in each of its fiscal years beginning
with fiscal year 1992/93, i.e., total revenues equivalent to not less than the
sum of their (a) total operating expenses, and (b) the amount by which debt
service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation. A covenant under
Loans 3097-IND and 3089-IND also requires PLN to carry out an action plan for
efficiency improvements for all its operations, in a manner to ensure that the
break-even requirements of the revenue covenant for the non-Java operations
are achieved. The above covenants will be repeated under the proposed
project.



- 32 -
5.7           The principal financial objectives underlying the revenue covenant
discussed above are that PLN should achieve: in the short term, sufficient
overall profitability for it to cover its operating expenses, realize positive
annual rates of return, meet Its debt service requirements, maintain adequate
liquidity, and self-finance about 20Z of its average annual capital expendi-
tures; and in the uhdium term, to improve its profitability further to self-
finance about 30-352 of its annual capital expenditures, and rely mostly on
borrowings to finance the balance, confining the Government's contributions to
programs that involve the building of infrastructure rapidly and supplying
electricity to the targeted low-income groups at affordable rates.
D. Present and Future Performance
5.8           PLN's actual financial performance for 1987188-1988189, the estimate
for 1989190 and projections for 1990/91 through 1994/95 and related income
statements for its Java and non-Java operations are summarized in the table
below, and details are given in Annex 5-1. Notes and assumptions underlying
the projections are given in Annex 5-2. In the projectioni, the sales growth
and investment requirements for the Java and non-Java operations are based on
the PLN's latest demand forecasts and the related power development plan
agreed with the Bank (para. 2.10).
KtM'S FIMAM1   PERPOFIAN0.
167/6-1994"j9
I       tl                           Prelt
Fizel M"r                           l/La 1*VZ9                   1990/91  1991/92       /119194  19W4/95
Avp e 0% &)
t" 9.                                     91.9    116.3      121.0     MAS.     130.9    131.2   141.6
Incrom" (0)                  9     U.1V       1:9      116.     1:8.      1:        4:0   1468
Incroaa ()                         O)    2.                     4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0     4.0
,b,-J.va                            el        O.S        e       1801.2    118.4    140.3            112.3
Ie.raeae (5)                      (1.4)    (1-.)    29.1       4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Rigt      f  - (WI)                17.067   20.007   22.897    26.112   29.982   84.169   16.600  4a.8.2
Java                              18.895   I8.69    17.754    20,298   20.268   26,486   80.086.7
4a-Ja                              8.679    4,885    4e943       5,619    6.697    7.661    678st  9eBB9
QRppft?USUft(It bi IIIon)        I.2 1n.699    2.703          8,288    8.888    4,876    8.406   6.48
_               *  billi)          1.255    1,434    2.064      2.488    2,922    8.481    4,062   4.78
_Jon-jevs                            '74       418      637       7ao       9s8    1,118    1.82s   1.M88
Qgp~ agAM  No b IIIIon)      .I w    1,908    2,6        2.79    8098    8.84    4.080   4.4691
9AC_  *  bilileel            e1.102    1.279    1,889    '1.79      2:182    2.498    2.g0?   8.116
o-Ja                                 'SS?      626      70        6s3a      91    1.091    1.248   1.871
2kp       _Pglgllll (ft bi II ion)     f0)        I$)     414       SW        7G2     e92    1 ass   1 s69
Java                                                    MO1no               790      on1n f7 s   790)   * S
mm-bavo                              (163)    (191)     (94)      (14 8)       )      24       as      102
FR` bil IIi)                8.100    6.928    6,976    1o706   12.817   18.980   16.418  20 109
Java                               8.8 no     .0g0    6.693     7.804    8704    9 488   10.994  ih.447
M- Java                             1 420    1 Be9    2.268      2.904    ':01$    4.2       A 424   6 8L
(0.2)    (0.1)     4.0       8.2       6.1      7.1      6.8      9.8
ove                                  41       8.?       a.0       8.4       9.1     10.8      11.6    12.5
(11.)   (10.1)    (4.1)      (8.5)    (0.7)     0.4       J.      2.0
101       oo 1     64        as       60        76        75      71
b*v                                   as        O7       74        78        78       72       69       65
M.n-Jwv.                             14        144      11s       1S        108       es        94      aS
C"ott ra.o (te.)                     1.1       0.9      1.2        1.8      1.4      1.6       i.8     1.9
sebWdebt plus wIwtpg  la            40.8      81s.s    86.8        4.8     87.9     42.6      48.9    t0.2
ASuli                              6.9     18.8     14.7       8a.6     2e.2      29.1     81.9  S8.1
8-Yeer ave-ae IA                   18.4     14.6     12.7       28.2     27.8     al.1      80.8    82.6
Debt aerv. wlo veWrae (time)          1.1      2.0      2.5       2.4       2.7      3.8       4.1     8.8
Ihauditd.
0.i  r vela rate boa.
111elwiing 1rewvation  urp8e.
Wa tre"ar ao vine averae   (urent gIwe too prewiue yea 1e).



- 33 -
5.9      With the adjustment of its tariff effective April 1, 1989 (para.
5.3), PLN's financial position is expected to improve substantially in
1989190, with the ROR for the Java operations rising to 8.01 and that of PLN
as a whole to about 4.8S, with an annual self-financing ratio (snF) of about
152. PLN should achieve further improvements in ite financial position
through efficiency gains, if the tariff is adjusted periodically to compensate
for changes in those costs that are outside PLN's control, such as fuel costs,
exchange rate depreciation and inflation. In the financial projections, which
are based on constant fuel prices, the tariff is assumed to be adjusted
annually by 41 for fiscal years after 1989/90 to absorb the impact of
increases in operating costs and in the rate base assumed in the financial
forecasts.
5.10     The financial projections show that PLN's overall profitability would
improve substantially with its overall annual rate of return rising from about
4.8S =n 1989190 to about 9.3S in 1994195. The capital structure would remain
satisfactory; the debt as a percentage of debt plus equity (excluding revalua-
tion surplus) would rise from 411 in 1987/88 to 501 in 1994195, and its debt
service coverage ratio would be in excess of 2.0 throughout the projection
period. An existing covenant under Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND requires that
PLN may not incur any additional debt unless a reasonable forecast of its net
revenues after expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to be
Incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its projected debt service requirements.
This covenant will be repeated under the proposed project. PLN's current
ratio is expected to be in the range of 1.4 to 1.9 through most of the projec-
tion period; this would provide adequate liquidity. With the projected level
of financial performance, PLN would meet the principal financial objectives
underlying the revenue covenant (para. 5.7).
5.11     The financial projections show t.hat during the forecast period, the
profitability of PLN's Java operations would improve substantially, with the
operating ratio declining and the annual ROR rising, respectively, from the
estimated 74S and 8.0S in 1989/90 to 65Z and 12.51 in 1994195. Consequently,
the Java operations would meet from 1989/90 onwards the ROR target of the
revenue covenant (para. 5.6). PLN's operations outside Java would improve
substantially during the forecast period, with the operating ratio declining
from the estimated 1152 in 1989/90 to 1032 in 1991/92 and a financial break-
even being achieved in 1992/93, when the operating ratio is projected to be
981. Crucial to reaching the financial break-even outside Java is the imple-
mentation by PLN of an action plan for sales promotion, efficiency improve-
ment, and cost reduction in the operation of a large number of isolated,
scattered small systems.
5.12     In the financial projections, PLN's capital expenditures projected
for 1990/91-1994/95 are derived from the Investment requirements and least-
cost expansion plans totaling about Rp 29,890 billion (US$16,887 million)
(including interest during construction) in current prices. The financing
plan assumed in the financial projections for the REPELITA V
(1989/90-1993/94), is presented and compared to that for the REPELITA IV
(1984/85-1988/89) in the table below. Details are given in Annex 5-1.



- 34 -
COMPARISON OF FINANCING PLANS
REPELITA IV                REPELITA V
Fiscal year                     1984185 - 1988189           1989190 - 1993194
Rp billion       (2)       Rp billion        (X)
Capital expenditures              8,054        100.0         21,380        100.0
Financed bys
Net internal sources /a         1,098         13.6          6,262         29.3
Borrowings                      3,731         46.4         10,253         48.0
Government contribution         3,225         40.0          4,865         22.7
Total                       8,054        100.0        21,380         100.0
/a  Including consumers' contributi.ons and deposits, and adjusted for changes
in working capital.
5.13     In the projected financing plan for the REPELITA V (1989/90-1993194),
the Government's contribution is estimated to be about 232, compared to about
402 for the REPELITA IV period, with the annual contribution declining to 222
in 1991192, and to 122 in 1993/94.  PLN's own contribution from its internal
sources is projected to increase from about 132 during REPELITA IV to about
292 during REPELITA V, with annual SFR8 increasing from about 152 in 1989/90
to about 322 in 1993/94. Borrowings would cover about 482 of the financial
requirements during the REPELITA V, almost at the same level as in the
REPELITA IV.
E. Performance Monitoring
5.14     For monitoring the financial performance under the revenue covenants
discussed in para. 5.6 for PLN's Java and non-Java operations, PLN has been
providing the Bank with separated historical financial results (beginning with
its fiscal year 1986187) and forecasts on a proforma basis, but not separate
audited financial statements. Accounting for PLN's Java and non-Java opera-
tions is separate except for overhead expenses, and debt service payments,
which have been difficult to separate except on a notional basis. While
initially the overhead expenses and debt service payments are being allocated
on the basis of unit sales of energy, PLN is pursuing the separation of debt
service payments on the basis of actual debt and related service payments.
There is also a need to pursue a financing strategy that provides a higher
proportion of equity contribution and concessional funding to investments
outside Java, which have a higher social content. These objectives will be
pursued as a part of ongoing dialogue with GOI and PLN.
5.15     As an important step towards improved efficiency, PLN needs to obtain
a bezter understanding of the costs associated with its substantial socially-



- 35 -
directed activities (e.g., rural electrification). To assess the impact on
its finances of such activities, PLN has agreed to Implement a system for
segregating financial and operating information on rural electrification
activities both for Java and non-Java operations, which, as a first step, will
serve as a proxy for socially-directed activities. The data generated by this
system would provide a basis for the Government to assess the extent to which
it should assist PLN to sustain and expand the agreed socially-directed elec-
trification programs. Under Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND, it was agreed with
PLN that such information will be compiled and submitted to the Bank, along
with the annual accounts. This agreement will be repeated under the proposed
project.
F. Tariffs
5.16     PLN's current tariff schedules, which became effective April 1, 1989,
comprise 21 consumer categories, compared to 17 consumer categories in the
previous schedule. A separate tariff category has been established for large
social institutions, and three new tariff categories have been established for
the hotels that were previously included in the industrial consumer cate-
gories. For all except the smallest domestic class, two-part charges are
applied. The minimum connected power for small industrial customers (I1) has
been reduced to 450 VA, making most cottage and small industries eligible for
this tariff (para. 2.24). For medium and large industrial, and large commer-
cial consumers, and for large office buildings, time-of-day pricing is in
effect. The current tariff schedule is shown in Annex 5-3.
5.17     Under the Power Sector Efficiency and Paiton Thermal Power Projects
(Loans 3097-IND and 3098-lED) it was covenanted that (a) PLN will periodically
review its long-run marginal cost (LRMC) and tariff structure, and discuss the
results of the review with the Government and the Bank, and (b) before
December 31 in each year, PLN will review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet
the requirements of the revenue covenants (para. 5.6). Such a review will
take into account the results of the review of the LRMC-based structure and an
action plan for efficiency improvements to achieve, inter alia, the require-
ments of the break-even revenue covenant for the non-Java operations (para.
5.6). These covenants will be repeated under the proposed project.
5.18     In September 1987, PLN completed a study of its LRMC of supply in
Java, which was reviewed by the Bank. The study indicated that PLN's average
revenue in 1987188 would have been Rp 106.3/kWh if the .--iff of each consumer
category was set at the estimated LRMC of supply in Java.  i'ith the current
tariff schedule, PLN's average revenue in 1989190 is estimated to be
Rp 116.3/kwh. The current level of the electricity tariff is close to or
above the LRMC of supply for all cctegories of consumers except small social
institutions, and small residential and small industrial consumers. The
above-mentioned LRMC study also indicated that there was a need to apportion a
larger percentage of the electricity price to the demand charge (fixed charge)
for all categories of consumers, and to increase the peak energy charges for
several consumer categories, particularly for industrial consumers. Under the
current tariff effective April 1, 1989, the demand charge has been raised by
502 for all categories of consumers, and energy charges have been raised sig-
nificantly for both peak and off-peak uses of electricity.



- 36 -
G. Taxes
5.19     In accordance with the prevailing tax legislation effective since
1984, PLN is subject to a 102 value-added tax (VAT) and to corporate income
tax. The Government currently bears the VAT on the foreign contracts, and PLN
bears it on the local contracts; this policy is assumed to continue throughout
the projection period. With respect to corporate income tax, the current
Indonesian tax code permits the use of accelerated depreciation of assets in
operation, instead of the straight-line method used by PLN in its financial
accounting. As a result, PLN does not expect to pay any corporate income tax
for its fiscal year 1989190, and during the projection period. In calculating
the rate of return, however, any income tax payments will be taken into
account.
H. Financing Policv
.2       PLN prepares long-term development plans for corporate and national
planning purposes, and also prepares multi-year financial forecasts and
financing plans. Based on these plans, the Government approves PLN's capital
expenditures and the operating budget one year at a time. Although the system
of annual budget approval will continue, formulation of a long-term financing
strategy is essential in view of the inherently long-term nature of electric
utility planning; most Investment projects in the electricity sector have a
multi-year execution period. Preparation of a long-term financing strategy,
where the parsmeters of the capital structure of PLN--including the shares
therein of PLN's retained earnings, Government equity and debt--are defined,
helps In more substantive policy discussions between PLN and the Government.
Therefore, an existing covenant (Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND) relating to this
aspect of financial planning will be repeated under the proposed project.
This covenant requires that, as part of its ongoing annual planning activi-
ties, PLN should prepare a ten-year financial forecast based on its proposed
development plan, and also prepare for the first five years of the forecast
period a financing plan that should indicate the amount of external financing
and the appropriate mix of equity and debt, and if possible the potential
sources of financing. The covenant also requires that PLN's development plan,
and related financial forecast and financing plan will be reviewed and adopted
by its Board, and that these plans and the forecast will be submitted to and
discussed with the Government and the Bank.
I. Asset Revaluation
5.21     PLN's assets have been revalued periodically.  The last detailed
revaluation was done in 197.;80 as required of all public corporations under
instructions of the Ministry of Finance. The revaluation was recorded in the
books and was accepted by the Bank. Fixed assets acquired after March 31,
1979 are appraised at cost. Following the currency devaluation in September
1986, the Government issued Regulation No. 4S11986 dated October 2, 1986,



- 37 -
providing for the revaluation of assets of businesses and public corporations,
acquired through September 12, 1986. The Regulation specifies the annual
revaluation factors for the years 1970 to 1986 for adjusting the asset values
as of January 1, 1987, and corporations had until December 31, 1987 to report
the revalued data. PLN has also prepared a revaluation of its assets for
1979/80-1986187 based on the Regulation; however, it has not yet been recorded
in the books. The methodology used by PLN for asset revaluation is satisfac-
tory to the Bank. A covenant, under Lo"'.s 3097-IND and 3098-IND, that
requires PLN to revalue annually its fixed assets (including work in progress
and consumers' contributions) and accumulated depreciation for the purposes of
the rate of return and break-even calculations under the revenue covenant
(paras. 5.6), will be repeated under the proposed project.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Proiect Justification
6.1      The overall objective of the proposed project would be to support the
development and implementation of an efficient rural electrification program
in Indonesia. Being the first lending operation in this subsector, the
proposed project would aim to rationalize the institutional arrangements and
to strengthen the role and capability, as well as the coordination, of the key
entities, namely PLN, HOC and village cooperatives and organizations. In
addition, the proposed project would help extend the supply of electricity in
rural areas in Indonesia during 1990-92 at reduced cost. It is also a part of
PLN's overall investment program that has been reviewed with the Bank and
found to be satisfactory. The proposed project would also have an impact on
poverty alleviation in rural areas. These objectives are elaborated in the
following paragraphs.
1. Institutional Development Objectives
6.2      The proposed project would strengthen PLN's capability in its tradi-
tional role of being a key planning and implementing agency for rural electri-
fication in Indonesia. This would be achieved through technical assistance
and training to upgrade its RE planning capability; develop and implement a
data base and management information system (MIS) to monitor RE activities and
operations; and develop appropriate RE technical specifications and construc-
tion standards. The proposed project, through technical assistance and
training, would also support MOC's efforts to develop and upgrade the institu-
tional capability of its Directorate General of Cooperatives Business
Promotion specifically with regard to planning and monitoring of rural elec-
trification programs, and enhancing the involvement of rural cooperatives and
organizations in rural electrification. Furthermore, the proposed project
would foster the role of village cooperatives/organizations in rural electri-
fication by supporting, through provision of relevant training to the
personnel of such cooperative/organizations, a joint program of MOC, PLN and
MME to achieve the targets for cooperation between village cooperatives/
organizations and PLN. Such cooperation, through the Pola I and Pola II



- 38 -
arrangements and a number of pilot *management services arrangements (MSA)
(para. 4.4), may lead to a substantially larger role for village cooperatives
and organizations in the operation and maintenance of the RE systems.
2. Meeting Demands and IncreasinR Cost Efficiency of RE
6.3      The proposed project would enable PLN to extend the supply of
electricity to about 1.3 million new consumers in rural areas during 1990-92
in accordance with the Government's RE program in REPELITA V. It is noted
that at the end of this five-year plan period, Indonesia would have an
electrification ratio of the rural population to 292 and the number of
villages electrified to 502. This rural electrification ratio would still be
below those already achieved in Thailand (above 60X) and the Philippines (up
to 50X), and compares with the Bank's Rural Electrification Review dated
November 1986 (para. 2.16) that at least half of the rural households in
Indonesia can afford electricity.
6.4      Under the proposed project, PLN would reduce the unit cost of power
distribution in rural areas through the revision and adoption of appropriate
technical design and construction standards and improved procurement and
construction procedures. The cost of RE would also be reduced through
increased involvement of village cooperativeslorganizations in the implementa-
tion and operation of the rura: power systems. The proposed project would
attempt to find ways to maximize the economic benefits of rural electrifica-
tion by mounting concerted efforts to promote productive uses of electricity
in five pilot areas. If proved successful in the next three years, such
efforts would be applied on a much larger scale throughout the country.
3. Poverty Alleviation
6.5      The proposed project would have an impact on poverty alleviation,
mainly by providing employment to the labor force in rural areas for erecting
tle RE distribution works and potentially through the economic activities set
in motion as a result of backward and forward linkages of the RE program.
4. Economic Return
6.6      The computerized Model-PLN (para. 4.1) is used by PLN extensively to
test economic efficiency of RE developments based on data given, such as
number of villages to be electrified, number of consumers, consumption,
investment costs, electricity tariffs, operating costs, etc. In the economic
analysis of the proposed project, economic benefits have been estimated in
terms of consumers' willingness-to-pay for electricity. All foreign costs
have been based on border prices. Economic analyses have been carried out for
PLN's entire RE development program in REPELITA V as well as for the two-year
time slice financed under the proposed project on the basis of these assump-
tions. The internal economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated to be about
122 for PLN's entire REPELITA V RE program and 152 for the proposed project.
Details of these analyses, together with notes and assumptions, are given in
Annex 6-1.



- 39 -
B. Project Risks
6.7      Since the investment component of the proposed project is relatively
straightforward, no major risks would be expected in project implementation.
However, there may be some risks of delay in the implementation of the MOC
component, especially with regard to the realization of the cooperative
arrangements between PLN and village cooperatives/organizations. Such risks
would be minimized through a close coordination between PLNINME and MOC
through the Advisory Team for Electric Power Development in Rural Areas
recently established by MME (para. 3.14), and through provision of technical
assistance and close project supervision.
6.8      With regard to the implementation of PLN's productive uses component,
given that the key cotnstraints being addressed under the proposed project are
internal ones related to PLN's organizational and marketing activities, a
possible issue is whether there is a sufficiently ample backing now on the
part of PLN's leadership to be able to develop their productive uses capa-
bility. This issue is in part addressed by concentrating the component's
activities on grid-supplied villages so as to take into account PLN's concerns
about the financial costs which would be incurred by serving greater numbers
of rural small businesses through isolated diesels. Secondly, the component
activities are designed on the basis of a narrow definition of the role of PLN
(namely, improving service and mounting efforts to increase sales to rural
businesses of PLN supplied electricity) so as to take into account concerns
about PLN possibly encroaching, or being perceived as so doing, on the respon-
sibility areas of other agencies and organizations which are charged, for
instance, with cooperative development, rural development, and small business
development. Finally, PLUN's commitment under the proposed project to provide
the staff and other resources for the Small Business Service teams at head-
quarters and in the five pilot areas and to contract the assistance of non-
governmental organizations are indications that PLN is strongly supporting
this effort.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
7.1      During the negotiations, agreements have been reached with the GOI
thatt
(a) the Government would review with the Bank by January 31 of each year,
commencing January 31, 1991 and until the completion of the proposed
project, PLN's RE investment plan for the next fiscal year before its
final approval (para. 4.5);
(b) the Government would onlend US$325.0 million equivalent of the
proposed loan proceeds to PLN for 20 years including a grace period
of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus fees
of 2.502. Such fees would cover a part of the foreign exchange risk,
which would be borne by the Government, and administrative charges
(para. 4.10);



- 40 -
(c) the Government would make the remaining loan proceeds (US$4.0 million
equivalent) available to MOC for the implementation of its components
(para. 4.10);
td) the Government would provide the necessary local funds to PLN to
ensure the completion of the project (para. 4.11); and
(e) the Government, through MOC, would implement an action program for:
(i) institutional development (study followed by implementation) of
MOC's Directorate General of Cooperatives Business Promotion
specifically in respect of its rural electrification functions;
(ii) staff training; and (iii) development/implementation of measures
to strengthen the role of village cooperativesiorganization in RE
with the assistance of PLN (pars. 4.20).
7.2      During the negotiations, agreements have been reached with PLN thats
(a) PLN would review with the Bank by November 15 of each year, commenc-
ing November 15, 1990 and until the completion of the proposed
project, its annual RE investment plan (para. 4.5);
(b)  PLN would select villages to be electrifi(d based on criteria accep-
table to the Bank (para. 4.16); and
(c)  PLN would implement an action program ' r:  (i) the development/
implementation of the pilot demonstration program for promoting
productive uses; (ii) upgrading its planning capability for the
preparation of an optimized long range RE Development Plan;
(iii) development of appropriate RE technical and construction
standards; (iv) development/implementation of a data base and HIS for
RE operations; and (v) staff training (paras. 4.20).
7.3      The following agreements reached under the ongoing Power Sector
Efficiency and Paiton Thermal Power Projects (Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND)
will be repeated under the proposed projects
(a) Review of PLN's investment program (para. 2.10);
(b) PLN's action plan for efficiency improvement (para. 3.5);
(c) Audited accounts and reports (para. 3.12);
(d) Revenue requirements (para. 5.6);
(e) Debt limitation (para. 5.10);
(f) Provision of segregated financial and operating information on RE
activities along with PLN's annual accounts (para. 5.15).
(g) LRMC and tariff review (para. 5.17);
(h) Financing strategy (para. 5.20); and
(i) Asset revaluation (para. 5.21).



- 41 -
7.4      A condition of effectiveness would be that the Government will
execute the subsidiary loan agreement with PLN satisfactory to the Bauk (para.
4.10).
B. Recommendation
7.5      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for
a proposed loan of US$329.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia,
for a period of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



k  rA )HuI(Z.Wbo)I        I (4)IGM W~ I~~
I~~ un
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mmm  f
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I PAd W   II  wxba   I                                      WdOWS
- t3q[l -pi34 &-$
~~ _____                    ~                  ADPWSI  pm mf
B ~E                                                                                        I
~~~~V O W~~~~~~~~~~~W~~~~OA
-~ ~~  -I3                                                               I . 
A[V NUJOL3Mr
q>opAqqV840aPO



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-2
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Growth of PLNs' Consumers and Sales
Fiscal              Number of                     Connected               Sales
year               consumers                     load MVA                in GWh
1975/76            1,140,745                       1,426.4                 2,804
(5.OZ)                       (13.0)              (14.72)
1976/77            1,208,538                       1,594.5                 3,082
(5.SZ)                       (11.81)              (10.12)
1977/78            1,413,855                       1,939.2                 3,527
(17.QZ)                       (21.6Z)              (14.6Z)
1978179            1,783,246                       2,459.1                 4,287
(26.1Z)                       (26.81)              (21.62)
1979180            2,246,657                       3,063.4                 5,343
(26.02)                       (24.6S)              (24.62)
1980/81            2,745,176                       3,744.2                 6,523
(22.22)                       (22.2Z)              (22.12)
1981/82            3,232,075                       4,502.8                 7,845
(17.72)                       (20.32)              (20.32)
1982183            3,802,421                       5,270.4                 9,101
(17.6Z)                       (17.0S)              (16.02)
1983/84            4,406,047                       6,126.7                10,000
(15.91)                       (16.32)               (9.92)
1984/85            5,133,231                       7,120.7                11,041
(16.52)                       (16.21)              (10.42)
1985/86            5,953,293                       8,149.9                12,706
(16.01)                       (14.51)              (15.12)
1986/87            6,965,580                       9,282.1                14,786
(17.02)                       (13.92)              (16.42)
1987/88            8,203,349                      10,710.7                17,077
(17.8S)                       (15.4S)              (15.52)
1988/89            9,275,938                      12,233.7                20,027
(13.12)                       (14.22)              (17.3S)
Sourcet PLN.



- 44 -
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Pek Load. Productlon and lnstalled Capacity
Java Sys!e
1989/90   1"O/91   1091/2  1992/93   1998/94   1994/96
Sales (GWh)                           17,754    20,290    28,236    26,481    30,065    38,978
Increase (X)                            16.0      15.0      14.5      14.0       18.6      18.0
Louseu T A 0 (GWh)                     8,748     4,167     4,693      6,047     5,510     6,900
Gross Coneration (GWh)                22,514    25,740    29,290   85,184    87,442   42,062
System Poek Load (MV)                  8,714     4,246     4,932      6,476     6,178     6,941
System LF (X)                             609       69        69         69        69        69
HLdro Power Plants
We     Pt                          1,90B     1,903     1,908     1,903      1,900     1,903
Ulrlce #1-8                             61        el        6t         61        61        6t
Ct I an                                  0         0         0          0        10        10
Tulungagung                              0         0         0          0        as        se
Kedungombo                               0         0         0         23        28        28
Tulle                                    0         0         0          0        18        18
S3ubtotol                         1.9B4     1.964     1.964     1.87      2.043     2.046
Dlosl Power Plants                        0         6         6          6         6         6
Steam Power Plant:
B aulo                         1,800     1,400     1,400     1,200     1,200      1,200
Subtotal                          1.800     1.400     1.400     1.200      1.200     1.200
Natural Gasi
*3r ik t-4, 2-2                        0       400       400         0o       6oo       600
Subtotal                              Q       400       400      e6          600       60oo
Coal:
-sl                                1,200     1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200     1,200
Surealeys  4-7                       400       400       400        400       400       400
Patton #1-4                            0         0         0          0       600       800
Subtotal                          1.600     1.600     l.6o0      1.6O0     2.400     2.400
Gas Turbine Power Plant:
D- tillate 071 (HSD)s
Basis                                046        6e6      56a        6e5       56e       65s
Subtotal                            646       665       566       565        565      565
Natural Gas:
Basis                                  0        60        80         80        so        so
Proj ct                                0         0         0       400        200         0
Subtotal                              0        80        80       480        280        60
Geothermal Power Plant:
Kamoojng p1-U                          140       140        140       140       140       140
Salak  1-2                              0         0         0          0       110       110
Drejst #1-2                              0         0         0          0         0       110
Diong #1                                 0         0         0          0        aS        66
Subtotal                            140       140        140       140       805       416
Combined Cycle Power Plant:
ELst Java L-5                            0         0         0         0        900       900
ToTAL                             6.140    0.149      6.149     6.672      8.206     8,212



- 45-                              1 _ 
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Poak Load, Production and Installgd Caopelty Outside Java
1609/90   1900/91  1M1/92   I9m2/98   1993/94   1994/96
Saleo (GWh)                            5,050     5,819    0,607       7,661     6,785     9,689
Inereoae (3)                              16        16       1i         15         14        18
Losses T & 0 (CWh)                        17        16        l        15         15        14
Gross Generatton (QUh)                 6,877     7,804     6,854      9,626    10,629    12,119
System Peak (MW)                       1,261     1,487     1,621      1,644     2,081     2,827
Systm ULF()                               66        56         69        59        69        S9
Installed Capacity (MW)
ail1e                                  149       149        149       149       149       149
Mini Hydro                               0         0         1         12        24        8?
Te I #1-4                                0        16         16        16        16        16
Tangarri I                               0         0         0         0         19        19
SBkaru #1-2                              0         0       126        126       126       126
Subtotal                            149       165       292        808       884       847
DiereI:
DoiIIate oil ((HSD):                 1,642     1,677      1,666     1,712     1,6091    1,661
R Ildurl oil tUFOls
FroJ et                               26        25        25         25        26        25
Steam Power Plant:
Natural as:
Beaie  -                              0         0                  0          0         0
Beloawn #1-2                         18o       180       180       180        180       180
Belawan #S-4                           0       1S0       18O       180        18O       18O
Kramasan #1-2                         25        26        26        25         25        25
Subtotal                            165       266        2"6      2865       265       26
Coa 1:
1                                   0         0         0         0         0         0
OmbilIn #1-4                           0         0         0         0        1S0       18O
Bukit Assm #1-5                      1S0       18o        18O       180       196       260
Pontianak #1-6                         0         0         0          0         0        25
Subtotal                            l80       180       1SO        180       825       415
Losidual ol  F10):
Basis                                 25        26        25         26        25        25
Subtotal                             25        26        25         26        25        25
Geothermal:
Cihondong #1-2                           0         0         0          0        15        1s
Subtotal                                       0         0         0         15        16
age Turbine Power Plant:
Natural Gas
Payapasir #1-2                        S0        so        8o         80        8o        so
BSlawan #t-2                         117       284         0          0         0         0
Subtotal                            268       876        141       141       141       141
D  Utillte oil CM):
B-Tsis                               e18      18        8l6       186       185      18
Padang #I-                             0        20        20         20        20        20
Subtotal                            16        1568      19         1568      156      16
Combined Stele (M. cool:-
Belown f1-                            0         0       a864      854        864       ?06
Samrtlnd #I-4                          0         0         0         0         99        99
Subtotal                              Q         0       864        854       458       60T
tOTAL                             2.268     2.465     2.957      2.002     8.1l1     8.768



- 46 -                           A      2-S
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Investment Program - Indonesia
(All costs in constant 1989 US$ million)
Total
FY89/90  FY90191  FY91192  FY92/93  FY93/94  FY94195    FY90-95
Diesel
Foreign cost        23.1     16.4      17.8     15.8      13.6     20.0      106.8
Local cost           9.3      7.9       7.7       6.8      7.2       8.3      47.2
Gas turbine
Foreign cost         0.0     36.4       3.5      0.0       9.0       0.0      39.9
Local cost           0.0      4.0       0.4       0.0      0.0       0.0       4.4
Hydro
Foreign cost        56.5     39.0      77.1    183.7    251.7    388.9       996.9
Local cost          29.8     36.3      86.5    127.0    172.1    244.9       696.5
Steam oil
Foreign cost        27.4     47.0       0.0     24.1       0.0       0.0      98.5
Local cost           6.0      5.8       0.0       0.1      0.0       0.0      11.9
Steam coal
Foreign cost        89.1    127.1    334.0    448.3    583.2    727.2   2,308.5
Local cost          29.3     62.1    116.0    225.4    252.8    302.8        988.5
Geo thermal
Foreign cost         0.0     33.1      88.7     58.4      31.4     28.3      239.9
Local cost           0.0     10.5      14.3     17.1       9.3       3.6      54.8
Combined cycle
Foreign cost         2.4     11.4    221.1    182.6    229.3    194.8        841.6
Local cost           3.0      5.5      68.7     38.4      65.8     48.8      230.2
Transmission
Foreign cost       115.3    108.8      69.3     77.2      77.5    114.3      562.4
Local cost          27.2     20.2      18.0     18.7      17.4     24.0      125.6
Substation
Foreign cost       157.8    146.5      96.1    120.3    154.1    115.4       790.2
Local cost          37.6     32.8      25.1     37.4      39.8     27.0      199.6
Consumer
Foreign cost        27.0     28.1      29.3     30.7      32.2     34.3      181.6
Local cost          27.0     28.1      29.3     30.7      32.2     34.3      181.6
MV Line
Foreign cost        72.5     82.0      91.8    101.7    109.9    117.3       575.2
Local cost          73.4     82.9      92.8    102.7    110.5    118.3       580.7
LV line
Foreign cost        44.8     50.6      56.6     62.7      67.9      72.5     355.1
Local cost          45.4     51.2      57.2     63.3      68.2      73.2     358.6
Dist transformer
Foreign cost        33.0     37.4      41.8     46.4      51.2      54.6     264.3
Local cost          33.0     37.4      41.8     46.4      51.2      54.6     264.3
Other investment
Foreign cost         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Local cost          19.4     23.0      33.7     41.3      48.6      55.7     221.7
Subtotal
Foreign cost       648.9    763.8  1,127.2  1,351.8  1,602.0  1,867.6   7,361.4
Local cost         340.5    407.9    591.4    755.2    875.2    975.6   3,945.8
Total             989.4  1,171.7  1,718.6  2,107.0  2,477.3  2,843.2  11,307.2
Note: Includes rural electrification.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-6
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Investment Program - Java System
(All costs in constant 1989 USS million)
Total
FY89/90  FY90191  FY91192  FY92/93  FY93/94  FY94195  FY90-95
Diesel
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Local cost            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Gas turbine
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.      0.0
Local cost            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Hydro
Foreign cost         17.7     10.1      21.1     32.8      16.5      46.8    149.9
Local cost            6.8       8.0     12.9      12.8      5.3      14.8     60.6
Steam oil
Foreign cost          0.0     33.3       0.0     24.1       0.0       0.0     57.4
Local cost            0.0       3.8      0.0       0.1      0.0       0.0      3.9
Steam coal
Foreign cost         44.9     84.3    276.2    374.6    501.8    679.3  1,961.1
Local cost           20.9     45.4      85.0    198.5    228.4    287.8    866.1
Geothermal
Foreign cost          0.0     27.7      76.6     56.1      17.2       5.0    177.6
Local cost            0.0       9.0     12.7     14.6       7.3       1.1     44.7
Combined cycle
Foreign cost          0.0       0.0     99.5    174.2    186.6    136.9    597.3
Local cost            0.0       0.0     16.5     35.8      41.3      33.1    126.8
Transmission
Foreign cost         69.9     87.0      41.0     49.7      50.9      95.6    394.1
Local cost           17.0     13.2       9.8     11.4      11.2      17.8     80.5
Substation
Foreign cost        115.4    124.4      62.9     91.7    127.6      89.5    611.5
Local cost           29.9     25.2      15.3     29.8      32.4     19.5    152.6
Consumer
Foreign cost         19.2     20.0      20.9     21.8      22.8     24.2    128.9
Local cost           19.2     20.0      20.9     21.8      22.8      24.2    128.9
MV line
Foreign cost         46.4     52.9      59.0     65.1      71.0      77.3    371.7
Local cost           47.1     53.5      59.6      65.6     71.6      78.0    375.5
LV line
Foreign cost         29.7     33.8      37.6     41.5      45.3      49.4    237.3
Local cost           30.1     34.2      38.0      41.8     45.7      49.8    239.6
Dist. transformer
Foreign cost         24.5     28.2      31.3     34.6      38.0      41.6    198.2
Local cost           24.5     28.2      31.3      34.6     38.0      41.6    198.2
Other investment
Foreign cost          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Local cost           11.3     14.8      20.6     28.6      31.6      36.3    143.2
Subtotal
Foreign cost        367.6    501.6    726.1    961.2  1,077.8  1,245.5  4,879.8
Local cost          206.9    255.2    322.8    495.5    535.8    603.8  2,419.9
Total            574.4    756.8  1,048.9  1,456.7  1,613.6  1,849.3  7,299.7
Note: Includes rural electrification.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-1
INDONESA
RURAL EBEC1IRCAUON PROJECT
n   Chat of PLN
The I                                PRn Roo I
d Pt!N ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    w~ i fa
Crpomtion                                                NAV.0 Reion V
L           Je                n Poe    Ith Suremwo
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Reio IXR
NMh9nrete  1                                                          alstDlZborate 
Ubintorded ctectorate d                             RN Regn X
arn RTect                                                                    R
I     hemd) and     _                                                  _       Smdo
Md P~ed        I
Frh on   Rlwn 1                                                                 sN Oioibitio
S>dherdSa^9jo  1                                                              Mperhor
N*l Rqoect                                                                  RN Wlon
TOens T_owen                                                                SoutN RCa" and
MWinP*d "                                                                    PNW Repnk 
SuIf  S- C                                                              IeWt  
Th Prro                                                                        Jaweer   nd 
I  IL n PGn l
. | |
C,mmmflcn(ThmmcesenleaWTm                                                D:
""on-owmaliam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W0d "418:



1NDONEIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN: Performance Indicator.
1979/90    1980/81    1981/82    1962/83    19838/4    1964/85    1985/6    1986/67        1967/88    1986/89
1.  Instal led capacity (M)                 2, 536      2,555      3,032      3,406      8,935       4,615      5,035      6,200       6,421      8,149
2. Peek demand (OW)                          1,276      1,577      1,876      2,285       2,413      2,603      2,966       3,403      3,83S      4,364
S.  Capecity utilization (2)*(1)             0.50        0.62       0.02       0.67        0.61       0.56       0.53        0.55       0.e0       0.54
4.  Energy production (GWh)                 7,004       8,420     10,188     11,847      13,892     14,777     18,89f      19,465     22,305     25,622
6.  tales (C1h)                             6,343       6,523      7,845      9,101      10,000     *1,041     12,70e      14,786     17,077     20,027
0. 5 growth in sales                          24.6       22.1       20.3       16.0         9.9       10.4        15.1       16.4       16.5       17.3
7. I.sses -ith station use (s)               23.7        22.6       22.6       23.2        2c.a       2S.3       24.8        24.0       23.4       21.8
without Station um   (            19.5       19.1        18.7       19.1       20.8        20.6       19.6       19.6        18.7       16.9
8.  iMmber of consumers                 2,240,657 2,746,176  3,232,075  3,802,421  4,406,04?  5,133,281  5,963,293  6,965,680 6,203,349  9,275,938
(3 growth)                           (25.9)     (22.2)      (17.7)     (17.6)     (15.9)      (16.5)     (16.0)     (17.0)      (17.6)     (13.1)
9.  Avorag  reenue per kWh sold (tp)          27.3       41.4       43.3       6e.5        76.0       97.8       96.6        WS.5       92.6       91.9
10. Average fuel cost per kWh sold (Rp)        9.4        14.3       16.2       20.4       53.8        62.4       54.4        48.3       50.6       49.0
11. Total mnpower (employees)               30,130      82,951     35,791     39,962      44,909     49,696    65,290       61,571     51,205     51,237
12.  Consumers per employee                     75          8a         90         95          98        103        116         136        1o6        181
13. Sales pere.mployes (MWh)                   177         198        219        228         223        222        248         287        a34        391
14. Average ftel per kWh in central
thermal planta (oil) (liter)           0.30o       0.30       0.a        0.29        0.27       0.29       0.29        0.29       0.30       0.29
15. Rate bas  (Rp billion) La                     -        737        976      1,218       1,497      1,996      2,779       3,667      5,093      0,923
16. Rate of retain on revalued
rate base (                            -3.7         3.5       -1.9       -3.0        -0.9       -0.4       -0.a         3.4       -0.1       -0.1
17. Operating ratio (M)                         114         91        105        107         102        101        101          91        101        100
1. Current ratio (tines)                       4.5        4.5        3.4        2.4         2.2        2.6         2.1        1.3        1.1        0.9
19. Debt/equity r.tio [0                       7/98      10/90      14/88       17/83      27/73      82/69      3e/64       40/60      41/69      89/61
20. Debt service coverage ratio
(time)                                    -           -       10.8        8.8        8.6         2.4        1.7         2.6        1.1        2.0
21. Self-f itacing ratio (3)
(3-year sovng average)                 20.0        28.4       29.9       30.3        23.6       18.3       12.9        15.9       13.4       14.6
22. Overall customera" accounts
r elevable (day's soles)                   68         6a          74         65          68         Ss          61         46         47         42
/a Based on realud assets.
Soure: PLO.



INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Ministry of CooperatIvos - Organization Chart
MtaW OF
H          STAFFf 
SECNETARIA          HSPECTOmEnGML c                                                coaoemaivus
co+
IOA    ._              IRA'L              COOP ZAXlO IIaCOOEg ar    I                 SLV  MeKJL
2 .0~~~~
~~~~~~~~I IX
H H   H H______ IL
M.wMuWo=I
1 -I EKC
CX)OFSVMW"~wW40



- 51 -                           ANNEX 3-4
Page .
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
An Institutional Development Study for the
Directorate General for Cooperatives Business Promotion
The Ministry of Cooperatives
Background and Obiectives
1.       Rural Electrification (RE) in Indonesia has been implemented by PLN
(the State owned power entity) as a sole authority for RE development. In
1979, the Presidential Decree No. 36 has also authorized village cooperatives
(RUD) and private organizations to develop RE on a concessionary basis to
increase the rate of RE development. Since 1979, under this Decree, three
power cooperatives (RLP) was established through an USAID Assistance. A
project development office (PDO) were also established to help these KLPs in
their establishment, as well as in the construction and operation of their
respective power systems. Moreover, to increase input of RUDs in RE
development, the Ministry of Cooperatives (HOC) and the Ministry of Mines and
Energy (MME--the parent ministry of PLN) reached an agreement regarding
establishment of four RE patterns (Pola I through IV). Under Pola I, RUD, for
a fee from PLN, provides meter readings, billing and minor maintenance. Under
Pola II, RKD, for a fee to be paid by PLN, provides housewiring and also some
maintenance of RE facilities. Under Pola III and IV, a KLP would be
established as an independent small power organization to construct and
operate RE facilities on a concessionary basis. Under Pola III, RIP purchases
bulk power from PLN while, under Pola IV ,LP operates isolated distribution
and generating facilities on a concessionary basis. Under both Pola III and
IV, XLPs own the RE facilities, while under Pola I and II, PLN owns the RE
facilities.
2.       MOC and MHZ have now established a Steering Committee to increase
input of RUD's in RE development and help PLN through other methods, e.g.,
Management Services Agreement (MSA) on a pilot basis. Directorate General of
Cooperatives Business Promotion (DBUI) is responsible for RE functions in MOC.
DBUK curries out its RE functions through its Directorates, especially
Directorate of Industry and Services (herafter referred to as DBUl).
3.       The main objective of the Study is to strengthen DBUK's responsible
organizationjunits to increase its effectiveness for the development of RE
through RUDs, through a comprehensive review of country-wide institutional
framework for RE together with all legislative and other general rules and
regulations with regards to RE.
Scope of Consulting Services
4.       The study would cover the following aspectss



- 52 -                     ANNEX 3-4
Page 2
(a)  A comprehensive review of relevant duties and responsibilities, roles
and functions of all ministries, government organizations and offices
related to RUt
(b)  A comprehensive review of relevant duties and responsibilities of
PLN, KUDs, RLPs, private organizations and cartive generation estab-
lishments, their roles and functions related to RE development;
(c)  Determine the needs of DBUK and how it relates to the duties and
responsibilities of the above organizations. Determine operational
inefficiencies and inter-organizational bottlenecks if any exist.
Identify any essential functions that are not covered by the existing
framework of DBUK;
(d)  Identify any additional requirement of DBUK and design an organiza-
tional structure which will enable DBUK to carry out its responsi-
bilities while eliminating or mitigating the inefficiencies and
relationship bottlenecks identified, with a view to increase overall
RE development efficiency and effectiveness of DBUR and avoid
unnecessary duplications:
*e)  Prepare job descriptions for each position iti the recomended organi-
zational framework of DBUR, flow-of-work block diagrams with cross
coordination areas among the positions and other organizations and
operations of all major JOba of each position with required qualifi-
cations and capacities of each position; and
(f)  Devise a comprehensive training program for mid-management and higher
level DBUK staff regarding development of DBUI's management
effectiveness in the areas of, RE planning, financing, construction,
and operation with the experienced RE organizations in other
countries to acquire the most advanced RE management, organization
and operation technologies to be supported through computerized
systems including monitoring and evaluation of RE activities and a
management information system (MIS).
5.       The Consultant, during execution of his services shall prepare quar-
terly reports in order to provide information about progress of work, problems
encountered, decisions to be reached in agreement with MOCIDBUK for the pre-
vious quarter, outline of work expected to be completed together with diffi-
culties expected requiring solutions or decisions in the next quarter, and
reach agreements with HOCIDBUK about the details of work to be carried out
next quarter.
6.       The consultant shall also prepare an implementation program regarding
implementation of agreed outcome of the Study by MOC/DBUK.   The
implementation Report, among other things, should also include, the hardware
and software required for the appropriate; implementation of the final
report's recommendations as agreed with MOC/DBUK.  Implementation should be
carried out in accordance with the agreed programs with MOC/DBUK.



- 53 -                         ANNEX 3-4
Page 3
Schedule of Activities
7.       The Consultant shall complete its task according to the following
targets:
(a) Date collection                               : 3 months
(b) Data processing and preparation of
the draft report                            s 6 months
(c) Preparation of the final report               * 3 months
(d) Preparation of Implementation Report          * 1 month
(e) Implementation and evaluation                 I 10 months



-54 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Development Plan
PLN's RE Planning
1.       PLN has not yet prepared a long-range "Master Plan" at the national
level for the RE development. However, PLN has prepared global five-year
plans with the year-by-year plans in parallel with the 60I's Five-Year
National Development Plans (REPELITA). The sunnary of the last five-year RE
development plans for the REPELITA V is given at the end of this annez.
2.       Assumptions used in the PLN's RE plans are as follows:
(a) PLN's RE plans are based on the REPELITA V target of electrifying
11,600 villages during 1989190-1993194.
(b) In general, the total number of villages to be electrified in each
province is determined based upon expansion of PLN's generating capa-
city and development of transmission/distribution system and the
village classification for electrification priority.
(c) Average length of MV lines per village is determined from the average
distance between the villages in that province. PLN has already
prepared a statistical information in this regard, based on informa-
tion received from the GOI's Department of Home Affairs. The total
province area is 1,948,732 km2, total town area is 76,640 km2, the
total village area is 1,8X2,091.16 km2, and the number of villages is
61,228, average area per village is 30.58 km2 and distance per vil-
lage is 30.58 km. Province by province of this data were filed in
the "project files* under 'Rural Electrification Planning for
REPELITA V (1989/90-1993194; December 1988'.
(d) Average number of consumers per village is determined based on the RE
statistics in long-term planning compiled since 1978.
(e) The length of LV lines per village is determined based on the density
of consumers (in terms of number of consumers per km length of LV
lines) receiving power under the tariff levels of SliS2+Rl+R2+Ul in
that PLN's region. It is also estimated that the RE density would be
about 75Z of the regional value; thus, the LV line length per village
could be determined based on the following formula:
LV line length for that village (km) - (number of
consumers of the village) divided by 0.75 times (con-
sumer density of Sl+S24Rl+R2+Ul consumers per km).



- 55 -                          ANNEX 4-1
Page 2
(f) The capacity forecast of the diesel sets in outside Java and Bali
(there is no need for a diesel capacity in these two islands for RE)
is based on long-term planning concept, that there would be no diesel
in rural areas for RE in year 2009, i.e., all villages would have
access to the national grid or electrified in that year. Installed
capacity needed would then be determined based on a scoring (point)
system based on the availability of the main grid for RE at that
area. For example, score 1 and 2 are given for the areas highly
developed and having concentrated distribution systems, such as prov-
inces in Central Java and Bali. Those provinces in West Sumatra have
a score of 3 although the provinces have relatively concentrated
distribution systems, because they have not yet developed as prov-
inces in Java and Bali. Also those provinces located in North
Sumatra, South Sumatra, South Sulawesi, South Kalimantan and North
Sulavesi have scores of 3 and 4. Those provinces located in other
regions and have less densely main distribution systems have a score
of 5. On the above assumptions the diesel capacity for that province
could be determined by the following formula:
kW (diesel capacity for that province for that year)
(A) x (B) _      Total (E)
Total [(C) x (D)]
where: (A) Score of that province;
(B) Number of villages in that province;
(C) Score of all provinces;
sD) Number of villages of all provinces;
CE) kW capacity of all provinces for that year.
Priority Criteria
3.       An electrification priority has been established as follows:
1st areas with a relatively high economic potential which are mostly
modern villages (swasembada);
2nd important villages from the viewpoint of regional development, i.e.,
the villages having small-scale industries; and
3rd villages close to the national grid.
4.       The above assumptions and criteria are considered reasonable for
preparation of an indicative overall plan to supplement GOI's development
plans.
5.       TA program for PLN under the project would help further development
of the plan and would help establish a computerized optimized long-range RE
Development Plan methodology based on a mathematical/economic model to achieve
the GOI's objectives for RE development in the most effective and efficient
manner.



RAUAL ELCIRIFATION FROJEt T
FLN' RITEA Y RE   a.tmt P,ar..
MwaImI P,apnin                                           Ibldat                               Total
"34l                  Tetel          11      11ot.  Total                  DiJnlL m ..   . _  DV 1 a .        Tra.s.as         ula     _                 _
Rieoan       Provinc   Village   commu.r  km.   =l   tbist    IVA    ubit  kV             it 1. 1000  bp           a 1,080  w  a 1,000       1,0   A      1,a i.m01
1            2        S         4         a       6    7        8       9     10         11          12          la          14          is           to
Wilaya I     DI ACE        m      119.806  1,715   2.410           47.60         3.300  42,57.070   27W.12,1D   6.787,6     4,801.100   17.M.70    101,2041.3
ilga 1       SUIIIT      1.817     M."9    .414  15.37            118.160        a.<o0  68.747.718   54.074.475   20.666.100   7.273.900   42.599.200    Mu,,a.S
Wile" III    s1m          920      74.674  2.9    1.845            29.000        a.7c0   5.668,645   16.000.     5.364.000   5.313.200   11,201.100   6a.u 65
Run          247      74.697  1,200  1,344            29,700        2.120  29.9s7e.o   15.088.920    5.3".000   3.044,320   11.166.510   54.1,12
1.187    149,271  8.65   2,669            59.100       s.e20  8,8314.176   80.149.068   10.710.000  6,1a7.s20   22.190.150    116.910.11
WIla," IV    am1           209     27,1675    161    a"            11.10         2.000  1S.26.054    5.965.60    1.908.200   2.610.000    4,11."'    30.128.174
i110OU        287     19.496   124    418              7.750        1.620  10.285.618    4.176.66   1.03.800   2.276.100    2.924.400    20.9.0115
SlU11        494      62.4   1.649   1.0               s5.0so       2.800  36.118.866   18.450.020    4,301.000 3O 81.6500    9.426.460  68.685.0m
W.18         022      61.457    993   1.301           24.450        1.740  19.897.252   18.157.018    4.205,400   2.444.700    9.218.550  48,41,925
1.212    171.671  4.147   8,64            esas.0       7?.60  81.007149486 .70.642   11.76.200  1O.7M2.300   25.7M.o,a      186.027.230
Wity& V     KAL,          54      1.0   1.m    1.83,               Wo,oo0       8.140  44.,64,0a0   15.126.192    5.490.000   4,53.000   11,270,700  U 1.8022
Vil a  VI    NIT.I         135     20.57                0.8 20      e,a00        2,120  16.649,126    3.6411,20    1.185.100   3.090.860    8.181.400  26.mm,26
KMALBE      8J2       42.ss4  1.0o6    682            16.90         2.200  2s.,e.460    7.419.106    3,135.780   3.324.240    8.385.050  45,s00,400
IKALTIN      167      48,s66    785    578             9.450        1.980   5,e651,8s0   14.814,492    1.757.700   2,es4.710  ,11.260    32.017.116
674    1*0.800  2,496   1,690           43900        6,240  61.138,160    6.t 0.5o0    8.121.6010  8.097.920   1.545.000    114.135.490          o
Vifae VII    SAM           202     22.767    GM     862             9.050        1,660  18.61.60    4.181.66     1.68.300   2.4s6.16e    8.418U,00    27.12093S
SUTS          194     2s.7a     786    878             9,450       1SA60  18il,61.6     4.314.482    1.767.700   2,694.760   8.518.160   2.067t.16e
896     46.676  1.428    740            2s,10         8.6e   816,16,416    s,446.160    5,441,000    .311020    *.966.400  89,46,036
Wi iu s  VIU  01,06I       2       9.0  1.2    &.18                1.40          2,000  20.417,66s   12.747.106             2.876.0010  14.43.000     47.117.480
SITRA         110     18.l74    42    206              7.800        1.640  15.678,146    2,9,268    1.4572,20   2,647,760    2,91.100    25.61.891
449    116.094  1,647   1.870           46.S00        8.840  41.090.811   1816t,s470    9.218.700   S62..760   17.414.100  82.68,641
Wile" IK    KUM            269     47.927  1.6      697            19.100        2,520  27.4541.61   7,060.420    8,7M 1e60    8.273.66  7.t19.050    48.388.705
DWA          112      ts.65    a6o    So1              6.a0        2m   14.90.4D0       7.te.618    1.11111800   S.177.460    2.44,7a0    29.80.720
e4A.          48      10.6e4    104    192             4.200           0   2.860.192    2.120.265    79.e000          0    1.*57.200      .479.4,
weS           i9      21.462   a66    887              8.=00        1.60  12.861.21    4.275.664    1.16.000   2.787.920    .219.o       24,090,078
NIT          426      89.Q2M  1.340   1.078          25,wo          8.060  st.,6.0s4   11.04.854    4.474.400   4.04.120    .978.3o     60.46,978
TMIM          By       8.916   201      71             1.1=0        1.660   4,567.=5     764,06s      291.400   2.717.920    80.700      6,6.9
6as     85.250  1,219   1.7=            81,t100       Si76   60.422,s37   19,02.804    7.162,600   6,seM.160   14,377.600    a01,15.101
OR8IDE JAVA              7.140   1.282,622 24.129  21.852         461.500       80.000  60.167.811  289.642,879   80,499,800  72.706.400  s11.901s,00  1146.111.209
D. JATD7    .9TI         1.075    21.921  2.881   2,892            e7.5s                44.375.247   2s.s50.152   1.99,6,200            1,5116.110    121.415,149
O. JATES    JATDS        1..-.    3o6.127  2.162   8.9e           1?7.goo               80.046.380   89.018.376   22.477.780            45.97e.060    167S.5160
DI JOOVA      so      20.88e    182    6e             12.S0                 6.466.100    8.61s.176    2,061.900            4,2516.90     1.8925,56
0. JABAR     .IA8AR      1.00    7s5s.04  8.920  10,879          541.400               55.042.000  1001.1,151   54.65.400            U16.1.1030    11.s2s.u             0 0
O. JAYAPMe  iDa JAYAlD i
JAVA                     4,060   1.310."4   8653s  16.107         589.500              12,919,607  177.M .265   96.60.20               196.696.40    6s2.m.72m
INDOEA                  11.600   2.4s,.3sS 32.324  40,069       1,0S1.000       50.000 72,077.167  417,14.6,44  181.002.M60  72.700.400  381.00,250  1.780.484.001



- 57 -                           ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Proiect Description and Design Considerations
Project Description Considerations
1.       Sunmary project description is given in Chapter IV.  The main physi-
cal component of the project is the construction of the various RE facilities
in rural areas, which would be Implemented by PLI. These facilities mainly
consist of construction of MV and LV power distribution lines, stepdown dis-
tribution transformers, electric equipment and the diesel generating sets in
27 provinces of the country.
2.       The project also includes a comprehensive 'Technical Assistance Pro-
gram" (TA) for more efficient development of the RE subsector. TA is designed
mainly to coordinate various organizations involved in RE activities in the
country, to expedite RE development through computer software and hardware for
electrification of over 2,000 villages annually. TA would provide a long-
range RE development plan, computerized construction design and technical
specifications and bid documents, and also a system for monitoring of all RE
activities, such as RE construction development in all 27 provinces, warehouse
storage control, uniform RE accounts, statistical information for better plan-
ning and a MIS for management reporting and control. PLN would implement TA
through the use of consultants. The terms of reference for TA are given in
Annex 4-6.
3.       The training programs for PLN and MOC would assist In the development
and implementation of an efficient RE program. One of the main objective of
the training programs is transfer of the most advanced technology of planning,
construction, operation and management of RE activities from abroad, from the
most experienced countries' RE power organizations and the engineering firms
which have completed electrification of rural areas in their countries.
4.       PLN's staff related with the productive uses would be trained for
promoting the productive uses through the consultantladviser for productive
uses included in the proposed project.
S.       MOC's training program would be designed by MOC's consultants to be
employed for preparation of the 'Institutional Development Study' and would be
implemented by MOC with the help of the consultants as acceptable by the Bank.
Design Considerations
6.       In general, there is not any specific project design for the project
other than the PLN's standard RE projects construction design standards and
the technical specifications except implementation of each RE development in
accordance with the particulars of each province and each village group. PLN



- 58 -                            ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
has already entered into development of a lighter design conception for the
new RE facilities to reduce construction costs. The following table sumu-
rizes the particulars of the new lighter design proposed by PLN for the RE
construction compared to the heavier design for the high-densit- urban distri-
bution systems of PLN.
Possible
RE components               Urban design    The new design        savings (2)
MV Lines
Voltages                   Up to 35 kV      Up to 20 kV      To be determined
Conductors (n2)              150-240           35-70               53-76
Power poles:
Numberlkmc                   22              13-20               9-31
Mech. strength (kgN)      200 & 500        200 & 350              13
Insulatorss
Pin post no./kmc             57              33-51               9-14
Distribution Transformer
Unit capacity             Up to 630 kVA    Up to 50 kVA             79
Low-Voltage Lines
Voltages                    380/220 V        380/220 V               -
Conductors (Mm2)              25-70            25-35                25
Power poless
Number/kmc                   26              20-25               3-23
Hech. strength (kgN)      200 & 500        100 & 200             20-38
Generatins Stations
Type of station             Permanent     Semi-permanent            55
or mobile
Unit capacity (kw)          Over 100          20-100               n.a.
7.       PLN expects an overall savings of about 302 in its five-year RE
development plans' construction costs. There are other areas that may provide
some cost savings, such as using glass insulators instead of porcelain insu-
lators, using treated wood poles (importing the wood from abroad and treating
in the country) instead of steel and concrete poles. TA under the project
would establish basis for continuous research for improvements of the design.
4



59 _
RURAL BECTRIFICATION P"CT
prol cd Cost E tl"atet
cost stem                     L/C        F/C        Su           L/C        F/C        Sum
---  Rp bill.n--  --USU bfiIon                       --S-
P W COMPONENT
AlA. Pow  r Lnes
rTLln-;Mii a  polon          22.4       27n.5     2M5.9         12.6      154.4      167.0
Subtotal                  " t27. 2              96.9         12.6  1S4.4          167.0
Contingencies:
PhysIcel contingency          2.7       80.2       $2.9          1.6       17.0       16.6
Pric contingency              6.2       29.5       55.7          8.5       16.$       20.8
Total Continmenclhs        6.9       59.7       66.6          5.1       88.e       88.9
TOTAL CONTRACT COST       81.8       SaU.2     864.65        17.7       108.2     205.9
A.B. Tranet,ormre/uli                                                       142nt
Tr anef'orer_esjquipmest      2.8       65.0       57.9          1.8       81.4       82.7
Subtotal                    2.8        65.6      57.9          1.8       81.4       82.7
Contingenclss
PhysIcal contingency          2.2        5.6        t.S          0.1        8.2        8:8
Price contln ncy              0.2        4.2        4.4          0.0        2.4        2.4
etal Contingencies         0.4         9.8      10.2          0.1        5.6        6.7
TOTAL CONTRACT COST        2.7        6.4      06.1           1.4       87.0       86.4
AIC. Diesel Set
Diee Ir                       1.2       12.7       18.9          0.7        7.2        7.9
Subtotal                              12.7                               7.2        7.9
Contlagenciest
Physical contingency          0.1        1.20       1.8          0.0       0.         0.7
Price contingency             0.0        0.9        0.9          0.0        0.5        0.5
Total Continoenies l    0.1           2.1        2.2          0.0        1.2        1.2
TOTAL CONCT COST           1.8        14.6      16.1          0.7        6.4        9.1
AID. Construction Cost
Construc-ton Costs
(AIA+AlB+AlC)              95.5        0.0       9S.6        54.5         0.0       64.5
Subtotal                  96.5        0.0        5m C4.6                 0.0       54.5
Contingencies:
Physical contingency          9.7        0.0        9.7          5.4        0.0        5.4
Price contingency             7.8        0.0        7.8          4.0        0.0        4.0
Total Continmnenle        17.0        0.0       17.0          9.4        0.0        9.4
TOTAL CONTRACT COST      118.5        0.0      118.5         68.9        0.0       68.9
AIE. ose Connectlong
mouse Connoctlonc             0.0       126.2     126.2          0.0       71.8       71.8
House Con. Coetruction       78.5        0.0       76.5         44.8        0.0       44.8
Subtotal                  79.6       126.2     204.7         44.8       71.8      116.6
Contligenaces:
Phystcal contingency          7.9        12.1      20.6          4.4        7.2       11.6
Price contingncy              6.0        9.5       16.5          8.8        5.4        6.7
Total Continonclen        18.9       22.1       86.0          7.7       12.6       20.8
TOTAL CONTRACT COST       92.4       146.8     240.7         52.0       68.9      185.9



- 60 -
COst It es                   L/C        F/C       Su           L/C        F/C       Sun
-  pbiIlion    --                US2 atII on
A2A Productive Urn
Productive uen               2.6        0.0       6.0          1.5        8.4       4.9
Subtotal                  2.6        6.0        6.6         L          8.4       4.9
Contingenoeise
Phystcal contingency         0.2        0.6       0.6          0.2        0.8       0.5
Price contingency            0.2        0.5       0.?          0.1        0.8       0.4
Total Continogneloo       0.4        1.1        1.5         0.8        0.6 Cf9
TOTAL CONTRACT COST       8.0        7.1       10.1         1.6        4.0       5.6
ASA. Technicgl Aes". Plannino
APlnning                  0.5        0.9        1.4         0.8        0.       0.6
Subtotal                  0.         0.9        1.4         0.8        0.5       0.6
Contingencies:
Physical contingency         0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0
Price contingency            0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Continencies        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
TOTAL CONTRACT COST       0.5        0.9        1.4         0.8        0.5       0.6
ASS. Technical Aest. Standardization
TX Standards                       0.     9       1.4          0.8        0.5       0.6
Subtotal                             0.9        1 4         0.8        0.5       0.6
Contingnel ea
Physical conttngecy          0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0
Price contingency            0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Continoeneiss             0.0   02 o      0O0                              0 
TOTAL Coma  COST                     0 Q_       104 .5                           0 . 
ABC. Technical Aset. Data Urn and MIS
TA etao so" ad MIS           0.5        1.6       2.8          0.8        1.0       1.8
Subtotal                  0.5        1.6        2.8         08         1.0       1.8
Contingencies:
Physical contingency         0.0        0.2       0.2          0.0        0.0       0.0
Price contingency            0.0        0.8       0.8          0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Conttnoencies       0.0        0.5 065                0.0        0.0       0.0
TOTAL CONTRACT COST       0 .6       2.         2.6        9_          1.0       1.8
A4A.Trtninc (Plannina A Construction)
1r. Pln, and ConAt.          1.1        2.7       8.6          0.6        1.5       2.1
Subtotal                  1.1        2.7        8.6         0.6        1. 5
Contingencies:
Physical contingency       0.0        0.8        0.8         0.0        0.2       0.2
Price contingency          0.0        0.2        0.2         0.0        0.1       0.1
Total Continencie         0.0        0.6        0.5         0.0        0.8       0.8
TOTAL CONTRACT COST       1.1        8.2        4.8         0. 6       L         2.4
4                                                                      O



- 61 -                              ANrI 4-8
cost Itop LJC                            F/(C       SW          LJC         F/C       Sum
~~~Rp bIlilon              -u  US lillon----
A4M Trainina (Operations)
TR. Uperations               0.1         0.9        1.2         0.2         0.5       0.8
Subtotal                   0.8                   1.2         0.2         0.6       0.7
Contingencies:
Phvical contingency        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Pric contingency            0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total continoencl-       0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
TOTAL CONTRACT COST      0.8        0.9        1.2         0.2         0.5       0.7
ASA.Enalnoorina/Supervislon A Overhoad
Eng.1sup. and OvTrhead      48.2         0.0       48.2        24.4         0.0      24.4
Subtotal                  48.2        0.0       48.2        24.4         0.0      24.4
Contingencies:
Physical contingoncy         4.8         0.0        4.8         2.6         0.0       2.5
Price contingency             8.8        0.0        8.8         2.9         0.0       2.9
Total Contlnsancles        7.6        0.0        7.0         5.4         0.0       6.4
TOTAL CONTRACT COST       50.8        0         60.6        26.9         0.0      28.9
Total Baseline Cost         249.7      481.2      780.9       141.0       271.7     412.7
Total Physical Contingncy   25.1        60.7       75.0        14.2        21.6      42.6
Total Price Contingncy       22.5       44.9       67.4        12.7        25.5      88.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST       297.8      576.6      874.1       167.9       825.6     498.7
(PLN component)                                 ---
MOC COMPONENT
BlA. Inmtitutional DevoloRmant Stud,
Dnv. Study                   0.8         2.7        8.0         0.2         1.5       1.7
Subtotal                   0.8        2.7        8.0         0.2         1.5       1.7
Contingencies:
Physical contingency         0.0         0.8        0.8         0.0         0.2       0.2
Prica contingency            0.0         0.2        0.2         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Continaenctes        0.0        0.5        0.5         0.0         0.2       0.2
TOTAL CONTRACT COST           0.8        8.2        8.6         0.2         1.7       1.9
B1B. Training (Plannina and Construction)
TR. Plnn. a Conat.           0.2         1.4        1.0         0.1         0.9       0.9
Subtotol                   0.2        1.4        1.6         0.1         0.9       0.9
Contingenciess
Physical contingency         0.0         0.1        0.1         0.0         0.0       0.0
Prie contingency             0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Continointos e                  0.1        0.1         0.0         0s0       0.0
TOTAL CONTRACT COST        0.2        1.5        1.7         0.1         0.6       0^9



-62-                               NNEX 4-8
Pg 4
Cost Items x*.                             F,(C       Su           yeC         F/C        Sum
-          Rp(llton -bIli           i         USS million   -
UA.          Tor Tranin
TR. Equlpoo
(Hardware A software)      0.2         2.7        2.0          0.1         1.5        1.6
Subtotal                    0.2         2.7        2.9          0.1         1.5        1.6
Contingancloe:
Physical contIngncy            0.0         0.8        0.8          0.0         0.08       0.8
Price contingency              0.0         0.2        0.2          0.0         0.02       0.2
Total Continc nenes         0.0         0.6        0.6          0.0         0.5        0.6
TOTAL CONTRACT COST         0.2         8.2        8.4          0.1         2.0        2.i
Total Baseline Cost            0.7         0.6        7.6          0.4         8.8        4.2
Total Physical Contingency     0.0         0.7        0.7          0.0         0.6        0.6
Total Price Contingncy         0.0         0.4        0.4          0.0         0.1        0.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST          0.7         7.0        8.6          0.4         4.5        4.90
(MCC component)



- 63 -                              AMNNE 4-4
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement                  Indonesia
Bank     Semester        Semester       Cumulative         z      profile (power)
FY                      ---- (US$ million) -----                       (X)
1990        II              0.0              0.0          0.0            -
1991         I             29.6             29.6          9.0            0.0
II            37.8             67.4         20.5            -
1992         I             80.6            148.0         45.0            6.0
II            63.8            211.8         64.4            -
1993         I             56.3            268.1         81.5           20.0
II            30.6            298.7         90.8            -
1994         I             20.4            319.1         97.0           43.0
II             9.9            329.0        100.0            -



INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Prolect Implementation Schedule
low0            S9              1992            1993
EEUJ M  I JJIAWKINIC J |F1q l|JAS JWN| J|F||J A  JJAS|0| JIF*  J|J A^8|
B DCIflOOLc T PREFWRArN
OD EIALUAflO
CONTRACT NEGOTUAfON
CONTRACT 3000f
OONSMThUTO
TECHICAL ASSTANCE M    TRLA11   11111    HI
p/w46261x
I,n



- 65 -                           A   ,4-6
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Master Plan for Rural Electrification
Conmuterization of Planning and Design of Rural Electrification
Distribution System
Study, Design and Implementation of Data Base and Management Information
System for Rural Electrification
Background
1.       Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN) is an agency of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy of the Goverument of the Republic of Indonesia, and is
responsible for supplying electric power to the whole country, including urban
and rural areas.
2.       As of the end of REPELITA IV (March 31, 1989), about 19,000 or 312 of
the 61,228 desas (villages) in Indonesia had already been electrified by PLN.
3.       In REPELITA V, it is planned to electrify 11,600 more villages, so
that until the end of REPELITA V, the number of villages that remain to be
electrified will be about 30,600.
4.       In view of the need to improve and optimize Rural Electrification due
to the limited funds available and the capital intensive nature of the RE
program, the following have been selected as priority areas for further
considerations
(a) The development of Rural Electrification to be undertaken in stages
and on a planned basis, so that the investment will become more
efficient and effective, so that optimum benefits can be expected.
In this connection a Master plan will need to be drawn up. consisting
of several 5 years planning stages (Repelita). The planning stages
in the Master Plan will be based on order of priority.
(b) The planning and design of Rural Electrification distribution network
should be undertaken on an optimum basis. For this purpose computer
softwares should be prepared to be used in the planning and design of
Rural Electrification distribution networks.
(c) The development of Rural Electrification should be based on well-
prepared planning, backed-up by adequate data and information.
Unfortunately, to date no adequate reports or accounting data to
illustrate clearly the performance of RE are available. Therefore
improvements have to be made in the field of data and information of
Rural Electrification.



-66-                           ANNEX 4-6
Page 2
Obiectives
5.       Draw up an optimum Master Plan for Rural Electrification, which will
then be specified into several REPELITA stages for all villages in Indonesia
for the next 20 years. The planning stages should be prepared for all
provinces (Propinsi) with the following order oi prioritys
(a) The socio-economic potential and energy resources of the rural area;
(b) The load potential and its rate of growth;
(c) The existing power system and the power system in planningg
(d) The existing infrastructures and those in planning; and
(e) The regional development plan.
6.       Prepare computer softwares which can be used to optimize and make
more efficient the planning and design of the Rural Electrification distribu-
tion network, covering the system and construction/standards.
7.       Prepare a Data base and Management Information System (MIS) for Rural
Electrification to enable PLN to:
Ca) Produce/present adequate information (relevant, accurate, timely, and
up-to-date) on Rural Electrification, that could be used as a basis
for decision making as well as setting policies for Rural
Electrification.
(b) Obtain information on PLN1s participation and financial responsi-
bility in RE investment and exploitation.
Scope of Activities
8.       Master Plan for RE:
(a) Collect data on the socio-economic aspects and on the rate of loan
growths of villages electrified by PLN on a sample basis for each
province:
- Villages in the sub-urban of a city   X 10 villages
- Agricultural villages                  I 10 villages
- Fishery villages                       X 10 villages
- Small industrial villages              s 10 villages
(b) Collect data from each province, covering:
- The socio-economic potential of villages not being electrified by
PLN;
- The load potential of villages not being electrified by PLN;
- The existing power system and the power system in planning (power
stations, substations, transmissions, medium voltage lines)'
- The existing infrastructures and those in planning; and
- The regional development plan.



- 67 -                     ANNEX 4-6
Page 3
tc) Evaluate and analyze all data and divide the rural areas in each
province according to order of soclo-economic potentials.
(d) Draw up the load density map (kWIkm2) of the settlement areas of each
division of area according to point (c).
te) Using an advanced software computer program to draw up the Repelita
stages (Repelita VI, VII, VIII. and IX) according to order of
priority, includet the number of villages, consumers, physical
aspects, financial and economic feasibility and budgets.
(f) Draw up the annual planning by using an advanced software computer
program for Repelita VI for each province, coverings the number of
villages, consumers, physical aspects, financial and economic feasi-
bility and budgets.
9.       Computerization of Planning and Design of RE Distribution Systemss
(a) Analyze and evaluate the present planning and design of the Rural
Electrification distribution network in Indonesia (system and
construction/standards).
(b) Formulate the planning and design of the Rural Electrification
distribution network C system and construction/standards) suitable for
Indonesia, coveringt
- Network design;
- Determination of load centers and the magnitude of loads;
- Network route;
- Conductor size;
- Transformer size and the main characteristics of other electrical
equipment;
- Protection of the system and related equipment used, also the
design system losses and reactive power compensation; and
- Assessment of the physical need of distribution per year/short-
term, including replacement/rotation of transformers, and other
equipment in accordance with the load growth, and the number of
villages and the calculation of cost for the Rural Electrification
program.
Cc) Provide training for Rural Electrification staff at PLN Head Office
as well as PLN Region/Distribution.
Cd)  The consultant shall al8o devise a method for interphasing these
programs with the ezisting and under construction computer system of
PLN. The programs should also prepare the technical specifications
to be included in the bid documents, through a comprehensive optimi-
zation of the standard material and equipment available, and produce
PLN's uniform procurement documents with all necessary blue prints
maps and technical drawings.



- 68 -                       ANEX 4-6
Page 4
10.      Study, Design and Implementation of Data Base and HIS for REs
(a)  Examine and evaluate the existing process of Rural Electrification
implementation program (planning, budgeting, material procurement,
construction, operation and accounting process), with regards to the
procedures and the implementation.
(b)  Review the inventory data and reports on Rural Electrification, which
have static and dynamic characteristics, both existing and still to
be obtained by PLN Head Office and PLN Region, together with the
period of reporting.
(c)  Identify problems, not only in the process and procedures of imple-
mentation of the Rural Electrification program, but also in the
presentation of information on Rural Electrification. Provide recom-
mendations on solution.
(d)  Observe and evaluate, firstly, the practice of formulating and deter-
mining RE, for investment as well as for operation. Secondly, the
practice of preparing accounting reports, including budget accounting
for RE investment and operational activities.
(e)  Design a MIS on RE to be used at PLN Head Office and PLY Region,
which is well-coordinated and able to produce the required informa-
tion on Rural Electrification.
(f) Prepare a Data Base for Rural Electrification to enable accommodating
all the required data for Rural Electrification at PLN Head Office
and PLN Region.
(g)  Prepare forms to be used for input data and formats of reports to be
produced.
(h)  Prepare a computer software to be used for RE's processing in
accounting, data base and MIS. Prepare the instructions for imple-
mentation and the need for hardware.
(i)  Undertake training for PLN staff to be involved with application of
the new system at selected pilot locations, i.e., PLN Region XI.
(j)  Evaluate the results of application and make improvements.
Schedule of Activities
11.      Master Plan for RE
(a) Data collection                                s 7 months
(b) Data processing                                s 11 months
(c) Preparation of draft report                    s 4 months
(d) Preparation of final report                    : 2 months



- 69 -                       ANNEX 4-6
Page 5
12.      Computerization of Planning and Design of RE Distribution System
(a) Data collecting'                              * 1 month
(b) Data processing                               * 4 months
(c) Preparation of software                       * 5 months
(d) Training                                      * 2 months
(e) Preparation of draft report                   s 3 months
(f) Preparation of final report                   * 1 month
13.      Study, Design and Implementation of Data Base and MIS for RE
(a) Collection of datalinformation and
identification of problems                    s  6 months
(b) Preparation of software for data
base, accounting, budgeting & MIS              s 14 months
(c) Preparation of Draft Report                   I  8 months
(d) Training of PLN's staff                       t  2 months
(e) Preparation and Application at PLN
Region XI                                     a 14 months
(f) Evaluation on results and improvement         a  6 months



- 70 -                             ANEX 4-7
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Training Program for the Imvrovement
of Rural Electrification Management
Background
1.       Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN) is an agency of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, and is
responsible for supplying electric power to the whole country including urban
and rural areas.
2.       Until the end of REPELITA IV (March 31, 1989), about 19,000 or 31? of
the 61,228 desas (villages) in Indonesia had already been electrified by PLN.
3.       Experience shows that in the development and operation of rural elec-
trification (RE) some specific problems are encountered in the following
areast
-  Socio-economics  e.g., the low income of the rural population
and the consumptive use of electric power;
-  Technology: e.g., the low demand and the scattered and remote
settlement of consumers;
- Managements e.g., the manpower in RE management are expected to
be able to deal with different fields of work (administration,
engineering and finance).
- Geographical conditions e.g., many areas not having been
reached by the power grid, the development of diesel power plant
will continue to be carried out.
4.       For this reason it is necessary to learn from the experiences from
other developed/developing countries which have successfully developed their
RE programs. The activities will cover observation and training to improve
the skill and knowledge of the personnel of the RE Division and PLN
Wilayah/Distribusi responsible for RE.
Obiectives
5.       The program should provide training in the fields of planning,
development, operation, finance and administratiow of RE, management of rural
diesel power plant system and a comparative study of the personnel of the RE
Division and PLN Wilayah/Distribusi responsible for RE in relation to other
developed/developing countries which had successful achievements in their RE
programs. It is expected that this training program and the results of the
comparative study will help improve the RE condition in Indonesia.



- 71 -                        AI4-7
Page 2
Scope of Activities
6.       Establishment of a RE Training Team consisting ofs
(a) A Directing Committee for the training program; its members include
representatives from DIVDES (RE Division) DIVERENUS (Corporate
Planning Division), DIVERENPEG (Personnel Planning Division),
PUSDIKLAT (Education and Training Centre), DIVANG (Budget Division),
and DIVREN (Planning Division).
The Committee wills
- Give direction to the team which carries out the training pro-
gram or training organizer.
- Decides, together with Pusdiklat, which country/company to be
chosen as the place for training.
(b) A training organizer or 'Training Program Task Force' (TPTF). The
members are staffs from DIVDES, DIVERNFEG, PUSDIRLAT and people from
PLN Wilayah/Distribusi as resource person.
TPTF, together with Pusdiklat, will prepares
_          -  training program;
- evaluation reports; and
- recommendations for further Improvements
7.       Training preparations
(a) Prepare the required qualifications from the trainees and guidance
for operational implementation.
The fields of training include:
- Planning, covering sub-fields of corporate planning, design, and
computer;
- Development, covering sub-fields of material procurement, con-
struction, and project management;
- Operation, covering sub-fields of marketing, customers admin-
istration, operation and maintenance management, rural diesel
power plant system management;
- Finance, covering sub-fields of accounting, finance, and bud-
geting;
- Administration and Organization, covering sub-fields of organi-
zation and management, education and training program malnage-
ment.



-72-                              ANNEX 4-7
Page 3
On each sub-fields, training will be followed by one experienced
person plus 3 persons from PLN Wilayah/Distribusi. the duration of
training on each sub-fields is about 3-4 months.
After having received the training, the trainees will present a pro-
posal for improvement of the RE management and give training to the
RE personnel in the PLN regions.
(b) TPTF and Pusdiklat will prepare the training program proposals to be
submitted to IBRD for comments.
(c) Pusdiklat will make visits to several developed/developing countries
which have successful RE programs to make a comparative study.
(d) The Directing Committee and Pusdiklat will select the relevant coun-
tries where the training will be held.
(e) Provide English intensive course for staffs as necessary.
8.       Training Implementations
Training in foreign countries will be undertaken in stages.
9.       Evaluation:
TPTF with Pusdiklat will prepares
(a) Report of the training results;
(b) Evaluation of the training results, covering
- the lessons learned by the trainees;
- the results which can be applied to PLN; and
- proposal for improvement of the RE management
Schedule of Activities
Preparation of Draft Training Program                 2 months
Visits for the Purpose of Comparative Study           2 months
Selection of Countries of Training Locations
and Trainees                                         2 months
English Language Training                             4 months
Implementation of Training                           8 months
Preparation of Training Report                       2 months
Analysis and Evaluation                               2 months



- 73-                           ANNE  4-7
Page 4
The Tasks of Pusdiklat
10.      Collect data on countries/power utilities which RE program has
developed or advanced, and which may be able to give training in the fields
required by PLY.
11.      Together with TPTP, prepare the training program.
12.      Together with the Directing Committee, select power utilities as a
place for training and contract these utilities for the implementation of
training.
13.      Make arrangements to support the non-technical aspects of training
such as international transportation of the trainees, acconudation, local/
domestic transportation in the country where the training tasks place, and
other matters for the success of training.
14.      Together with TPTF, prepare reports on the results of training for
IBRD.
15.      Together with TPTF, prepare the analysis and evaluation of training
for IBRD.
16.      Together with TPTF, prepare the analysis and evaluation of training
results.
17.      Together with TPTF, prepare recommendations for further improvements
In RE management, covering the fields of planning, construction, operation,
maintenance, organization, education and training, financial and management
systems.



-74 -                             ANNEX 4-8
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Productive Uses Components Background Information
Rationale
1.       The objectives of rural electrification in Indonesia, as stated in
official documents (e.g., Act No. 1511985, Article 3), have been to
(i) improve the living conditions of the rural population and (ii) stimulate
economic activity. To date, PLN has sought actively to meet the former objec-
tive, with management targets for numbers of villages connected serving as a
rough proxy for measuring its success in extending improved living conditions.
On the other hand, PLN has taken a passive approach to the second objective
and has not had management targets or generated statistical indicators related
to the economic Activity stimulated by PLN's electrification of villages. The
effect is manifest directly in the low numbers of rural businesses that
connect to PLN and in low daytime sales and indirectly in the low levels of
productive uses of electricity and low levels of generated increases in
incomes and employment.
2.       Low Productive Use Sales. PLN's own observations, as confirmed by
Bank missions, are that the record of productive uses stimulated in rural
areas by the extension of PLN services has been low. Low load factors in
rural areas (30 - 40S) as compared with urban areas (55 - 70Z) indicate the
weakness of day-time demand for productive uses in electrified villages.
According to PLN, an estimated 90 - 95Z of the connections in rural areas are
residential. Reviews of PLN field level (cabang and ranting) customer lists
indicate that the actual percentage may be considerably higher. Based on PLN
reports and discussions, 10 - 15Z, of the villages electrified outside of Ja7a
are limited to six-hour evening service, and an additional 10 - 152 have a
maximum of 12 hour service. In sum, as high as 30S of the 8,333 electrified
villages outside of Java as of February, 1989, do not have daytime service and
thus have very limited opportunity to develop economic activities based on
productive uses of electricity. These villages typically have exclusively
residential customers. The low numbers of rural customers classified as I-1
(industries with up to 99 kva connected power, previous to April, 1989; up to
13.9 kva connected since) and their low electricity consumption are additional
indicators of the low level of productive uses of PLN services. The broad
figures for 1988 covering eight of PLN's eleven non-Java regions and two of
the four Java distribution areas indicate that 0.13S of the customers are
clasdified as 1-1, with an average of one small industry PLN customer for
every 4.95 villages outside of Java, and one per every 3.24 villages on Java.
Of total power sales, 2.412 was to 1-1 customers. PLN's current methods of
data collection and accounting do not permit the identification from head-
quarters or from regional offices of the location of these 1-1 customers, but
based on discussions and reviews of the data available on a disaggregated
basis at several sub-regional P1.N offices a negligible proportion of these 1-1
customers are located in villages. The prevalence of captive power (indivi-
dual user) generation, as indicated by reviews of registration information on



- 75 -                         ANEX 4-8
Page 2
rural industries available in Industry Department field offices, is a further
.indicator of the limited impact of PLN on the stimulatiot of economic activity
through rural electrification.
3.       Although the pattern of low PLN sales to productive users is clear,
these figures should be interpreted with some caution for several reasons:
ti) in practice, PLN, prior to April, 1989, restricted the 1-1 tariff
classification to those small industries with a minimum of 3.8 kva connected
power, thus excluding the large majority of home and small scale productive
units (there were a reported 1.44 million manufacturing enterprises with less
than 19 or fewer employees in Indonesia in 1985 as compared with total of
25,311 PLN customers classified as 1-1 in 1986); (ii) PLN's defines as
NCoumercial* many establishments considered  industryu by Indonesia's Industry
Department officials (small bakeries, water pumping, battery charging); and,
(iii) PLN classifies industries as commercial or residential if their primary
use of electricity, as determined by PLN field staff, is for lighting rather
than machinep (PLN officials cited establishments using PLN for lighting and
captive power for machines, such as sawmills and furniture factories, and most
home industries). Detailed figures on village industrial customers, on
daytime village factor loads in grid-supplied villages, and on sales to
productive users who are not classified as industry are not available.
Villages served by grid systems do not have separate metering and v'llage
productive units are generally not separated in the tariff codes from residen-
tial consumers.
4.       Constraints to Increased Productive Use Sales.  PLN has taken steps
to identify and address several critical constraints to increased productive
uses.  Donor supported activities in the late 1970's and early 1980's, includ-
ing the assignment to PLN of a USAID village level productive uses specialist,
illuminated constraints to increased productive uses. The results of these
activities, in Central Java and several outer islands, indicated that produc-
tive uses were constrained by a complex of factorss
(a) PLN's pricing and tariff structure, especiallys (i) the relatively
high connection, deposit and installation charges which served as
bars to entry; (ii) the high fixed monthly demand charges which
limited the interest of seasonal users; and (iii) the minimum of 3.8
kva connected power for the smallest industry tariff category (I-1);
(b) PLN's site (village) selection process and physical system design
which did not cater to the special needs of small business customers,
notably the use chiefly of largely non-economic factors in selecting
villages to be electrified, the locating of lines without regard to
the location of existing and potential productive users and the use
of single phase rather than three phase lines; and,
(c) The inadequate availability of complementary inputs and conditions,
that is the weak supply of capital, technology, markets, and other
infrastructure often hindered development in the rural areas and
hence the scope for increasing sales to productive users of electri-
city.



- 76 -                        ANNEX 4-8
Page 3
5.       $everal of these constraints to increased productive use sales have
been relaxed through the actions of PLN and other agencies.
(a) The pricing and tariff concerns have been addressed, in part, by the
availability of credit and installment payment arrangements and by
the April, 1989, tariff revisions which maintain a low, very
competitive tariff for 1-1 customers. Facilities are available for
the credit financing of connection and installation charges and under
the tariff revisions seasonal users will receive, once the revisions
have been fully implemented, a reduction in the fixed monthly demand
charge during the off-season (rice mills receive a 502 discount and
water pumping a 252 discount).  Potentially most important, the mini-
mum connected power for 1-1 customers has been reduced to 450 va
(lower than the 900 va lower limit recommeended in 1982 by the produc-
tive uses specialist), thus making most home and small industries
eligible for this industry tariff. PLN estimates that with the
revised lower minimum va connected for 7-l classification, 244,000
industries will be eligible to change th'eir tariff category from
residential to industrial.
(b) With regard to site selection and system design, while constraints to
increased productive use sales remain, PLN is considering steps to
ameliorate these, for instance by including productive use potential
in the pre-electrification data gathering surveys, by adding the
existence of village industries as a one of the criteria for village
selection and through the reported willingness to install three phase
lines whenever the demand arises. However, these steps to date hrve
been quite tentative, and these constraints likely will be addressed
effectively only in the context of a broad effort on the part of PLN
management to increase and improve services to productive users.
(c) The limited availability of complementary inputs is being moderated
through a wide array of government, non-governmental and private
actions to provide credit, training and markets to rural producers.
This is indicated by the strong overall growth of the small scale
sector. From 1974 to 1985, industrial enterprises with 19 or fewer
employees increased by 15t, and enterprises with 20 to 150 employees
increased by over 80t. The Bank's recent Indonesia Small and Medium
Industrial Enterprise Project estimated a 10? annual growth rate in
the small scale sector over the 1985 -1989 period.
6.       Organizational and Marketing Constraints.  The appraisal mission
identified organizational and marketing constraints which, in the absence of
specific efforts to address them, would be expected to limit the impact of the
above described efforts to relax pricing, design and other constraints. These
are related to PLN's passive approach to customers as opposed to an active
and responsive, market-oriented one which might include, for instance, prepar-
ing the potential village market before electrification (as has been done with
reported success by Indonesian NGOs engaged, on a very limited scale, in vil-
lage electrification), assisting consumers with information on potential
productive uses of electricity, demonstrating to customers the cost competi-
tiveness of PLN supplied energy over alternative sources, and coordinating
with suppliers and other agencies and organizations to facilitate the supply



- 77 -                       ANNEX 4-8
Page 4
of complementary inputs (e.g., equipment information, licenses. cred4t) neces-
sary to the initiation or expansion of enterprises.  Marketing in PLN at the
field level has been essentially the task of administratively processing
requests for new connections. Specific organizational and marketing
constraints related to PLN internal practices include:
-    PLN's incentive structure for managers and staff which does not
emphasize increasiag productive use sales in rural areas. This is
reflected in the absence of targeted objectives for such sales and
the lack of a clear strategy for a more active marketing of PLN's
services to small businesses.
-    PLN's record of service interruptions, voltage fluctuations and
delays in making connections which has led to its having a reputation
with businesses in rural areas for poor quality of service.
-    PLN's isolated field operating style which provides for little coor-
dination or cooperation between rural electrification and other orga-
nizations and agencies engaged in providing inputs for rural develop-
ment. For instance, industrial licensing by the Industry Department
is not monitored by PLN at the branch level and thus new enterprises
are established without being marketed to by PLN.
-    The inadequate communication to the market of PLN price information.
Small businesses are in many cases unaware of the competitiveness of
PLN supplied energy.
-    Tariff classification by branch level PLN staff which results in a
'residential rather than an  industrial classification for cottage
and small firms, thus denying them the advantage of the low 1-1
tariff and providing an incentive for the use of captive power.
7.       PLN is not currently organized or staffed to carry out an effective
marketing of its services to rural productive users. The headquarters market-
ing staff, who are in a separate division from the Rural Electrification Sub-
division, deal mainly from a financial perspective, and do engage in marketing
in the sense of promotion of services. The headquarters marketing staff are
concerned, in an auditing mode, to ensure that each customer is placed in the
highest tariff code possible and that the tariff regulations are biting
correctly and uniformly interpreted in PLN's regional offices. Also, as is
rational within a revenue-oriented definition of their function, the marketing
staff have not sought to develop activities to increase sales to groups
receiving the lower tariff codes.  PLN's headquarters Rural Electrification
Sub-division has not included a marketing capability. The sales functions of
the PLN regional (wilayah) and lower level marketing staff are mainly adminis-
trative such as registering applications for service and classifying customers
by tariff code.
8.       The currently proposed PLN organizational changes which are intended
to strengthen rural electrification were reviewed during appraisal. The Rural
Electrification Sub-division, which is under PLN's Deputy Director for Opera-
tions, would be expanded from 46 to 96 management and professional staff. The
additional staff would be distributed fairly equally among the three existing



- 78 -                         ANNEX 4-8
Page 5
sections responsible for planning, construction supervision and monitoring and
,evaluation. At t1& regional level, consideration is being given to either (i)
expanding the Marketing Department under the regional Operations Deputy to
include staff for rural electrification planning, construction and promotion
or (ii) establishing a separate rural electrification department under the
Operations Deputy. At the branch (cabang) level, the proposed changes would
provide for either (i) expanding the Administrative Unit to include a special
section for rural electrification or (ii) establishing a separate rural
electrification unit. An initial estimate of PLN is that the changes will
require a total of 200 additional, or reassigned, staff.
9.       The proposed organizational changes described above are intended to
strengthen PLN's capabilities to extend its services to an increasing number
of villages. The marketing and promotion of PLN services to rural businesses,
however, is not specifically contemplated in the proposed changes. For
instance, at the Rural Electrification Sub-Division level, the proposals
reviewed contained no provision for promoting productive uses. A review of
the educational requirements for the additional professional staff indicated
that, as presently envisioned, none of the proposed positions would require
marketing or business administration skills. The proposed expansion of the
Sub-division's staff does not include a provision for developing a marketing
function. At the regional level, the function of promotion is discussed in
terms of preparing programs, monitoring and promoting cooperation with village
cooperatives. At the branch level, one of the key tasks of the rural electri-
fication section as presently proposed would be the opromotion" of productive
uses. However, this function is described in PLN's internal documents as an
aspect of the planning and monitoring of cooperative rural electrification
activities rather than as a distinctive marketing activity.
10.      Under the proposed project, these continuing organizational and
marketing constraints, which are not addressed in the proposed organizational
changes, would be addressed on a pilot basis through the development of the
Small Business Service (SBS) which would be charged with the marketing of PLN
services to small businesses in rural areas.
11.      PLN's hesitancy to develop an organizational capacity and adopt a
more active marketing approach geared towards productive use customers in
rural areas can be interpreted as having derived from two factors. One is the
reluctance to enter into a field which, if not closely defined, could lead PLN
into undertaking broad rural development activities which are neither its
charge nor its area of expertise. The proposed SBS would collaborate closely
with other organizations and agencies responsible for broad development
activities in the rural areas (viewed positively from PLN's perspective as the
sources of complementary inputs) and would draw strongly upon the expertise
and capabilities of non-governmental organizations at field level.
a2.      The second aspect of PLN's hesitation is based on PLN's view of its
financial interests. PLN has little incentive to undertake targeted marketing
activities to increase sales in those situations in which more sales to small
scale productive users means higher financial losses. For the isolated diesel
units serving an estimated 30Z of the electrified villages outside of Java, in
terms of major operating costs (fuel and lubricating oil), the income provided
by I-l tariff customers does not provide for cost recovery. In these cases,



- 79 -                       ANNX 4-8
Page 6
PLN's short-term financial interests, not taking into account the requirements
for long-term market development, are currently met by not attempting to
provide service to small productive users. PLN's interpretation of its
financial interests also explains, in the context of the estimated 244,000
proauctive users who could be reclasslfied from R-1 to I-1 (with a net revenue
loss to PLN) as a result of the revised minimum connected power for I-1 users,
the absence of any PLN plan to carry out the reclassification. This is the
not atypical situation created by policies of preferential tariffs and cross-
subsidies, under which the incentive is not to increase services to the groups
which are the intended beneficiaries of the policies.
13.      There are two categories of supply situations under which the more
intensive utilization of the PLN's installed supply infrastructure through
increased use by small productive users during the day would be of immediate
financial benefit to PLN, and it is to these situations that the activities of
the productive uses component of the proposed Project would be directed.
These ares (i) grid systems in which increased day-time factor loads would
lead to improved fuel efficiency (generally. liters used per kwh produced
decline as the size of the diesel and the load factor increase) and to higher
revenues. The I-1 tariff is essentially equivalent to the off-peak industrial
tariff, which is (according to PLN's marketing division) fixed at a cost-
recovery level for grid supply. This situation would include those villages
which are soon to be connected to a grid, including those which are presently
served by an isolated diesel; and, (ii) micro-hydro systems in which the
marginal operating cost to PLN of increased day-time sales would be essen-
tially nil.
14.      Ion-Goverrmental Organizations (NGO's).  Indonesian NGO's have exper-
iences and capabilities which are of interest to PLN as it seeks to expand its
productive use sales. The NGO's are stronger in their operations in Java than
in the other areas visited by the mission. Under the proposed Project, PLY,
through the SBS would contract with several NGO's to carry out field level
activities jointly with PLY to promote inrreased productive uses of electri-
city. The specific approach and activities for each cabang would be designed
by the SBS in close consultation with the NGO(s) selected. Four of the NGO's
visited during the preappraisal and appraisal missions operate on a multi-
province level and have been responsible for programs which promote rural
productive activities which are of potential interest to PLNs
(a) Pusat Pengembangan Agribisnis (PPA, the Center fez Agribusiness
Development), based in Jakarta, was founded in 1978. It has
experience with international cooperation agreements, forty staff not
including volunteers, reports a US$500,000 annual budget, and is
engaged in training, rural business opportunity identification, and
the introduction of appropriate technology.
(b) Lembaga Penelitian, Pendidikan dan Penerangan Ekonomi dan Sosial
(LP3ES, the Institute for Economic and Social Research, Education and
Information), based in Jakarta, was founded in 1971. It has
experience with international cooperation agreements, 135 staff not
including volunteers or part-timers, has a $750,000 annual budget and
is engaged in comunmity development, training, and the promotion of
village level economic activities including small industries.



- 80 -                       AM=NB  4-8
Page 7
(c) Yayean Dian Desa (YbD, Light of the Village Foun'dation), based in
Yogyakarta, was founded in 1972. It has experience with international
cooperation agreements, 166 staff of which 142 are technical and
field staff, has a $500,000 annual budget and works with community
groups in water programs, shrimp farm promotion, and the promotion of
appropriate technologies
(d) Lembaga Pengembangan Tehnologi Pedesaan (LPTP, Appropriate Technology
Development for Rural Areas Group), based in Surakarta, was founded
in 1980. it has some experience with international cooperation
agreements, 22 staff, has a small annual budget (approximately
$15,000 in fixed costs), works with community groups and has specific
experience in the promotion of micro-hydro units for villages for
productive uses.
1S.      Of the four NGO's mentioned above, Dian Desa and LPTP, both based in
Central Java, because of their current activities, interests and capabilities,
are immediate candidates for joint activities with PLN. Dian Desa has consi-
derable engineering skills, long experience in the promotion of village level
metal working (including the production of agroprocessing equipment) and other
small industries, and it has an impressive network of technical advisors
working in villages in Central Java and other provinces. LPTP has specific
experience in the introduction of productive use-linked microhydro systems,
and independently of the Project has been seeking support to carry out more
activities in the area. The productive uses component of the Project provides
for a close collaboration between PLN and NGO's in carrying out of field level
activities.
Activities, Pilot Areas and Budget
16.      Activities which would be carried out by the SBS under the project
are conceptualized as an integrated marketing of PLN services to rural
businesses. The SBS would systematically identify direct and indirect enter-
prise level constraints to increased kwh business sales by PLN and develop low
cost marketing methods, including improved PLN customer services, to address
these constraints. Major categories of SBS activity, including those required
to develop the details of cabang level strategies and actions, would be:
(a) Market Identification. Identification of market dimensions, charac-
teristics and customer lists through: (a) the review of existing
information of PLN and other agencies; and, (b) cabang level village
and customer surveys. This will include information on existing PLN
business customers and potential business customers (e.g., types,
activities, current energy use, technology use, purchases from PLN,
captive power data).
(b) Constraints Identification. Identification of constraints to
increased PLN sales, boths (a) PLN service related constt.alats; and,
(b) enterprise constraints such as information, business or techno-
logy skills, technology access, finance, and availability of comple-
mentary services (information, technology, finance, training, tech-
nical assistance).



- 81 -                       ANNEX 4-8
Page 8
(c) Technolosy Identification. Identification of potential for introduc-'
ing additional electricity using technologies through analysis of
information generated through the market and constraints surveys and
through technology searches carried out through contacts with suppli-
ers, researchers, other agencies, technologists and other specialists
or, in some cases, through short technology identification studies.
(d) PLN Service ImDrovements. Identification and introduction of
measures to improve PLN customer services and responsiveness to
businesses, including paying points, tariff category reclassifica-
tion, tariff information, connections and upgrading of connections,
appropriate promotional policies and other measures
(e) Small Business Services Develovment. Development and delivery of two
types of small business services for the improved marketing of PLN
services: (a) Individual assistance packages for individual enter-
prises (e.g., energy use audits, business audits, technology demon-
strations, information on comparative costs of captive and PLN power,
bureaucratic debottlenecking and facilitation to other services);
and, (b) group assistance packages (e.g., info-mation on PLY
services, technology demonstrations, training, _upport or collabora-
tion with activities of other agencies and organizations).
(f) Organization. Implementation through: (a) PLN staff (with the assis-
tance of a technical advisor); (b) contracts with field level NGO's;
and, (c) collaboration with technology suppliers and agencies (e.g.,
Cooperatives, Industry) responsible for broad rural development and
small business development. The SBS would develop and implement
customized action plans for each of the five pilot areas.
(g) Training. Training of PLN staff in the effective promotion of
productive uses of electricity.
(h) Targets, Monitoring, Cost-Effectiveness and Evaluation. Adoption of
quantitative program targets, including periodic results and process
indicators of SBS performance based on a management information
system, and the monitoring and evaluation of performance in terms of:
- the number of rural businesses connected;
- the total connected power of rural businesses;
- the volume of kilowatt hour sales to rural businesses; and,
-   unit costs of SBS marketing activities.
l7.      Pilot Areas.  The SBS pilot program will be carried out over a three
year period in the following five PLN cabang:



- 82 -                       ANNEX 4-8
Page 9
Cabant                   Current Number Small Industrial Units
Total          in PLN villages           I-1
Solo, Central Java            10,444              6,870                 50
Yogyakarta                     8,432               6,066                100
Ujung Pandang                  1,793                 771               N.A.
Binjai, North Sumatra          2,210              1,440                N.A.
Sibolga, North Sumatra         8,953              3,429                N.A.
* This information is based on Industry Department lists of registered
family and small industry units of less than 20 employees as compiled by
PLN. Actual number of units is considered to be higher. More complete
information, including breakdowns by industrial branch, are included in
the project files.
The five represent areas of different degrees of anticipated potential for
increasing productive use sales based on the current number of registered
smll industries, current number of PLN small industry customers, economic
activity of the area, and the existence of other supporting inputs, including
the activities of technology suppliers. non-governmental organizations and
other public sector agencies.



- 83 -                           ANNEX 4-8
Page 10
J ACTION PLAN OUTLINS
A. Project objectives and results indicators
B.  Methodologyr
Approach - to identify direct and indirect enterprise level constraints to
increased kwh business sales, and to develop methods (direct and
indirect), for removing these con,traints.
Mlaior features (area of activity)
1.   Identification of market dimensions and customer lists through
(a) the review of existing information of PLN and other agencies and
(b) cabang level customer surveys. This will include information on
the characteristics of existing PLN business customers and potential
business customers (e.g., types, activities, current energy use,
technology use, purchases from PLN, captive power data).
2.   Identification of constraints to increased PLN sales, both (a) PLN
service related constraints and (b) enterprise constraints such as
information, business or technology skills, technology access,
finance, other, and availability of complementary services (informa-
tion, technology, finance, training, technical assistance).
3.   Identification of potential for introducing additional electricity
using technologies through analysis of information generated through
market and constraints identification and through technology searches
carried out through contacts with suppliers, researchers, technolo-
gists and other specialists or, in some cases, through short techno-
logy identification studies.
4.   Identification and introduction of measures to improve PLN customer
services and responsiveness to businesses, including paying points,
tariff reclassification, tariff information, connections and upgrad-
ing of connections, appropriate promotional policies and other
measures.
5.   Development and delivery of two types of small business services for
the improved marketing of PLN services: (a) INdividual assistance
packages for individual enterprises--energy use audits, business
audits, technology demonstrations, information on comparative costs
of captive and PLN power, bureaucratic debottlenecking and faci!tta-
tion to other services--and (b) group assistance packages--informa-
tion on PLN services, technology demonstrations, training, support or
collaboration with activities of other agencies and organizations.
6.   Adoption of quantitative program targets, including results indica-
tors and process indicators, of SBS performance based on a management
information system which will allow the monitoring of performance in
terms of output and unit costs.



-84 -                          AMN      4-8
Page 11
7.   Implementation through (A) PLN staff (with the assistance of an
advisor), (b) contracts with field level non-governmental organiza-
tions, and tc) collaboration with other agencies (e.g., Cooperatives,
Industry), responsible for broad rural development and small business
development.
8.   Training of PLN staff in the effective promotion of productive uses
of electricity.
C. Strategy for pilot program (discussion of limited pilot effort covering
five cabangs, the use of both PLN and NG) capabilities, collaboration with
other agencies, and the three year time period).
D. Major actions land schedule. This is a critical section of this action
plan. This can be done following the outline of the eight features noted
above, indicating the detailed activities which will be done for each one, the
timing, the resource requirements, and organizationtil responsibility. Indivi-
dual bar chart schedules for each of the areas woul6d be useful, along with an
updated version of the broad time schedule of the overall component.
S. Organizational structure and resource requirements (organizational charts,
personnel position descriptions, terms of reference.
P. Logistical and procurement arrangements at PLN's headquarters, regional
and district levels for SBS program.



- 85 -                           ANNEX 4-9
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIPICATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Technical Adviso - Small Business Service
1.       Scope.  The Technical Advisor for the Small Business Service (535)
will assist PLN in the conceptualization, plan!'-e  implementation and moni-
toring and evaluation of the three year pilot SBs program.
2.       Background.  PLN, Indonesia's national electricity utility enter-
prise, is carrying out a major rural electrification program. PLN is
concerned that its services contribute to the development of productive
activities as well as meeting the needs of residential consumers. As part of
its rural electrification program, PLN will develop SBS to market and promote
PLN services to small businesses in rural areas. The Advisor will be expected
to play a major role in assisting PLN management and staff in the development
of its SBS.
3.       Maior responsibilities.  The Advisor will:
(a) Prepare during the first quarter of assignment a strategic plan for
the pilot program for the approval of PLN management. The document
will include recoamendations on major policy, organization and
procedural measures to be adoptad by PLN management, resource
requirements and major accomplishments expected.
(b) Assist the Deputy Director of Operations in charge of the Rural
Electrification Division at PLN headquarters in the development and
staffing of its new SBS team.
(c) Assist in the development of annual operating plans for the SBS
program at the headquarters, regional and branch office levels.  The
Advisor will prepare a planning manual to be used in the development
of the annual plans.
(d) Design and implement a training program for the key PLN staff
participating in the SBS program.
(e) Review, on a frequent and recurrent basis, the implementation of the
SBS activities in the field, assist in their implementation, and
recommend to PLN management at the appropriate level the actions to
be taken to improve the program's operation.
(f) Develop opportunities for PLN collaboration with other organizations
(official, non-governmental, cooperative, business, university) in
the promotion of SBS.



- 86 -                       ANNEX 4-9
Page 2
tg) Present recommendations to PLN management on the requirements for
short-term technical assistance which will be requiree in the
development and implementation of the program.
(h) Design the framework for the management information system to monitor
the impacts of the SBS. The system will include both regular quanti-
tative reporting from the field as well as special impact studies
commissioned on the advice of the Advisor.
(i) Prepare annual evaluation reports for the PLN management on the pilot
efforts and the longer-term needs for improving and expanding PLN
services to small business clients in rural areas.
4.       Organizational arrangements.  The Advisor will report directly to the
head of the Rural Electrification Division at PLN headquarters. He will work
closely on a daily operating basis with his counterpart, the head of the SBS
team to be established at PLN headquarters. The Advisor will have ready
access to the PLN Regional Managers. The Advisor will be based in the Jakarta
offices of the Rural Electrification Division and will travel on a frequent
and periodic basis to the areas in which the pilot program is being imple-
mented. The Advisor will have a small support staff.
5.       Qualifications.  The Advisor will be a senior expert who will be able
to deal effectively with top PLN management and staff. Specific requirements
aret
Ca) Hold a recognized post-graduate qualification in a relevant disci-
pline or field (business administration, marketing, rural develop-
ment).
(b) Have a minimum of ten years of international experience with increas-
ing scope and responsibilities in appropriate fields (e.g., rural
electrification, rural development, small business develolment,
organizational development, marketing).
(c) Be fluent in written and spoken English.
(d) Be fluent in spoken Bahasa Indonesia or have the demonstrated capa-
city to learn the language during the assignment's initial phase (six
months).
(e) Have a demonstrated capacity tot (i) develop new and innovative
activities; (ii) work effectively in a technical assistance role; and
(iii) achieve results.
6.       Timina.  The services of a Technical Advisor will be made available
for up to 36 months beginning the first quarter of 1990.



- 87 -                                        ANNEX 6-1
Pal
VDOESIA
0 AL ELECTRIFICAA&N PROJECT                                     *
PUN - Post Financlol Result.
tncome Stetneente
(ftp billion)
Fiscal year                 1981/82   19M2/88   1988/84   1984/86   1986/88   1986/67   1987/88   laBe/O /9
Sals lncre _  (1)            20.8      16.0       0.9      10.4      16.1       16.4      15.5      17.8
Energy *les (0k)            7,845     9,101    10,000    11,041    12,706    14,786    17,077    20,027
Averag, revenue (Rp/kWh)     48.8      56.5      76.0      97.8      90.6    90.5         92.6      91.9
Enrgy revenue                 840       514       760     1,080     1,227      1,862     1,681     1,840
Other operating revenue        16        21        27        81        86        48         46        59
Total Revenueo           56n       58        767     1.111     1.268     1.425      1.629     1,899
ODeratitn Exensee
Fuel/bulk poer              147       288       477       712       776       720        881     1,007
Operations                  107       148       165       208       287       251        820       877
Depreciation                121       145       158       204       201       821        488       521
Totsl Exegnse.           875       671       600     1.119     1.278     1.292      1.689     1.905
O9eratino Income         (109                (18)       (8)      (10      188        (10n      It).
Other incom  (net)              I         _         -       (14)       (21)       (9)       (8)        -
Oross interest                 29        88        68       144       110       164       214        272
Lesa lntereot during
construction                 27        28        44       120        86        77        96        186
Interest Charmed to
Operations               2         _        1         24        24        87       118        186
"et Incom  lb             2        (4m1 (82)           (                    87       (186)     (142)
Rate base  c                  976     1,218     1,497     1,008     2,779     8,867      5,100     6,928
Rate of return (M)           (1.9)     (8.0)     (0-0)      (0-4)     (0.8)      8.4      (0.2)     (0.1)
Operating ratio (3)           105       107       102       101       101        91        101       100
/ Unaudited.
b Before taxes (am pare. 5.19).
&S Based on fevalustion of *Ixod as*etc from FY79,80 onwards, in accordance with Government Regulation No.
45/1986 dated October 2, 1986 (se para. 5.21).



- 88-                                       ANNEX 6-1
Pass 2
INDONESIA
RbAAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN - Post Financial Results
Belno. Shets
(Rp billion)
Floscl yer                             1981/82  1982/88  1918/14  1984/865  19825/8  1966/7  1987/88  1988/89/&
ASSETS
Fixed AsseJt
Plant In service                   1,718   2,124    2,7M      8,710    6,002    6,888    6,779    12,064
Les:  Accumulated depreciation       276      486      614      642    1,186    1,984    2,179    2,882
Net plant in service               1,442    1,669   2,157    2,668    8,966    6,249   6,600       9,162
Work In progr                      1,067    1,870    1,878   2,148    2,608    8,192   4,112       8,674
Total Ftxed Asset.                2.499  .J0O9   4.085    6.016   6.869    8.441   10.712    18.098
Cdrrent Asset.
Cash                                 179      287      142      181      124      216      289       295
Inventories                           96      122      171      218      280      146      210       244
Receivableo                           66      108      l65     1t6       208      226      268       268
Other current assot                   28       80       44       44       45       29       27        42
Tot l Current Asset.                864      497      522      574      657      617      789       684
Other Aseet                              -        1        1       18       20       69      148       176
TOTAL ASSETS                      2.8B8    8.657    4.558    SjSM    74S    9.127  11.694    14.096
EQITY AND LIABILIES
Paid-in capItal                      1,408    1,779    2,017    2,442    8,000    8,422   4,282      6,242
Retalned *arnings                      (88)     (69)     (97)    (148)    (198)    (152)    (268)     (480)
Revaluation r rve                      611      931    1,088    1,288    1,489    2,120   2,912      8,799
Total Eauity                      2.246    2.641    8.008    8.587    4.246    C.890   6.906      8.611
Long-tare debt (net)                   276      417     S66    1,802    1,856    2,t86    8,140    8,483
Current liabilities                    112      208      285      227      812      468      695     1,019
Other liabilities b                    249      261      454      642      682      787      858       982
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES      2.88B    .c667   4.568   L609    7,048    9.127   11.S94    14.095
Debt X of debt e equity /c                14       17       27       82       as       40       41        89
Current ratio (tieso)                    8.4      2.4      2.2      2.5      2.1      1.8      1.1       0.9
1 Unaudited.
Ib Including consumers* contributions and deposits.
/c IneludIng consurs* cotributions, but excluding r evluation surplus.



- 89 -                                      ANN!X 5-1
INDONESIA
RIMAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN - Pea Financlal Result
Funds Flow Statawnts
(Rp billion)
Flscal year                        1981/82  1982/68  19#8/64  19#4/65  19N6/U  198J/87 1967/89  1998/89 la
Internal Sources of Fund.
Not Income betore intoro t
and tex                         (16)      (86)     (18)       (22)    (81)      124       (8)      (6)
Depreciatlon                       121      145      158       204      261       821      488      E21
Conum_re contrlbutlons and
other adjustment.                 go       46      16i?       71         9      108      115      180
Totsl Intrnal Funds             188      154      812       258      819      558       58S      645
Ou sntlonol Rou rement
Variation working capitel and
other.                           (5)      (41)      98        71       19      (107)      (8)      so
Debt repaymnt                        8       11       21        62       185       67      269      117
Interet charged to operations        2        5       19        24       24        87      110      186
Total Operational Reauirament     5      (25)               14?      176       67       879      268
Total capital Invetnmnt              496      SOS      981     1,080    1,408    1,712    1,925    1,979
Balance to be Financed          868      406      602       924    1.287    1.22J    1.875    1.617
Fianned by
Borrowings                         182      i5       469       466      702       696      962      71
Govrnmnt contributlons             279      811      280       426      568      442       660      960
Total CaDitol Sources           411      464      707       9181   1-2!0    1.81    1.792    1.678
Cash IncreaseiDecremse           48       58                 (11) Im                     28       56
Debt  ervlce coverage ratio (times) 10.8    J6.        8.6       2.4       1.7      2.6      1.1      2.0
Contribution to construction:
Annual (3)                        25.6    80.6    16.2        11.4    10.5    28.0         6.9     16.5
8-year average (X) jb             29.9    80.8    28.6        16.8    12.9    15.9    18.4         14.6
Uneudlitd.
Z Current and two preceding years.



- 90 -                                     AX  1
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PUN - Indonelsa Operations
Ineeme StateMent.
(Rp billIon)
Actsal         Estimte                       Projection
Flisol year                   1987/68   1996/60k 1989/S0   1990/91  1991/92  l0M/98  198/04  1994/95
Energy saloe (QWh)            17,077   20,027      22,697   20,112   29,982  U8,169   86,860  48,862
Sales Iner._  (1)               15.5    17.8         18.8    15.1    14.6       14.2     18.7     12.0
Av-ersa  revonue (Rp/kWh)      92.60    91.37      116.82   121.08   125.69   180.94   186.19  141.63
Average revenue inrneae (X)    (0-9)    (C. )        26.6      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Ooeratl no Revenues
Energy revenue               1,661    1,640       2,640    8,161    8,769    4,474    5,291    6,212
Other operating revenue         48       69          68       74       67      102      117      186
Total Revenue             1.629    l.89        2.708    8.285    8.855    4.576    5.408   0.848
Owaretl 2 E-:!FeMs
Fuel and lubricating oil       870      996       1,161    1,882    1,546    1,767    1.8S    2,104
Power purchased                 11       12          12       18       18      100      159       14
Pereonnel expense              149      172         215      228      242      256      272      268
Repe or/mentennce              116      1J8         184     16       191      215      274      888
Depreciation                   488      521         661      68M    1,001    1,141    1,847    1,681
Other cxpenes                  56        72          69       95      100      106      118      119
Total Exenses             1.689    1.905       2J23    2-679    8.098    8.C84    4.050   4.489
Ooeratina Inme              (10      tf)        _84      660      7        992    1.868    1.865
Nonoperating In ome               26       81          18       16       28       80       89       SO
Nonoperating expense              88       81          U4       87       41       48       sO       55
Other Incom_ 0Ne             Le       la )       (21)     (19)     (16I     (16)     (11)       g
Not Income lore Interest  (18         (O         418      587      744      976    1.847    1.4
Interest charged to operations   118      186         157      260      808      807      819      294
Net Incoe                  (188)    (142)        257      267      486      669    1.028    1.660
Rate baee (revalued)           5,100   6,928        6,976   10,708   12,617   18,956   16,418   20,109
Rate of return (3)              (0.2)    (0.1)        4.6      5.2      6.1      7.1      8.8      9.8
Operating ratio (U)              101      100          64       88       80       76       75       71
/a Unaudited.



- 91-
IWIOESIA
RWAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN - Java Ohratten.
Inco_ StatoMnts
(Rp billion)
Actual        Estimlte                       ProJection
Fiscal yar                    1987/98   19I8/89/n 1989/90   1990/91  1991/92  1902/98  1998/94 1994/9C
Energy soles (ah)             18,398   15.692      17,754   20,298   28,285   26,488   80,0o6   a8,978
Soles Incr ea  (X)              15.7     17.1        18.1     14.8    14.5    14.0    18.6    18.0
Averags revenue (tp/kWh)       90.90    90.49      118.865   11.40   128.14   126.07   188.19   168.52
Averags revenue Incrase (1)    (0.6)    (0.6)        25.6      4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
Oseratino Revenue.
Energy r-evnue               1,219    1,420       2,021    2,408    2,061    8,892    4,004    4,706
Other operating revenue         86       44          46       62       61       6s        76       89
Total Revonues            1.255    1.404       2.060    2.4C5    2.922    8.461    4.082   4.705
Oneratino Ex, nss
F=1 =d !%b-!--t!nS oil         6F       074         !06      '"     ,.2,              !,84    !,Set
Power purchased                 1O       11          11       11       11        98     157        12
Personnel expse n2                      107         18O      187      146       154      164      178
Repe r/al ntenance              78       so          87       98      114       126      1o6      194
Depreclotlon                   299      854         443      697      662      765       901    1,002
Other expons                    a3       45          68       67       70       75       6o        64
Total Ex nen              1.102    1.279       1.589    1.796    20182    2.4ss    2.$07    8.118
Operati no Ince             158     l6          526      659      790      988    1.275    1.877
Nonoperating lncom                 7       21           7       14       16       28        sO       8s
Nonoperotino expense              26       16          16       29       82       85        89       48
Other Income MNet)          (19)   6             (11) I)            14       (12)     L U      M
Noet Income Before In;eroet L84      190         517       44      776      956    1.266    1.673
Interest tharged to operations    9       l 11e       110      216      222      206      197       176
Net Incom                    86       74         407      426     S4       750    1.07 9    1.498
Rate base (revalued)           8,e60    5,0a0       6,698    7,604    8,704    9,488   10,994   18,447
Rate of return (3)               4.1      8.7         8.0      8.4      9.1    10.8    11.6        12.5
Operating ratio (3)              a6        67          74       78       78       72        69       65
I Unauditd.



ANEX 5-1
- 92-                                        -
W OESIA
RURAL ELECTRRFPCATZWN PROJECT
PLN - Nen-Jav Operatlon
In _m Statmnts
(Rp bilIon)
Actul EItimat                                  Preteton           _
Fiscal year                   198l /U8  Igs/e9k 1989/90   1990/91  1991/U2  1992/98  1998/04  1994/95
Energy eal.s (Ub)              8,679    4,885       4,W8    5,619    6,697   7J681    8,J65   9,69
Sales Increase (3)              14.6     17.9        14.0     17.7    1.1       14.7     14.4     12.6
Average revnue (Rp/kWh)        98.47    96.99      125.20   180.21   185.42   140.84   146.47   162.88
Average revenue InCease (X)    (1.4)    (1.5)        29.1      4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
Onorati no Revenue.
Energy revenue                 862      420         619      756      907    1,082    1,237    1,506
Other operating revenue         12       15          16       22       26        U        89       47
Total Revenue.              874      485         687      780      9       1.115    1.828    1.655
operati no Expense_
Fuel and lubrWating oil        275      821         85S      446      487      491       540      541
Power purchaed                   1        1           1        2        2         2        2        2
Personnel expense               7t       65          8S       91       96       102      106      115
R.plr/eainten.ncn               48       45          47       60       77       90       114      189
Depreciation                   189      167         216      256      819      87        446      589
Other expense                   22       27          28       28       8o       81        8        86
Tot a Exoense               587      628         780      e8g      961    1.091    1.248    1.871
Oneratina Incoem            168)) (1091)                 Cm2 8               24       88       182
Nonoperating lncom                16       10           6        4        5         7        9       11
Nonoperating ax_pen                7       15          16        S        9        11       11       12
other Income  net)           11        g         1101 o              m         )      Jl .
Nt Inc._ Before Interest (15)1  (16 I           (104)              I2)       20        e1      181
Interest charged to operations    20       20          46       62       6o      lo      182       119
Not Snce_                  (172)     1)         p0)    t169)    11)          81)      161)      62
Rate bas  (reovlued)           1,420    1,68M       2,288    2,904    4,818    4,625    5,424    6,e62
Rate of reurn (3)              (11.5)   (10.1)        (4.1)    (8.5)    (0.7)    0.4       1.6      2.6
Operating ratio (3)              144      144         115      118      108       98        94       so
le Unrudlted.



- 93 _m   5-1
REAL ELECTRICATION PROJECT
PLN - Indonosi Oserattons
alance  Shet
(Rp DilIion)
Actual       Estlrto                        Prol ctlon
Floc l y " r                 115715    3W5/SIbi  ;gjW/ 9/0 199 I             ,/2  lm99a  19V/94  150/3
ASSETS
PTxEd Asse
Plant in service          8,779  12,064       14,764  17,667  21,188  2J8.46   29,67   86,6564
Less: Accm. dmpreclation 2,170   2,662         8,760   4,968   6,082   7,601    9,191  11,248
Operating plant      e        eoo   9.182     11.004  is        16,050  16847  20.405  24.811
Work In progr             4,112    8,674       6,061    5,788    7,546  11,501  14,116  18,6,2
Total Fixed Asset.       10.712  18.0S6       16.065  16.747  22.597  27.846  34JQ0   48.06S
Current Asse t
Cash and bank               289      295         290      851      482      521      561     645
Accounts recoivable         204      227         804      846      418      490      C80     6N1
Inventories                 210      244         247      249      269      827     877      485
Other curront asset          B6       98         108      106      118      119      125     181
Total Current Asset         789      664         944   1.054    1324    1.458   1.6         1.692
Other  ssets                  148      175         280      288      286      241      248     248
TOTAL ASSETS             11.594  14.096       17.289  20.084  24.082  29.64e  868509  45.198
E WIY AND LAILITES
19idtLin capital            4,262    6,242       6,617    7,517    6,892   9,267   10,107   10,627
Reolned earnings           (286)    (480)       (178)      64      520   1,169   2,217   8,7m
Revaluation surplus       2,912    8,799       4,761   5,605   6,664   7,699   8,974   10,559
Total Equity              e.9o    8.611       11.205  18.408  15.576  18.156  21.296  26.268
Long-term debt (LTD)        8,468   4,042        5,648   4,918   6,550    9,156   12,648  16,976
Les: Current portion          U81      659         808      445      467      490     515      640
Net long-term debt        8.140    8.468       4.141   4.46E         6.08   6 686  18.181   16.486
Current Liabilities
Current portion of LTD      816    659           808      887      840      846      8l      892
Accounts payable            816      404         424      446      467      490      615     540
Other current liabilities    61       68          s9       61       es       as       72      75
Total Current Liabilities   605    1.019         786      648      672      904      046   1.007
Consumerrs contributions      6o0      682         752      991    1,040   1,206    1,896   1,607
Other liabilitie /b           247      8oo         855      426      511      618      786     68
TOTAL EQUT  A LIUBILITIES  11,594  14 09C       17.2t9  20084  24.082  29.646  86.509  45.199
Current ratio (timle)           1.1      0.9         1.2      1.8      1.4      1.6      1.6     1.9
Debt as X debt plus euity /a  40.5    88.6          a.5    84.6    87.9    42 6        4S.9    50.2
Accounte rcenivable (days)       47       45          42       40       40       40      40       40
/ Unaudited.
I1 Including consumere' deposits.
Li Including consumers' contributions, but excluding reovluation surplus.



- 94 -                                 AM    1
MEAL ELECTRIVICATIcN PROJECT
PLN - Indoneia Operatlons
Funds Flow Sta wtnt
(Mp *IIon)
Aitual       EwEtimte                      Prolgcion
Flcnl year                      19|yT/s  1908/ |9/     7W   1990s 1n lvz 99/sJ 19997(94  1994/95
SWCES OF RUlS
internal uource
Not incom bfore Interest        (0)      (6)       418      587      744    1,076    1,847   1,656
Depreciation                   48s      621        661      858   1,001    1,140    1,84?    1,681
Consuml' contelbutions          67       78         70      1s8      149      167     188      212
Other                           48       54         60       71       es      102      128     147
Total Internal Sources        5s       645       1 204   ) eoo   1.079   2.a8c   S.005 O     .047
Debt Service
interet chargd operation.    110        186        157      280      908      807     810      294
Debt repayment                 260      117        201      808      887      840      845     861
Total Debt Service            887      268        488      ass      645      647     664      e65
Net Internal Sourcs           148      a92        Z7     1.017   lj.i   1.788    2.841   8.191
Borrowings                       982    n7           989      680   1,951   2,928   8,610   4,660
Governmt equ7ty                   a         o      1,875    g0         676      875     84       820
TOTAL SOURCES               1.940   2.8 .080   2.547   4.160   5.56    6.991   8.6e0
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Cwt l ExLIturs
Con tructon *xc;ituro      1,680    1,848      2,617   2,480    8,787   4,796   5,m        7,062
Interet during conotructi       0 9     186 I6                sa     256      560     0s    1,444
Total Casital Exenditure   1.925   1.979        2.718   2.491    SI!   5.856 C.92 s.s06
Change. In working capital
*nd other                       15       66       8s7        56      167      180      164     174
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          1.940   2.065       a.000   2.647   4.160   56   60.1 M          .680
Inerwa  (Decrease) In Cach    28       58          M                01 81 89         60       64
Cash at beginning of year          216      289        295      290      851      482     521      se1
Cash at end of year                289      296        290      851      482      521     S61      645
AnnuAl de  service coverage
ratio (time.)                    1.1      2.0        2.5      2.4      2.7      8.8     4.1      5.8
Self-Financine R t Xl 1
Annual                           6.9    15.5        14.7    88.8    29.2    29.1    81.9    85.1
8-year moving evwrago
(current + 2 past y  re)      18.4    14.6        12.7    28.2    27.5    81.1    80.8    82.6
La Unaudited.



-95-                                                   J1-
WURAL ELCTRIFIATION PROJECT
PLM - ndon  Jaw jo,nd Non-lila  Reet1 ons
Calculatlons of Rate /so L
(Rp billIle)
Fiscal yeur                         1"06/87  1967/0f  1066l 9  19 9/90 1l 0/91  1"1/92 1902/98    1098/94   1994/95
Indonesla Operatlone
Gross txed asset  (revalued)       0,088    6,77?   12,064  14,704   17,867   21,18U    28,848    29,676   85,664
Leest Accumulated depreclation    1,584   2,179   2,662    8,700   4,356    0,082         7,501     0,191    11,248
Net Fixed Asoets In Oeretleon   5.249   0.000   9.182   11.004  11.000   16.0C1    16.847    20,4 t   24.811
Leos: Consumers* contributlons
(revalued)                 755      898    1,048   1,190    1,406      1,620    1,862    2,185    2,444
Balnce                         4.404   6.707   .l19   0.814   11.608    18.841   14.485    18.880   21.867
Rate Base                         -     t.100   60928    8.976  10.700   12.517 U      8.6      16.413   20.109
Jove Operations
Gross fIxed assets (rovelued)      4,909   6,264    6,805   10,607   12,665    14,081    16,270   20,246   24,145
Less: Accumulated depreciation    1,096    1,497    1,979   2,5S8    8,882    4,167       5,124    6,260    7,688
Nae Fixed Asset  In Operation   8.938   4.767   0, NO    8.829   9.838   10.464    11.146    18.986   16.507
Le'es Consumers' contributions
(revalued)                 608      706      826      942    1,111     1,276    1,460      1,679    1,020
Beln once                       8800    4.001   0.000   7,J8?    !!222    9.18C         9.880   i2.11O7    14.687
Rate Bease                               .08      5.080    6.698    7.804     6.704    9.438   10.994    18.447
Non-Java Opernttons
Gross fixed assets (revalued)      1,684    2,515    8,259    8,867    5,202    6,502     7,678    9,480    11,409
Lese: Accumulated depreciation       486     662       908    1,192    1,526    1,915     2,877     2,981     8,606
Net Fixed Assets In Operatin o.8L4 1.88  2.852     2.675    8.676             4.587  C.201    6.499    7.804
Les: Consumers' contributions
(rovelued)                 152      187      217      246      205       842       896       45       524
Balance                         1.194   1.04      2.180    2.427    8.381    4.245     4.805    0.043    7.201
Rl* Base                           -    1.420    1.989   2.268   2.004        8.318    4.525    6.424    6.662
/  The rate base Is the average of net fixed assets 'in operation, less revalued consumers' cntributions.



NsMA  ELECEIICATIIW  PIJC-T
PLN - Non-Java .w.prtlgn
Break-Even Revenue Covnant mnitrina Indicators
w~~~~p  billion) 
Actmi  Eattmte                   ~~~~Pulseation
Fiscal yerr                                   a987/81   198/89/  135M   '1990J91  1991/92  192/9a  1991394  1994/96
Revenues
Onperaing revenues                              874      485         n87     780       9      1,116    1,2m    1,658
Net  onoprating incam                          11       (5)        010)     (4)       (4)      (4)      (2)      (1)
Tot l Revenuo                              88       480         2       776       929    1.111    1.324    1.662
Total ft!ratleg Ex _                            687      628        IM0      688       961    1M00     1.24     1.809
Ur 0fmlFc"  lh  rwitlon                        189     IF                            TolWlr   87        4  
Debt Service
Interes  arge  operationm                      20       20         46       02        es      101      182      119
De  repayment                                 109       so         79       92        e        897              116                       0
Total Debt Service                         129       s0         US      154       172      188      229      287
Excse-orf  eBt se0Rie over depreciation           -                             -         -                - -
Revnue reuired for break-en                     587      C20         780     s68       90     1,091    1,24t   1,89
Total revenue us   of reenue  roquire  for
break-even                                     72      69          es       68        97      102      107      113
Oporatlng ratio  )                              144      144         116     1la       1l0       96       94       as
,L Unaudited.



- 97 -                        ANNEX 5-2
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRTFICATION PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
1.       Inflation has been taken into account as follows:
(a) for foreign costs (including indirect foreign costs, excluding
fuels), at 82 p.a., in 1988, 7.22 p.a. in 1989-1990, and 4.4Z tn 1991
and each year thereafter; and
(b)  for local costs (excluding indirect foreign costs and fuels) at 9.9Z
p.a. in 1988, 82 p.a. in 1989, 72 p.a. in 1990 and 52 p.a. in 1991
and each year thereafter.
2.       Separation of accounts of PLN's operations in Java and outside Java
is based on individual accounts maintained by PLN for each of its regional
units. These accounts are separate except for overhead expenses, which, for
the purposes of financial projections, have been allocated proportionately on
the basis of unit sales of energy. In the financial projections, consumers'
contributions havy also been allocated in a similar manner.
3.       Energy sales are based on the sales forecasts that have been agread
for the planning of PLN's system expansion program.
4.       Revenues for FY89/90 are based on an average tariff increase of about
252 that became effect April 1, 1989. For fiscal years thereafter, the tariff
is adjusted annually by 4Z to absorb the impact of increases in operating
costs (other than fuel), and on the rate base assumed in the financial
forecasts. Efficiency gains are assumed to be internalized to improve the
financial performance of PLN so that it can undertake an increasing precentage
of self-financing of its rapidly growing investment program.
5.       Fuellbulk power for FY89190 is based on the budget, and for FY90191
and beyond is derived from PLN's computer siaulation of system operation. The
fuel costs are calculated on the basis of current domestic fuel prices charged
to PLN (200 RpIl of diesel and fuel oil) plus transportation costs. The fuel
prices to PLN are not escalated, on the assumption that any increases during
the forecast period will be passed on to PLN's electricity customers through
its tariff.
6.       Operating expenses, other than fuel and personnel expenses, have been
forecast taking into account the facilities expected to be in use each year,
and subject to foreign and local cost inflation, as appropriate. Personnel
expenses are assumed to increase at an overall rate of 62 p.a. in line with
ezpected productivity gains. Repair and maintenance expenses for PLN's Java
and non-Java operations are estimated at 1.12 and 1.62 of their respective
revalued gross fixed assets in operation duriag the preceding fiscal year.



- 98 -                          ANNEX S-2
Page 2
7.       Doreciation is based on the application of PLN's normal rates
(straight-line method) to assets revalued annually. For purposes of corporate
income tax, the current Indonesian tax code permits the use of the accelerated
method of depreciation of assets in operation instead of the straight-line
method.
8.       Financing.  Terms of foreign borrowings are assumed to be 20 years
including 5 years' grace, at average interest rates of llS p.a. Terms of
local borrowings are assumed to be 12 years including two years' grace, at
interest rates of 18 p.a.
9.       Capital expenditures are based on PLN's investment program
(Annexes 2-5 and 2-6) to meet the projected sales growth (para. 3 above), and
exclude costs of geothermal steam field development, which are assumed to be
incurred by another agency. The 102 Value Added Tax (VAT) on the foreign
contracts is assumed to be borne by Government, and on the local contracts it
is assumed to by borne by PLN.
10.      Gross fixed assets, work in progress and consumers' contributions are
revalued annually, up to FY86/87 according to Government Regulation No.
4511986, date October 2, 1986, and from FY87188 onwards, according to weighted
annual escalation rates (foreign and local). The rate base is the average of
the revalued net fixed assets in operation, less revalued consumers' contribu-
tions. The rate base does not include work in progress.
11.      Customer accounts receivables are assumed at 40 days of energy
revenues.
12.      Transmission and Distribution tT&D) system losses are estimated to be
about 172 in PY89190, and are assumed to decline gradually thereafter to a
level of about 14.37 in FY94195.
13.      Substitution of fuel oil in the existing oil-fired plant at Gresik in
Java by natural gas is assumed to be completed in two phases during
FY90191-FY92193 when gas-based generation is projected to account for about
172 of total energy generation in Java.
14.      for PLN's operations outside Java, implementation of an action plan
to improve the efficiency of those operations (e.g., reduction of T&D system
losses) and to reduce costs, is assumed for the forecast period.
15.      All projections are net of Corporate tax.  Based on the current
Indonesian tax code, PLN does not expect to pay any corporate income tax
during the projection period.



- 99 -                             ANNEX 5-3
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN'e Tariff
Explalmtion of the Tariff Categories
in the Basic Tariffs of Electricity, 1989
Tariff
category      Contracted power             Explanation of tariff category
SI                  to   200 VA         For small consumers (low voltage)
S2           250 VA to   200 kVA        For small to medium social institutions (low
voltage)
S3           201 kVA and over           For large social institutions (medium
voltage)
Rl1          250 VA to   500 VA         For small residential service (low voltage)
R2           501 VA to 2,200 VA         For small residential service (low voltage)
R3         2,201 VA to 6,600 VA         For medium residential service (low voltage)
R4         6,601 VA and over            For large residential service (low voltages
U1           250 VA to 2,200 VA         For small commercial service (low voltage)
U2         2,201 VA to   200 kVA        For medium commercial service (low voltage)
U3           201 kVA and over           For large commercial service (medium voltage)
U4                                      For temporary service (low voltage)
IlhH          250 VA to  99 kVA          For small hotel industry service (low
voltage)
I21H          100 kVA to 200 kVA         For medium hotel industry service (low
voltage)
13/H          201 kVA and over           For large hotel industry service (medium
voltage)
1           450 VA to 13.9 kVA         For smll industrial service (low voltage)
12            14 kVA to 200 kVA         For medium industrial service (low voltage)
13           201 kVA and over           For medium industrial service (medium
voltage)
14         10,000 kVA and over          For large industrial service (high voltage)
GI           250 VA to 200 kVA          For small to medium office service (low
voltage)
G2           201 kVA and over           For large office service (medium voltage)
J                  -                   For street lighting service (low voltage)
Sources PLN Finance Department.



fflidL
Histar, of Tariff Adit.   t1.      1
tml Frrw                      lg AuVrs                         tmora                usoo       tm#          Ave                      trilS
Tariff    Dm areoP  .N                             trl84                                                                  t 1w A6 (ra Dan"
cbenm  chargo  C    chaqp      Chen        rIce    coarw    Chog        price     Chorm      diC epie                carscag                         rc
t AVA)   ftAwm)    Xhi) fm rcAe           f'jwh) X' rWh)  (Rp/kA)  MpX)   ft/k)   (Rp/rA)   (jkW)                     Q4  W)    Ro...)          cRaj6)          pric)
(Rp/hVA)   (R4jkhh)  jIIVA) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YIJ    V'YIAA)m1ob                                                  M %
1         a         _          _          A        _           _                  _         _           a         _0.0                    L              - _w.80
52    1,60        22.00       84.12   im         SS.OO        48.22   2.100     48.80      60.87     2,10       48.80          68.82   2.700            45.00            a1.97
88        -         -          -          -        -          -           -       -         -            -        -             -       S,160         SPIN so            94.92
R1    1,SOO       87.80       46.8i    ,00        86.00       67.21   2,100     70.80      6. 19     2.100      70.80          89.86   8,10   63.80 fo 4 fohr./m.   168.58
66.00 for . GOhr../eo.
R2    i,60m       48.80 5.78   1.600              67.00       79.12   2.100     84.80      90.41     2,100      84.80         100.07   8.160   78.00 for < 0hre.//o.   119.74
)1.5  foi.Ocre./go.
R%    2,600       68.80       66.08   2,800       97.00      121.78   8.680    12.80    186.42       8.680     126.80         189.60  II;,=            185.80           202.96
R4    2,800       79.80       99.B   2.800       17.50       1"7.0   8.68       188.00    184.10     8.680     18.00          18.61   S,S20            1.8              29.91
U1    2,800       6.00        64.67   2.000       99.60      M.04    ,6m        186.00    160.10     8.680     1864.00        A67.87   5.520  166 00 for C lBOire .     209.80
186.00 for % 6 lhr.Ia.
U2    2.800       70.0C       96.17   2,8C0      106.80      1S7.87   sa.1      180.00    189.73    a3.80      1.00           190.92   5.820   186.80 for 4   hr        244.4
149.80 for ), 180h e/so.
US    1.750    WEP   74.00    68.48   1,780   P a 111.00      69.2e   2.800  P a 158.00  128.17      2,800   P a 158.00       118.78   8,460     O    P.4.80            182.07
LWOP  46.80                     GP - 70.00                     OP * 99.0                      OP * 99.0                                OP.109.80
14        -      160.00      168.80       -      221.00      221.0D       -    807.80    807.80          -     807.00         S07.00       -           400.00           400.00
XH    2.80        84.80       611.011- -           -          -                                         -         -            91.48   8,460            67.00          12.48
1.70             E8.a0       44.48       -        -          -- -                         -            -         -              .      ,4,             SS.OD          1.4.818
- -                  -         -          -               -         -            -            -         -            78.44  84.160            94.00          102.88
1.7J0    VIP  49.00    88.3    1,780    P * 81.80           76.66   2.8030  P - 106.00   98.97      2.800    P  97.80         90.6t   S,460            4.00           106.91
UP 1,.0                         OP 6 81.00                     OP * 68.00                     oP  6D0.b0
12    1,780    VW  46.so    46.09   1.750    P - 77.00        67.18   2,800  P - 100.00   68.81      2,800    P *92.80        111.46   8,460          P.188.80         186.92
UWP a29.00                      OP a 48.00                     OP * 62.80                     OP * 7.80                                0PS70.00
L1W            UsP 2  00    80.19   1,600    P * 68.80        56.40   2,1D0    P e 96.80   78.8o     2,100    PJ 90.0          73.28   8,180    ISP134 OD               98.0
WUP- 27.80                      OP - 48.00                     OP a 80.80                     OP * 56.80                               01.805100
14    1,50D    VIP -40.00    84.01   L.0        P * 88.00     44.12   1.970   P * 81.80   61.13      1.970    P * 77.00        89.22   2,96           P0119.80          76.90
qW  * 25.80                     oP - 87.00                     OP - 82.00                     oP * 48.80                               oePw.001
01    2.600       46.00       S2.00   2,800D     n.0          89.06   8.8       96.00    120.861    8.80        96.00         126.n   s82              12.60            it  4
2,Wf  1.500    UP e 46.00    44.10   1.800    P a 72.00       84.08   1.970   P a  .00   84.92       1'm      P * 99.00        67.6s   2.960          P.189so0          1  47
i8P  30 00.0                    OP * 47.00                     OP * 68.00                     OP * 68.00               .               IP79.80,
J        -       41.00       41.00       -      56.80        54.80             76.80     76.80         -       76.80          78.60       -            9s.00          9s.00
AavlU                          ZLU                                                                                                       lam
Tariff S.: 100 to 200 VA * Ii 1.465 to 2,9865/mith
Tariff S:     920V    .2.1  .S~mt
6. 100 to 200 VA * P 2.010 to 4.000Jth
Tariff S: 100 to 200 VA    2 178 to S.480/fnh
Note: UP a P a Pek hore (18:00-2:00)         to                                                                                                                                      a
LUP * OP * 8ff-pa  houre (2:0D-1800)a
reepectIvehy. For 1909. the tariff ca  a ee ensed fro 17 to 21 cato     . A  e  or           n      ie                       tt        i     S     i
and separate tariff ca    lea    ~~ ~Iji   ave be"ensetablisesd for haotl coeuusr s it% law at  olw.me aho mere arewio.Ty gropwe  ith I    Iidere m0 cmmv. at    1
oorreepondinu voitegee C 1, II aiF@ Zn).   he rags _ tor lprice sh-ow  for 1966 relatee to the tariff catlsgie  I n 19r9.
Sor      I Finnce Dart_st.



INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN's Tariff
Average Revenue from Electricity Sold, by Major Consumers
(RplkWh)
Tariff category     1978/79  1979/80  1980181  1981/82  1982183  1983184  1984/85  1985186  1986187  1987/88  1988J89
Residential          29.51     29.55    49.43    49.50    64.09    85.01   102.15   102.59   102.35   102.64    102.45
Comercial            34.98     33.99    63.92    68.45    90.17   123.73   167.66   168.99   167.77   165.77    165.07
Industrial          23.72      23.58    31.77    33.08    42.84    58.15    77.62    75.78    70.84    69.78         69.85
Buildings            27.57     27.40    42.59    43.78    58.17    79.18    91.76    91.98    91.58    92.25         91.18
Lightings            20.10     20.10    33.84    35.18    4X.90    59.56    78.02    77.83    78.17    78.07         80.38
Source:  PLN Finance Deyirtment.



-102 -                              ANNEX 6-1
Page I
INDONESIA
RURAL EL_CTRIFICATION PROJECT
Calculation of sconomic Rate of Return
1.       The internal economic rate of return (IZER) of the proposed project,
i.e. the two-year time slice (1990191-1991192) RE investment, as well as of
the REPELITA V RE investment plan have been calculated based on the following
assumptions. The number of villages to be electrified would be about 4,500
for the proposed project and 11,600 for the five year RE program.
2.       Benefits have been estimated in terms of consumers' willingness-to-
pay (WTP) for electricity. A Bank study entitled" Indonesia--Rural Electri-
fication Riview' (Report 6144-IND of November 1986) concluded that the eco-
nomlc benefits (IWTP) for an average village consumer in Indonesia would be
about Rp 272JkWh including benefits for resiidential, possible comercial and
industrial consumers. The same benefits have been assumed for an average
village consumer for this calculation.
3.       The various cost streams for Investment, operation and maintenance,
administration and general expenses are shown In the table on page 2 and 3 of
thic Anex.  The scahiac cviLs of euergy supply from the national grid and
from the isolated diesel stations were also estimated in the above mentioned
Bank's RE Review on the basis of long-range marginal cost of supply (LRMC)1
an average of Rp 1261kVh for the grid and at Rp 144/kVh for the isolated die-
sel supply. These figures have been used for the energy cost streams. The
costs of operation and maintenance admuiistration and general expenditures
were provided by PLN based on 1Y1988189 results.
4.       Based on the above assumptions, the IERR on the proposed project and
on PLN's Five-Year RE Development Program in the REPELITA V have been esti-
matad at 152 and 121 respectively.



- 103 -                          ANNEX 6-1
Page 2
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
PLN's RE Investment Program, 1990/91 - 1991/92
Invest.    Energy      Energy   Oper. & Adm. and    Total         Total
Year     Cost     Cost Grid   Diesel    Maint.   General       Cost      Benefit
----------------------------- Rp billion -------------------------
1990   486.1807            0    0.972      2.808     4.644   494.6047    53.784
1991   511.2056       78.516    1.728      5.724     9.504   606.6776   170.100
1992     5.8952      109.296    1.728      5.724     9.612   132.2552   238.032
1993    19.6108      114.804    1.728      5.724     9.612   151.4788   249.912
1994     7.2187      120.420    1.728      5.724     9.720   144.8107   262.224
1995     4.451.5    126.468    1.728       5.724    11.232   149.6035   274.968
1996     4.5718      132.732    1.728      5.724    11.340   156.0958   289.008
1997     4.6921      139.212    1.728      5.724    11.340   162.6961   303.156
1998     4.8124      146.232    1.728      5.724    11.448   169.9404   318.276
1999     4.9327      153.576    1.728      5.724    11.448   177.4087   334.152
2000    19.4905      161.136    1.728      5.724    15.444   203.5225   350.568
2001    17.5655      169.020    1.728      5.724    15.444   209.4815   368.064
2002     7.3390      177.444    1.728      5.724    15.444   207.6790   386.064
2003     7.3390      185.328    1.728      5.724    15.444   215.5630   405.432
2004     7.3390      195.264    1.728      5.724    15.444   225.4990   425.520
2005     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2006     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.5;16
2007     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2008     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2009     7.3390      196.776    1.72e      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2010     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2011     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2012     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2013     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2014     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
2015     7.3390      196.776    1.728      5.724    15.444   227.0110   429.516
IERR  152.



Page 3
- 104 -
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
PLN's REPELITA V RE Investment Program
Invest.    Energy      Energy   Oper. & Adm. and    Total         Total
Year     Cost      Cost Grid   Diesel    Maint.   General       Cost      Benefit
----------------------------- Rp billion -----------------------------
1990   462.9605       17.388    1.188      2.700      4.428   488.6645    39.312
1991   486.1807       56.808    2.052      5.508      9.072   559.6207   124.200
1992   511.2056      101.196    2.808      8.316    13.932   637.4576   219.132
1993   429.0325      150.440    3.458    11.448    18.900   613.2805   323.136
1994   441.4247      203.796    3.888    14.472    24.084   687.6647   435.672
1995    10.5874      238.032    3.888    14.472    27.972   294.9514   505.116
1996    10.7077      250.452    3.888    14.472    28.080   302.5947   532.548
1997    10.9483      262.764    3.888    14.472    28.188   320.26C3   559.008
1998    11.1890      275.292    3.888    14.472    28.512   333.3530   586.656
1999    11.3093      290.088    3.888    14.472    28.512   348.2693   615.708
2000    11.5499      304.884    3.888    14.472    38.340   373.1339   646.272
2001    25.6264      320.328    3.888    14.472    38.448   402.7624   678.240
2002    31.5174      336.420    3.888    14.472    38.448   424.7497   711.720
2003    29.5967      353.268    3.888    14.472    38.448   439.6727   746.280
2004    27.7920      371.088    3.888    14.472    38.448   455.6880   784.296
2005     8.5421      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   440.0021   791.640
2006     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2007     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2008     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2009     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2010     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2011     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2012     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2013     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2014     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
2015     5.1734      374.652    3.888    14.472    38.448   436.6334   791.640
IERR = 12Z.



- 105 -                          ANNEX 6-2
INDONESIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Legislation Affecting PLN:  Electricity Act of 1985.
2.   Final Accounts of PLN, 1988/89.
3.   Financial Forecasts (1988/89-1994/95) and Working Papers.
4.   Electricity Basic Tariff, 1989 PLN.
5.   Circular letter No. 013/PST/1987 regarding Report on Rural Electricity,
by PLN's Board, dated October 5, 1987.
6.   The Decree of the Minister of Mines and Energy No. 472K/702/M.PE/1989
establishing an Advisory Team for Electric Power Development in Rural
Areas by Cooperatives.
7.   PLN - Investment Program (1989/90 - 2000/01), October 1989.
8.   PLN - Generation Expansion Program, October 1989.
9.   The Supply and Use of Electricity (Government Regulation No. 10/1989
dated July 29, 1989).
10.   The Manuscript of Cooperation Between PLN and Directorate General of
Cooperatives Business Promotion (Direktorat Jenderal Bina Usaha
Koperasi) signed January 19, 1990.



MAP SECTION



,       )          '\ ,@  ^ % ' PYe~~~~~njung Pinang                         -_,                                                                ;     
-\,TH3AILAND   dv;-;                                                                 i-        .            s    floINDONESIA                                                      SR27
wO^C."   a, (  X                         -               C              o '       '- ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~PHILIPPINES-W      -  PLN  GENERATING  CAPACITIES BY  REGIONS
h   h    h          , ( ,,,;   -,.:,    Sen       E~~~~~~~56  RUNEI,.$X     < W                                                           INS^AEWM W    WALLEDMIW
- </-~~~~MLAS                                                                            NIbo W  )    { 161 7                                                                         KW. 224.1 v "_b^
-  J  11   x A. >N >    \    /                52XM~~~rhALAYSIA   )                                                  /     ''v26                          TOTAL 8225
|   kd  2  tChniSsPon5> \o ~ Cf>, > R<V   __                              .                                        ,91 ,HIfHR  ;. r
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 1                                                                    HA)I   cMAhEIRAR 
ttLili /--tPonhook'   V KALTMANTAN                   IlkmS  rno       E         -<t                      --l      /     <*                    \
CBonkrg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 5@oh1  
Jp d-                                                           UAWA-ecS3     B      Ita^   XlE     
w _> hlS PLYN d LITNTT. a4, Ia                                                                                               r                                                                       L /, .t3g z 
a_Z2alLsIv>cwp Tntiroaswlhdc                                                                                      L  loo 290 J0,0 *LT0 sL!d o0o imTo eVD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L .. .11 1~
nal Gn T =dyd mL_0mW at llarilc = LKT KILMeii
wR.tiTleeSlm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" IL^q P.,
-dwl74rw1vcewao~44
IW'            w                     810T 5                                        120'12JAL1C'TA5 JAWA
~~~ DECEMBFK 191~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR



