Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2655 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 8, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2655 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Allocated Amount" means an amount of the Credit allocated by the 
Borrower to a Participating Province and to be utilized by said Participating Province 
for purposes of carrying out a Maternal and Child Health Program.
(b)
"FLO" means the Foreign Loan Office within the MOPH.
 
(c)
"Maternal and Child Health Program" means one or more programs under 
Parts A, B and/or C of the Project, which satisfies the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and which is to be carried out 
by a Participating Province utilizing the proceeds of an Allocated Amount.
(d)
"Maternal and Child Health Program Implementation Arrangements" means the 
Project Implementation Provisions and the commitment letters provided by the 
Participating Provinces, all in accordance with paragraph C.5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(e)
"MOPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health.
 
(f)
"Participating Province" means a province of the Borrower, selected by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Association on the basis of its high infant and 
maternal mortality rates and low rural per-capita incomes, and to which the Borrower 
proposes to allocate or has allocated an Allocated Amount.
(g)
"Project Coordination Group" means the working group established in MOPH 
to assist in the carrying out of project coordination activities in accordance with 
paragraph A.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(h)
"Project Implementation Provisions" means the provisions for the 
implementation of Maternal and Child Health Programs set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(i)
"Project Leading Group" means the group established in accordance with 
paragraph A.1(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(k)
"Yuan" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-one million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 61,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the  General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2005 and ending October 1, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2014 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the  judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  4
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
Part D of the Project and shall cause the Participating Provinces to carry out Parts 
A, B and C thereof, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, technical and health care practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required therefor, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of said Parts A, B and C by the 
Participating Provinces.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
Page  5
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Participating Provinces shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the Maternal and Child Health Program Implementation 
Arrangements to which it is a party.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Credit 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Participating Province will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Maternal and Child Health Program Implementation Arrangements to which it is a party.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(b)
that at least four Participating Provinces shall have provided their 
written commitment to the Project Implementation Provisions in accordance with 
paragraph C.5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that each of the written 
commitments referred to in Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement has been duly authorized 
by the respective Participating Province and is legally binding upon said 
Participating Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Jiechi Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Equipment,              16,500,000       100% of foreign
      materials and                            expenditures, 100%
      medical vehicles                         of local expendi-
                                               tures (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 40% of
                                               local expenditures
                                               for other items
                                               procured locally
Page  7
(2)   Civil works              3,450,000       30%
(3)   Consultants' services:                   100%
      (a) for operational        680,000
          research studies
          under Part C(3)
          of the Project
      (b) other services       1,560,000
(4)   Training:
      (a) overseas training      520,000       100%
      (b) other training      16,500,000       90%
(5)   Incremental             19,930,000       65%
      recurrent
      expenditures
(6)   Unallocated              2,760,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                   61,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental recurrent expenditures" means medical and other 
supplies, allowances for non-government employees, transportation, accommodation and 
meals required for Project implementation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 5,500,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (3), (4) and (5) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1994.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under (a) contracts for goods 
or works costing less than $300,000 equivalent, (b) contracts for training, regardless 
of the cost thereof, (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent, (d) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000, and (e) incremental recurrent expenditures, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in reducing maternal 
and child morbidity and mortality in the poorest regions of the Borrower's territory 
through (1) improving the quality and effectiveness of maternal and child care 
services, (2) increasing the accessibility, affordability and utilization of such 
services and (3) strengthening the planning, financing and management of such 
services.
Page  8
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Basic Health Care Delivery
 
Development and carrying out, in each of the Participating Provinces, of 
programs designed to improve the quality and effectiveness of maternal and child 
health care services provided at village, township and county levels, including the 
following:
(1)
primary, referral-level and emergency maternal health care programs;
 
(2)
child health care programs, including programs for the management of common 
perinatal problems, acute respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases and childhood 
immunization and nutrition programs;
(3)
programs to control neonatal tetanus, including immunization of reproductive-age 
women against tetanus toxoid;
(4)
health education programs, including promotion of breast-feeding and appropriate 
weaning practices; and
(5)
rehabilitation of facilities and provision of equipment, materials and supplies 
required for the carrying out of the programs referred to in Sections (1) through (4) 
of this Part.
Part B:
Training of Health Workers
 
Development and carrying out, in each of the Participating Provinces, of 
programs designed to strengthen the technical capabilities of staff involved in the 
delivery of maternal and child health care, including the following:
(1)
in-service training programs for health care workers in basic maternal and child 
health care and in clinical care, including in-patient and emergency care;
(2)
reproduction and distribution of clinical protocols prepared under Part D of the 
Project, preparation and provision of instructional and assessment materials; and
(3)
rehabilitation and expansion of training facilities and provision of materials, 
supplies and equipment required for Sections (1) and (2) of this Part.
Part C:
Health Care Management
 
Development and carrying out, in each of the Participating Provinces, of 
programs designed to strengthen institutional capabilities in respect of management of 
maternal and child health care services, consisting of the following:
(1)
health care management training programs in the areas of planning, coordination, 
resource allocation, financial planning and management information systems.
(2)
programs to improve the planning, supervision and monitoring of the delivery of 
maternal and child health care services, including further development of management 
information systems;
(3)
programs of operational research studies in the areas of epidemiology, health 
care services utilization and health financing; and
(4)
construction of administrative facilities and provision of equipment, vehicles 
and materials required for the management of maternal and child health care services.
Part D:
National-level Programs
 
Carrying out, through MOPH, of the following activities:
(1)
coordination, management and supervision of the overall carrying out of the 
Project;
Page  9
(2)
preparation, in consultation with the Participating Provinces, of clinical 
protocols covering preventive and curative care, instructional and assessment 
materials, and development and carrying out of training programs for trainers, all as 
required to facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(3)
assistance to the Participating Provinces in design and implementation of Part C 
of the Project;
(4)
carrying out of a study designed to improve the functional coordination of 
providers of maternal and child health care services throughout the Borrower's 
territory and other studies, as may be warranted, in order to further the objectives 
of the Project;
(5)
preparation of a manual for the management of the Project and appraisal of 
Maternal and Child Health Programs; and
(6)
dissemination of the experiences learned under the Project throughout the 
Borrower's territory.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension.  
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.  With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant  standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the People's Republic of China may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  10
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
1.
Except as provided in Parts C.3 and C.5 hereof, civil works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Shopping
3.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, and works estimated to 
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of $14,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Direct Contracting
4.
Goods which (a) are of a proprietary nature or (b) must be standardized in order 
to be compatible with existing equipment, may, with the Association's prior approval, 
be procured under contracts awarded after direct negotiations with the suppliers 
thereof, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Force Account
5.
Small, scattered works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per 
assignment, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be carried out 
under force account by the use of the personnel and equipment of the Participating 
Province concerned, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such  contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  11
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants:  
(A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to  the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, such consultants shall be employed under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms agreed with the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
 
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project,  the Borrower shall 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation with membership, terms of 
reference and resources acceptable to the Association:
(a)
a Project leading group, chaired by the Minister of MOPH, to be 
responsible for overall direction, coordination and oversight of the carrying out of 
the Project; and
(b)
a Project coordination group, chaired by the Director of FLO, with the 
Director of MOPH's Maternal and Child Health Department as deputy, to be responsible 
for the planning and carrying out of Part D of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall establish not later than January 31, 1995 and thereafter 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation with terms of reference, 
staffing, and other resources acceptable to the Association, a technical unit to 
assist the Project Coordination Group in the carrying out of Part D of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, 
progress in the carrying out of the Project, as well as the impact of the Project on 
maternal and child health in the Participating Provinces.
4.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, through the Project Coordination Group, prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association, the following reports:
(a)
a report on the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by the 
Borrower pursuant to paragraph A.3 above, and by each Participating Province pursuant 
to paragraph B.4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, together with any proposed measures, 
Page  12
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of 
the Project, covering the six months ending December 31 in each year, by the following 
April 1 and the six months ending June 30 in each year, by October 1; and
(b)
a mid-term report on such monitoring and evaluation activities carried 
out by the Borrower and each Participating Province, from the inception of the 
Project, together with any proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project, not later than June 
30, 1997.
5.
The Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on each report furnished 
and measures proposed under paragraph 4 above, and thereafter, take all such measures 
to further the objectives of the Project as shall have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association.
B.
Studies under Part D(4) of the Project
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the study, referred to in Part 
D(4) of the Project, to improve the functional coordination of providers of maternal 
and child health care services, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31, 1995, employ consultants, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
ensure that said study shall be completed and furnished to the 
Association, together with the recommendations based thereon and a time-bound action 
plan for the implementation of said recommendations, not later than March 31, 1996; 
and
(c)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said study, recommendations and action plan, and thereafter, promptly 
carry out said recommendations in accordance with said action plan, taking into 
account the Association's comments thereon. 
2.
With respect to each study (other than the study referred to in paragraph B.1 
above), which the Borrower proposes to carry out under Part D(4) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association for approval a proposal, including 
terms of reference, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, for such study; and
(b)
ensure that such study shall be carried out only in accordance with such 
proposal and under such terms of reference as shall have been approved by the 
Association.
C.
Maternal and Child Health Programs
 
1.
A program referred to in Part A, B or C of the Project to be carried out by a 
Participating Province shall qualify as a Maternal and Child Health Program eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit only if:
(a)
the Participating Province shall have demonstrated to the satisfaction of 
the Borrower, through MOPH, on the basis of an appraisal, carried out in accordance 
with guidelines satisfactory to the Association, that the requirements set out in 
paragraphs C.2-C.5 below have been met; and
(b)
the Association has notified the Borrower and the Participating Province 
of the Association's approval of the proposed program.
2.
The proposed program shall be economically and financially viable, and 
technically feasible, and have been designed in accordance with appropriate public 
health standards and practices.
3.
The Participating Province shall have the organization, management and resources 
required for the proper carrying out of the proposed program, and to this end, has 
established the provincial and county-level project leading groups, technical advisory 
Page  13
groups and project offices in accordance with paragraph B.2 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
4.
The Participating Province shall have prepared a detailed time-bound action plan 
for the implementation of the proposed program.
5.
Upon notification by the Association of its approval of a Maternal and Child 
Health Program under paragraph C.1(b) above, the Borrower shall transmit the Project 
Implementation Provisions to the Participating Province and obtain its written 
commitment.
6.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
cause each Participating Province to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Maternal and Child Health Program Implementation Arrangements to 
which said Participating Province is a party, all of the obligations of said 
Participating Province therein set forth;
(b)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Participating Province to perform such obligations; and
(c)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
7.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Maternal and Child 
Health Program Implementation Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive said Maternal and Child Health Program Implementation Arrangements 
or any provision thereof.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Page  14
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonablyrequest, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  15
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Project Implementation Provisions
A.
Financial Provisions
 
1.
The principal amount of the Allocated Amount which shall be recovered from the 
Participating Province:
(a)
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the 
cost of goods and services for the Maternal and Child Health Program to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)
shall be recovered over a period of not less than 20 years, inclusive of 
a grace period of 5 years; and
(c)
shall accrue interest on the principal amount withdrawn and remaining 
unrecovered from time to time, at a rate less than or equal to one and one-tenth 
percent (1.1%) per annum.
2.
The Participating Province shall make available to each of its counties in which 
the Maternal and Child Health Program will be carried out part of the proceeds of said 
Allocated Amount either:
(a)
on a grant basis; or
 
(b)
on other terms whereby:
 
(i)
the amount so made available which shall be recovered from said 
county shall not 
exceed the equivalent in Yuan (determined on 
the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the 
value 
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the 
cost of goods and services for the part of the Maternal and Child Health 
Program to 
be carried out in said county and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit;
(ii)
the principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a 
period of not less 
than 20 years, inclusive of a grace period of not 
less than 5 years; and
(iii)
interest, if any, shall be charged on the principal amount so made 
available and 
withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time 
to time, at a rate which shall not 
exceed one and one-tenth 
percent (1.1%) per annum.
3.
The Participating Province shall establish and at all times maintain, under 
arrangements and in accordance with a time schedule, both acceptable to the 
Association, a poverty relief fund designed to cover the costs of providing essential 
obstetric and pediatric services to poorest families in the Participating Province and 
Page  16
thereby provide said families access to such services on a fully or partially 
subsidized basis.
4.
The Participating Province shall:
 
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Maternal and Child Health Program of the departments or 
agencies of the Participating Province responsible for carrying out the Maternal and 
Child Health Program or any part thereof;
(b)
have said records and accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
B.
Project Management
 
1.
The Participating Province shall carry out the Maternal and Child Health Program 
with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
financial, administrative, technical and public health practices, and provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor.
2.
(a)
The Participating Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
throughout the period of implementation of the Maternal and Child Health Program, with 
membership and/or staffing (as the case may be), terms of reference and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, the following bodies:
(i)
a provincial project leading group, chaired by a Vice Governor of 
said 
Participating Province, to be responsible for overall 
coordination and oversight of 
the carrying out of the program and for 
liaising with the Project Leading Group;
(ii)
a provincial project office, headed by a director, to be 
responsible for the 
planning and carrying out of said 
program and liaising with the Project 
Coordination Group; 
and
(iii)
a technical advisory group, to provide advice on technical aspects 
of Project 
implementation to such provincial project leading 
group and provincial project 
office.
 
(b)
The Participating Province shall have caused each of its counties in 
which the Maternal and Child Health Program is to be carried out to establish, with 
membership and/or staffing (as the case may be), terms of reference and resources, 
satisfactory to the Association, the following bodies:
(i)
a leading group, chaired by the head or deputy head of the county 
government, to be 
responsible for overall coordination and oversight of 
the activities of said 
program to be carried out within said 
county;
(ii)
a technical leading group to be responsible for coordination of 
the technical 
aspects of said activities; and
 
(iii)
a project office, headed by a project management officer and 
assisted by a training 
officer, to be responsible for the supervision 
of said activities.
Page  17
3.
The Participating Province shall maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Maternal and Child Health Program (including 
the cost and benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods, works and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose their use in the 
Maternal and Child Health Program, and furnish to the Association all such information 
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Maternal and Child Health  
Program, its cost, and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the 
expenditures of the proceeds of the Allocated Amount and the goods, works and services 
financed out of such proceeds.
4.
The Participating Province shall maintain operational procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, progress in the carrying out of the Maternal and Child Health Program, as 
well as the impact thereof on maternal and child health in the Participating Province.
5.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph B.3 above, the Participating 
Province shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to Borrower, the following reports:
(a)
a report on the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by the 
Participating Province pursuant to paragraph B.4 above, together with any proposed 
measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the 
objectives of said Maternal and Child Health Program, covering the six months ending 
December 31 in each year, by the following March 15 and the six months ending June 30 
in each year, by September 15, for consolidation in each report to be furnished to the 
Association by the Borrower (pursuant to the provisions of Part A.4(a) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement); and
(b)
a mid-term report on such monitoring and evaluation activities carried 
out by the Participating Province from the inception of the Project, together with any 
proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further 
the objectives of the Project, not later than April 30, 1997, for consolidation in the 
report to be furnished to the Association by the Borrower (pursuant to paragraph 
B.4(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement).
6.
The Participating Province shall exchange views with the Borrower and the 
Association on each report furnished and measures proposed under paragraph B.5 above, 
and thereafter, take all such measures to further the objectives of the Project as 
shall have been agreed among the Borrower, the Association and the Participating 
Province.
7.
The Participating Province shall prepare and furnish to the Association for 
approval a proposal, including terms of reference, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, for each study which it proposes to carry 
out under the Maternal and Child Health Program, and ensure that each such study shall 
be carried out only in accordance with such proposal and under such terms of reference 
as shall have been approved by the Association.
C.
General Provisions
 
1.
The Participating Province shall:
 
(a)
procure the goods, works and services required for the Maternal and Child 
Health Program to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
insure said goods against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by said Participating 
Province to replace or repair such goods; and
(c)
utilize such goods, works and services exclusively for the purposes of 
carrying out the Maternal and Child Health Program.
2.
The Participating Province shall:
 
Page  18
(a)
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, 
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules 
for the Maternal and Child Health Program, and any material modifications thereof or 
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(b)
enable the Association and the Borrower to examine such goods and all 
facilities, sites and works included in the Maternal and Child Health Program, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
3.
The Participating Province shall:
 
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association 
with regard to the progress of the Maternal and Child Health Program, the performance 
of its obligations under the Maternal and Child Health Program Implementation 
Arrangements and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Maternal and Child Health Program, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Participating 
Province of its obligations under the Maternal and Child Health Program Implementation 
Arrangements.
4.
The Participating Province shall at all times operate and maintain any 
facilities relevant to the Maternal and Child Health Program, and promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
