                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29333

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (CPL-39070 SCL-39076)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$86.5 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                  INDIA

                                                   FOR

                         THE SECOND MADRAS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                            October 27, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2004)

                   Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
                        Re. 1.00 = US$ 0.230415
                       US$ 1.00 = Rs. 43.40

                        FISCAL YEAR
                      April 1     March 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
     Madras All references to the name "Madras" should be understood to read
     "Chennai"

     CMWSSB         Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
     (Metrowater)
     EA             Environmental Assessment
     FY             Fiscal Year
     GIS            Geographical Information System
     GOI            Government of India
     GOTN           Government of Tamil Nadu
     ICB            International Competitive Bidding
     IDI            Institutional Development Impact
     lcd            Liters per capita per day
     McM            Million cubic meter
     Mld            Million liters per day
     NA             Not Available
     NCB            National Competitive Bidding
     NEERI          National Environmental Engineering Research Institute
     O&M            Operations and Maintenance
     SAR            Staff Appraisal Report




                 Vice President:      Mr. Praful C. Patel
              Country Director        Mr. Michael F. Carter
                Sector Manager        Ms. Sonia Hammam
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Mr. Shyamal Sarkar

                                            INDIA
                    SECOND MADRAS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            24
MAP

IBRD No. 26865R (September 2004)

Project ID: P010461                                                  Project Name: MADRAS WATER SUPPLY II
Team Leader: Shyamal Sarkar                                          TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MADRAS WATER SUPPLY II                                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-39070; SCL-39076
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (99%); Irrigation and drainage (1%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Water resource management (P);
                            Other social development (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/20/1989                                     Effective: 12/31/1995                02/14/1996
     Appraisal: 02/06/1995                                         MTR: 09/30/1998                  11/22/1999
      Approval: 06/20/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of India/Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
                      Other Partners:      Government of Tamil Nadu

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Sonia Hammam                                   Robert Panfil
Team Leader at ICR:             Shyamal Sarkar                                 William Roach
ICR Primary Author:             Klas B. Ringskog


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), dated May 26, 1995, lists the original project objectives as:
(a) Provide water to Madras on an urgent basis;
(b) Improve the distribution of water within Madras; and

(c) Strengthen conservation of water through physical means such as leakage detection and repair and the
    introduction of revised water tariffs and other measures.

The Loan Agreement, dated November 20, 1995, states that "the objectives of the Project are to provide urgently
needed water to the city of Madras and introduction of improvements to the distribution and conservation of water
in the area."

Assessment: The original objectives responded to the acute needs of providing more water to the capital Chennai
(Madras) in the drought-prone state of Tamil Nadu. At the time of appraisal, Chennai's population of over 5
million received unreliable and deficient water service a few hours per day. The low per capita supply in the order
of 70 liters was wastefully distributed due to high leakage in the piped network and was unequally distributed in
the absence of metering on domestic connections. The project objectives focused on bringing more water which
was the only realistic way of alleviating water scarcity in the medium-term; on the necessity of distributing
available supplies more efficiently and equitably; and on the imperative of reducing water losses (since the state of
disrepair of the distribution system was such that a 24-hour supply at reasonable water pressure would have caused
almost any amount of supply increase to be lost through leakage).

However, the objectives and the subsequent project design did not address the reliability of the bulk water supply to
Chennai. As a consequence, the proposed solution continued to depend on receiving sufficient monsoon rains.
While the prolonged failure of the monsoons during project implementation could not be readily forseen, it was to
have a severe impact on the water supply situation in the city. Significantly, the project contained no economic
analysis that might have determined whether the selected raw water supply corresponded to the least-cost solution,
nor did it contain an analysis of the safe yield of alternative raw water sources. In addition, the objectives did not
fix explicit goals to improve the financial situation of the water service provider, Chennai Metropolitan Water
Supply and Sewerage Board (Metrowater), nor were there any objectives to enhance Metrowater's institutional
capacity. A better objective might have read: "To move towards a sustainable balance between supply and demand
of water in the city of Chennai while providing continuous service under adequate pressures and ensuring a
cost-effective, sustainable supply of raw water." Such an alternative objective would have forced the Bank to focus
more on how to guarantee sufficient reliable water resources for Chennai, either through the reallocation of water
away from other competing uses such as irrigation, or through developing sources that do not depend on the
success of the monsoon (such as desalination of brackish water or seawater, reuse of treated wastewater).

3.2 Revised Objective:
Within less than six months of Loan Effectiveness the Tamil Nadu government that had negotiated and supported
the project was voted out of office. The incoming government did not favor the project's selected bulk water
scheme, the Veeranam scheme, but preferred an alternative solution, the Krishna scheme, to bring more water to
Chennai. Accordingly, the new government made a formal request, via the Department of Economic Affairs of the
Government of India (GOI), to cancel the part of the Loan amount corresponding to the Veeranam scheme. The
Bank agreed to the request. As a result the objectives were revised and the Loan and Project Agreements were
formally amended and approved by the Board of Executive Directors, on a no objection basis, on March 17, 1997.
The revised objectives, as contained in the Agreement Amending Loan Agreement dated June 12, 1997, were:

"To assist Madras in:
(a) improvements to the sources of supply, treatment, distribution and conservation of water; and
(b) expansion and rehabilitation of the sewage collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal system."

3.3 Original Components:
The original components as described both in the SAR and in the Loan Agreement comprised:

Part A: Veeranam Tank

Carrying out of works to raise the Veeranam embankment by about 0.60 m through excavation of silt from the tank
floor; construction of new embankments and improvements of existing embankments; carrying out of works for
prevention of wave erosion; restoration of existing embankment; construction of a foreshore embankment and


                                                          - 2 -

modifications to weirs and spill-way; lining improvement to Vadavar Channel; minor irrigation works.

Part B: Transmission, Treatment and Resettlement

(i) The construction of raw water intake and pumping station, rehabilitation of existing underground storage and
      construction of additional storage; laying of transmission main from the tank to the treatment plant at
      Vadakkuthu; renovation of old treatment plant with installation of new mechanical and electrical equipment;
      laying of transmission main to Porur including associated facilities; carrying out of small water supply
      schemes for rural communities near the pipeline.
(ii) The resettlement and rehabilitation of persons displaced by the Project so as to ensure the restoration or
      enhancement of their standard of living up to or above levels enjoyed by them prior to the commencement of
      the implementation of the Project.
(iii) Provision of technical assistance for preparation work, supervision of construction for transmission mains and
      related facilities, studies for relocation and rehabilitation of displaced persons.

Part C: Distribution and Conservation

(i) The construction of a terminal reservoir and pumping station at Porur, and improvements to the city
      distribution system.
(ii) Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of distribution zones.
(iii) Carrying out of a program of conservation, including public awareness, leak detection and repairs,
      replacements, strengthening, bulk metering and introduction of domestic metering.
(iv) Carrying out of studies relating to the distribution and conservation of water, and environmental sanitation,
      including the preparation of a future project.

3.4 Revised Components:
After the deletion of the Veeranam scheme (that had constituted about 70% of the original project cost) the
components of the amended project were revised to read:

(i) Construction of a checkdam to improve the source of water supply, and completion of the Redhills Treatment
      Plant.
(ii) Carrying out of a program of strengthening and rehabilitation of water transmission and distribution system in
      Madras.
(iii) Carrying out of a program of water conservation, including public awareness, leak detection and repairs,
      replacements, strengthening, bulk metering and introduction of domestic metering.
(iv) Carrying out of improvements to sewage collection systems, about 16 sewage pumping stations and a sewage
      treatment plant.
(v) Carrying out of studies relating to water supply, sewerage and environmental sanitation, including the
      preparation of a future project.
(vi) Provision of consultants' services for project preparation and implementation management.
(vii)Provision of computer and associated equipment and software.
(viii) Training of Metro Water staff in planning, construction, operations and management of water supply,
      sewerage and environmental sanitation services.

In essence, the revised project deleted the component to bring more treated water, retained the original component
of improving the distribution and conservation of water and added a component of such sewerage works that had
not been completed under the (First) Madras Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2846/Credit 1822-IN).
With the cancellation of the Veeranam scheme there was no longer any resettlement and environmental issues
under the revised Project. The project cost dropped from the original US$421.0 million to US$141.0 million
(including Metrowater overhead costs) and the Bank loan was reduced from the original US$275.8 million to
US$86.5 million.




                                                             - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of appraisal of the project the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist. However,
subsequently QAG assessed the project on two occasions. The first was in 1998 where, as part of a post-approval
assessment of quality-at-entry and quality of supervision, the project was assessed along with another three water
supply and sanitation projects in the South Asia region. The second occasion was in 2002 where the project was
assessed with respect to quality of supervision. The first QAG assessment rated the project Quality at Entry as
unsatisfactory. The reasons for the unsatisfactory QAG rating centered around the fact that the operation did not
emerge from any sector strategy nor was it a part of the least-cost investment program. The main component of
the project (the Veeranam scheme) had long been infamous for being very high cost.

The ICR concurs with the QAG analysis and notes that the project did not consider the sustainability of the
technical solution given its continued dependence on what turned out to be uncertain monsoon rains. A careful
analysis of project risks should have prompted a search for alternative, complementary and more reliable supply
schemes. The deletion of the Veeranam scheme created a mismatch between the revised project objectives (that
retained a reference to improvements to the sources of supply) and the project components that lacked a credible
source of additional water supplies. The Krishna scheme was a reality at the time of restructuring but it too
suffered from problems of intra-basin competing demands and from a dependence on sufficient monsoon rains.
The ICR also notes that the original and revised project failed to include any objectives of improving the
institutional capacity of Metrowater and any plan to improve the financial sustainability of Metrowater.


Because of the noted deficiencies in the project design, the ICR rates the project Quality at Entry as
unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective (a): "To assist Madras in improvements to the sources of supply, treatment, distribution and
conservation of water."

The ICR rates that this objective was achieved although all improvements were not necessarily attributable to the
original project design but more due to other initiatives of the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN), of Metrowater
and to the quality of the Bank's supervision after the restructuring. The potential supply of water was improved as
a result of the following:

(a) the Krishna scheme was completed in September 1996 with the potential of supplying 400 millions liters per
     day (Mld) in the first stage and an additional 530 Mld in the second stage as compared to the 1995 supply of
     360 Mld;
(b) Metrowater started buying raw water from agricultural wells under its program of "hired wells". At present the
     "hired wells" number about 400 out of a total of 6,000 wells in the area and have augmented the supply with
     70 Mld at a cost of only Rs.3/m3. The program constitutes a reallocation of available water resources away
     from irrigation towards an urban use with higher benefits. However, this is currently being done in a way
     which may threaten the long-term sustainability of the aquifer; and
(c) the Veeranam scheme was reinstated in 2002 (following the reelection of the political party that had favored it
     originally) with the potential of adding 180 Mld to the supply provided that the monsoon rains are plentiful.
     The Veeranam scheme has now been built in 18 months with funding from the GOTN and started trial
     operations with small amounts of water in June 2004.

However, these improvements to the potential supply of water to Chennai did not translate into actual
improvements because of the monsoon rains that failed during three consecutive years. It is uncertain whether the
failure signifies a permanent shift in rainfall or whether the monsoon will revert to the pattern of "normal" years.

Second, the treatment of water improved through the completion of the Redhills water treatment plant the bulk of
which the (First) Madras Water Supply and Sewerage Project had financed. The Second Madras Project financed
minor complementary works. In addition, the Second Project financed works to upgrade the oldest plant in



                                                         - 4 -

Chennai, the Kilpauk Water Treatment plant that is strategically located in the heart of the City. In addition, the
project helped improve the water treatment with the introduction of more rational and safer ways of disinfecting
the water. The potential improvement of treated water production did not translate into an actual improvement
because of the failed monsoon rains.

Third, the project has strengthened the distribution of water through the rehabilitation of the network in 11 out of
the city's 16 distribution zones. The project sub-divided the original three distribution zones into 16 zones that
will be possible to operate separately in the future. Regretfully, the distribution investments have not yielded their
full benefits because the three most recent monsoons have failed. While awaiting the outcome of this year's
monsoon Metrowater is distributing water by truck to the population. At the present time, Chennai is only
receiving about 120 Mld, equivalent to about 20 lcd. This constitutes a very low daily supply although the
population supplements it by drawing water from shallow and drilled wells. The self-provided water is of lower
quality but is generally not used for drinking and cooking.

Fourth, the conservation of water has improved potentially through the substantial rehabilitation of the distribution
system in 11 of the 16 distribution zones and renewing 194,000 connections. As a result, it is estimated that the
leakage in the rehabilitated distribution zones will decrease from 40% prior to the rehabilitation to 11%. This
reduction is estimated on the basis of tests since the three years of failed monsoons have prevented Metrowater
from providing a regular piped water supply service.

 Objective (b): "To assist Madras in the expansion and rehabilitation of the sewage collection, conveyance,
treatment and disposal system."

The ICR rates that the second objective was achieved. The sewer network was extended and all the 16 sewage
pumping stations which were started under the (First) Madras Water Supply and Sewerage Project have been
completed with funding from the project and are operational. These resulted in significant improvement to sewage
collection and conveyance. Sewage treatment efficiency was improved at plant at Koyambedu. Metrowater has
outsourced the operations and maintenance of its sewage pumping stations and of its six sewage treatment plants.
The private operators are contracted under three year service contracts and have improved O& M standards. The
Chennai sewerage system is important for at least two reasons. First, the system receives not only the sewage from
the present daily Metrowater supply of about 120 Mld but in addition another 280 Mld that originate from the
self-provision of water. As a consequence, the sewerage system receives a total of 400 Mld as compared to
Metrowater's supply of 120 Mld. About 260 Mld of the sewage flow is treated in the six sewage treatment plants.

While the prolonged drought mitigated the actual impact of achieving the first objective, it is expected that the
benefits of the reductions in unaccounted for water and improvements in distribution, conservation and treatment
would be fully realized with a return to normal monsoons. Considering the fact that the project did achieve its two
objectives in these circumstances, the ICR rates the project outcome as "satisfactory".




                                                        - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
All major project components of the restructured project have been concluded as Table 1 below shows:


                          Table 1 - Comparison of Planned and Executed Project Components
                                       (Costs without Metrowater overhead costs)

                  Component                   Restructured Cost     Share of Total     Actual Cost   Share of
                                                (US$ million)     Restructured Cost   (US$ million) Actual Cost
    Component 1: Improvements to city
    water supply
    Checkdam to improve the source of                8.39               6.7%               5.42        3.9%
    water supply, and completion of the
    Redhills Water Treatment Plant
    Strengthening and rehabilitation of            68.29               54.7%              80.49       58.0%
    water transmission and distribution
    system in Madras
    A program of water conservation,               14.72               11.8%              28.71       20.7%
    including public awareness, leak
    detection and repairs, replacements,
    strengthening, bulk metering and
    introduction of domestic metering
    Improvement of water treatment                    NA                NA                 5.51       4.0%
    quality and refurbishment and
    upgrading of Kilpauk water treatment
    plant
    Component 2: Improvements to city
    sewerage system
    Improvements to sewage collection              11.30                9.0%               9.11       6.6%
    systems, about 16 sewage pumping
    stations and a sewage treatment plant
    Component 3: Technical Assistance
    Studies relating to water supply,                3.81               3.0%               3.29       2.4%
    sewerage and environmental
    sanitation, including the preparation
    of a future project
    Provision of computer and associated     Included in above    Included in above        0.51       0.4%
    equipment and software
    Training of staff in planning,                   0.10               0.1%               0.04       0.0%
    construction, operations and
    management of water supply,
    sewerage and environmental
    sanitation services
    Consultants' services for aquifer study           NA                NA                 5.60       4.0%
    and twining arrangements
    Physical contingencies                           8.82               7.0%                -            -
    Price contingencies                              9.61               7.7%                -            -
    Total restructured project                    125.04             100.0%             138.68      100.0%

Table 1 indicates that the restructured project was implemented fairly closely to what had been planned. Total
actual costs were US$138.68 million or 111% of the estimated cost of US$125.0 million. The proportions of the



                                                       - 6 -

actual project expenditure approached the estimated proportions with the exception of the water conservation
program where the rehabilitation of the seriously deteriorated network received a higher share of the funding.
Another important study that was initiated as part of the Project was one of the Araniar-Koratalaiyar aquifer which
was believed to offer a major alternative source of low-cost water. The study has proceeded very slowly, in part due
to lack of commitment from Metrowater. Initial results suggest that the aquifer can constitute a major source of
water for the city, although there remains uncertainty about the total amount of water which can be made available.
And the critical institutional part of the study (which addresses mechanisms for water transfer and for aquifer
sustainability) has not yet been completed.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic rate-of-return has been calculated because none was calculated at appraisal for the components that
were retained in the restructured project. Even so, a special effort has been made to calculate the cost effectiveness
of a few of the most significant investment items. The first is a comparison of the investment costs for water
treatment where three investment costs can be compared: those for the Project's financed refurbishment and
upgrading of the existing Kilpauk treatment plant; those of the Redhills treatment plant that was financed under
the World Bank's (First) Madras Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2846-IN/Credit 1822-IN); and those
of the ongoing Chembarambakkam water treatment plant that is being financed by a French bilateral (and tied)
credit of FF 41.2 million and by domestic credit. Table 2 below compares the investment costs and their respective
cost effectiveness, expressed as the investment cost per cubic meter per second of treatment capacity.

     Table 2 ­ Comparison of Cost Effectiveness of Three Water Treatment Plants Serving the City of Chennai

  Water Treatment            Estimated           Estimated          Treatment       Treatment        Investment Cost /
       Plant at           Investment Cost    Investment Cost Capacity in Mld        Capacity in     Treatment Capacity,
                            (Rs million)       (US$ million)                        m3 per sec      US$ million/m3 per
                                                                                                             sec
Kilpauk                        230                   5.1                 270             3.1                 1.6
(Refurbishment and
upgrading)
Redhills                       360                   8.0                 300             3.5                 2.3
Chembarambakkam              2000                  44.4                  530             6.1                 7.3

The table shows that the refurbishment and upgrading of the old plant at Kilpauk that is now underway (that had
been procured with International Competitive Bidding) with financing under the Second Madras Project is quite
economical: per volume of treatment capacity. It is expected to cost about 70% of what the Redhills treatment
plant cost and about 22% of what the Chembarambakkam treatment plant (that had been procured with French tied
aid bidding) is expected to cost. The conclusion is that the procurement, design and implementation of at least this
subcomponent under the Second Madras Water Supply Project has been cost effective.

Another subcomponent of the Project for which it is possible to make a simplified cost/benefit analysis is the
rehabilitation of the water supply network where the objective has been to reduce the very high losses. Tests show
that the percentage of losses was reduced from a level of 40% without the network rehabilitation to a level of 11%
with the rehabilitation. The tests were done with continuous water service and water pressure of 10 m, conditions
that will only be possible at a future date when plentiful monsoon rains enable the system to be operated as
designed. Assuming that at such a future date the supply per connection will be 1050 liters per day (corresponding
to an average of 15 persons consuming 70 liters per day (or three and a half times the present restricted
consumption rate) the water saved through the rehabilitation would be 1050*(0.40-0.11)~300 liters per connection
per day. The annual value of the saved water (assuming conditions of water scarcity) would be Rs. 0.3*365*70
(where Rs. 70 is the tariff per cubic meter that consumers have demonstrated that they are now willing to pay for
the supply of Metrowater from tanker trucks). The annual saving is then about Rs. 7,700 and the capitalized
benefit would then be about Rs. 77,000 assuming a long period of scarcity and an annual discount rate of 10% in
constant prices. This benefit could be compared to the average rehabilitation cost that amounted to about Rs. 3,700
per connection (allocating the entire cost of the Water conservation investment over the 326,000 connections that
exist in Chennai). The resulting benefit/cost ratio is then 77,000/3,700, or about 21. The approximate calculation



                                                         - 7 -

attests to the high socio-economic and financial returns of leak detection programs under conditions of acute water
scarcity.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate-of-return has been calculated because none was calculated at appraisal. Further, the financial
indicators calculated at appraisal were not reestimated for the restructured project when both the projected costs
and revenues significantly reduced with the deletion of Veeranam Tank component. Therefore, a comparative
analysis of the financial indicators as projected and as at the end project has not been made. However, at the end
of project, the average collection ratio has actually risen somewhat to 81% and the Metrowater working ratio has
been fairly constant around 0.65, i.e. Metrowater is able to cover its cash operating and maintenance costs and
generate a surplus for debt service and other investments.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Institutional Development Impact (IDI) measures the extent to which the project has improved Metrowater's
ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. Neither the original project, nor the restructured
project contained an explicit objective to strengthen Metrowater. However, there was some limited funding
provided in the restructured project to train Metrowater staff. In the event slightly more funding was provided to
train staff but even so the ICR notes that the project should have spent more on institutional development to
prepare Metrowater for the challenge of operating and maintaining the assets financed under the first and second
Bank projects. The need for training staff is arguable since Metrowater has had a hiring freeze since 1987 in order
to reduce its number of staff. The freeze has prevented Metrowater from attracting better educated and trained
staff to plan, operate and maintain the more complicated facilities financed under the two Bank projects. In spite
of this difficulty Metrowater and Bank supervision staff rectified to a considerable degree the oversight in the
original project design. First, an agreement was reached to create a twinning arrangement under which more
experienced staff from an internationally renowned utility group would help Metrowater staff implement the
project and prepare for the operation and maintenance. The twinning contract was competitively bid and awarded
to the French utility group, Générale des Eaux (GdE). The three year twinning arrangement began in 2001 and
has proved valuable, particularly to advise on implementation of the elements included in the project to improve
operational efficiency and to prepare for operating and maintaining the system once raw water supplies will permit
continuous service. Second, Metrowater has engaged in a vigorous program of contracting with private firms the
operation and maintenance of a number of areas of operations and maintenance, such as those related to the
Redhills water treatment plant, 81 of the 173 sewage pumping stations and all the six sewage treatment plants, and
administrative functions such as janitorial and transport services. At the present time a total of 1,785 staff are
employed under such services contracts with generally positive experience. The total number of outsourced staff
corresponds to about one quarter of the number of regular staff. The number of regular staff has been successively
reduced from a peak of 7,600 employees in 1990 to 4,900 at the present time. As a consequence, staff productivity
has risen from 40 staff per thousand water supply connections in 1996 to 15 in early 2004. Third, Metrowater has
recognized the importance of improving its database and has financed the creation of a Geographic Information
System (GIS) to map its assets and make possible more efficient operations and maintenance. Fourth, most
administrative systems including financial forecast, accounting, billing and collection, have now been
computerized and have resulted in higher staff productivity and better quality of service. Because of the leveraging
of fewer staff with those from private sub-contractors and because incorporation of modern software systems there
is little doubt that Metrowater staff have become more productive and able to provide better services to consumers.
The extent of outsourcing and computerization is so large and wide that the ICR rates the institutional
development impact of the project as "substantial".

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The overarching factor affecting the actual achievement of one of the implied project objectives ­ that of improving
water supply services in Chennai - has been the insufficiency of raw water. The bad run of three successive years
of failed or weak monsoon rains has clearly been outside the control of the government and of Metrowater. The
supply of surface water has dropped from about 420 Mld in 1999 to 50 Mld in 2004 with a serious negative impact




                                                         - 8 -

on the quality of service. The lack of resources has obliged Metrowater to practically suspend piped water service
during the driest months of the year. In May 2004 a total of 11,000 contracted tanker truck trips daily to distribute
available potable water on an equitable basis. It is a tribute to Metrowater that it has been able to organize such a
large emergency distribution program and that it has done so with the help of private truckers. It is important to
recognize that this has been done without sufficient consideration being given to developing permanent
arrangements for water transfer, and without any focus on the long-term sustainability of the aquifer.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The most pressing issue for the state and national governments to act on is that of water resource management. In
particular, there is the need to adopt and institute a modern legislation of water resources management where water
can move freely towards its highest socio-economical value use. Some headway has been made during the course
of the project. The first is the de facto adoption of ad hoc transfers from agricultural wells to supplement the
surface water supply to Chennai. The second potential advance is the agreement between the states of Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu that would allow Chennai to receive the 930 Mld from the
Krishna river to operate the Chembarambakkam and Redhills treatment plants. The de facto difficulties to apply
this agreement between the states stem from the fact that the Krishna river originates in Maharashtra, receives
additional water in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, and then through the Telugu-Ganga canal reaches Tamil
Nadu. Competing demands on the Krishna waters from agriculture and cities in the former three states make it
uncertain how much water Tamil Nadu will receive in the end excluding the years of abundant monsoon rains.
The discrepancy between the agreed and the de facto allocation of raw water from Krishna can be explained largely
by the failed monsoon that has also reduced the Krishna flow and made the upstream states jealous of first of all
appropriating the diminished flows for their own uses. The challenge of shifting water from agricultural uses in
favor of Chennai city becomes greater when users in different states are competing for the diminished water flows.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency, Metrowater, performed well.                No loan covenants were breached.              Project
implementation was fairly close to what had been planned and the 21-month extension of the Bank loan closing
date was explained by an agreement with the Bank not to add to the supply difficulties caused by the failed
monsoon rains rather than by the necessity to allow more time because project implementation had been unduly
slow.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The costs and financing of the project are detailed in Annex 2. The cumulative project costs were Rs. 6,100
million (US$138.68 million) of which the Bank financed Rs. 3,600 million (US$81.6 million) with the remainder
(Rs. 2,500 million or US$57.08 million) financed by the Metrowater internal cash generation and by a grant from
the GOTN. When an overhead of 18% is included the total project investment rises to US$163.6 million of which
the World Bank financed US$81.6 million (49.9%), Metrowater US$65.6 million (40.0%) and the GOTN US$16.4
million (10.1%). There were some cost savings as compared to the original estimate. The US$ was stronger than
expected against the Indian Rupee during most of the project implementation period and the Bank dollar financing
proved equivalent to a higher Rupee amount. As a result of the cost savings and slower-than-expected progress on
some contracts, about US$4.9 million of the Bank loan amount will be canceled.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project investments is rated on the basis of their ability to withstand risks of different types
that would reduce the future level of expected net benefits. The most significant of these risks include technical,
financial, institutional and political risks. These risks have been overshadowed by the highly abnormal rainfall
pattern with three consecutive failed monsoons in the catchment areas of Chennai to which the ICR has referred to
repeatedly.    The major uncertainty is whether the rainfall pattern in the catchment areas have changed
permanently for the worse, or whether the three year failure is an extraordinary aberration. The ICR considers that
the failed monsoon rains are indeed an extraordinary event that the project could not have foreseen. Accordingly,



                                                         - 9 -

for the rating of the project's sustainability the ICR analyzes whether the project has helped reduce the risks
affecting the level of net benefits assuming a return to a more normal rainfall pattern. First, as for technical risks,
Metrowater and the Chennai population have been able to overcome the rainfall shortage through alternative
distribution methods. The population is drawing water from the shallow aquifer in Chennai and is using this
untreated water for such purposes that do not require treated water. Metrowater for its part has mounted a large
operation of distribution of available supplies of its treated water with tanker trucks. On average during the driest
months a total of some 11,000 tanker trucks deliveries are made to supply the population with treated water
through 12,000 individual water points. Through these two programs the population is receiving acceptable
service and it can be concluded that the technical resilience is confirmed while awaiting the return of more normal
rainfall. Second, the financial resilience also seems confirmed. The Chennai population has continued to pay for
water supply and sewerage service in spite of the lower standards of service made possible by the tanker trucks. In
so doing the political resilience against the risk that the population might refuse to continue paying for service
would seem to have been defused. The average collection ratio has actually risen. Metrowater is able to cover its
cash operating and maintenance costs and generate a surplus for debt service and other investments. The financial
situation will have to be carefully monitored following the recent national elections that led to a change of
government. A number of states in India, including Tamil Nadu, have rolled back utility tariffs but so far the
water supply and sewerage tariff in Chennai has been unchanged. It is possible that the fiscal situation of the state
of Tamil Nadu will deteriorate if utility tariff reductions become more widespread and larger. The institutional
resilience is assured as shown by the "substantial" rating for the IDI. Concluding on the basis of analysis of the
major risks that could affect the project's net benefits and assuming a return to more normal monsoon rains, the
sustainability of the project is rated as "likely".


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no special transition arrangements necessary. Metrowater has already commissioned the physical works
that have been concluded. A possible question mark is the operation and maintenance of the Kilpauk water
treatment plant where no program has been launched to prepare for operation and maintenance of the refurbished
treatment plant which will have higher range of instrument control in operation, now expected to start in late 2004.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation is rated as "unsatisfactory". Section 3.5 has provided the reasons for rating
the quality-at-entry "unsatisfactory". The Bank does not seem to have analyzed the possible risks affecting the
project. The project preparation period was excessive with a total of six years between initial identification and
Board presentation. During this period the second Bank water supply and sewerage project changed shape a
number of times which to a large degree explains why project preparation took so long. What started out as a
comprehensive but excessively complex environmental project eventually became an excessively limited but
unreliable water supply project. The fact that the Veeranam Tank component was deleted from the project within
less than six months of project effectiveness is proof that due diligence had not been done for this component that
comprised 70% of total project costs. Arguably, the Veeranam scheme was not the least cost solution to improve
the water supply in Chennai. Its cost of Rs. 7,200 million (US$160 million) implies that the investment cost per
cubic meter per second of (maximum and continuous) production capacity is close to US$80 million. To this
already high investment cost should be added operating costs to bring the water to Chennai over a distance of more
than 200 km and to treat the water which makes the Veeranam scheme even less attractive. Finally, there is no
guarantee that there will be sufficient water from Veeranam in case the monsoon rains fail and in case the
competing agricultural uses prove politically stronger.        The Bank should as a minimum have provided an
exhaustive least cost analysis of alternative schemes and methods to supply more water to Chennai in a sustainable
fashion. In total, the Bank expended US$769,700 for project preparation, corresponding to 0.2% of the appraised
project cost.


7.2 Supervision:




                                                         - 10 -

The "unsatisfactory" Bank performance during lending was compensated for by Bank supervision that is rated
"satisfactory". A total of 16 Bank supervision missions were made (see Annex 4). The number of five task
managers during the eight years of supervision must be rated as excessive, however. The Bank's effort to rapidly
restructure the project after Veeranam's cancellation was commendable as was the addition of a twining
arrangement with a foreign utility, the addition of chlorination equipment and the cost-effective rehabilitation of
the Kilpauk water treatment plant. Procurement followed Bank procurement safeguards and there was no instance
of misprocurement. (Annex 2 provides further details on project procurement). Finally, the financial management
safeguards were adequately supervised. In total, the Bank expended US$624,800 for project supervision, or 0.5%
of the actual project cost.

QAG assessed quality of supervision twice. The first was in 1998 when post-approval quality-at-entry/quality of
supervision was assessed. Subsequently in the year 2002, QAG assessed yet again the quality of supervision. On
both occasions QAG rated the quality of supervision as "satisfactory" applying the customary QAG criteria.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as "satisfactory". The "unsatisfactory" performance during lending was offset
by the supervision that is rated at least as "satisfactory".

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as "marginally satisfactory" because of the introduction of the
uneconomical Veeranam scheme.             It could be argued that the Borrower performance should be rated
"unsatisfactory" (just as the Bank's performance during preparation is rated "unsatisfactory") but the client support
and inclusion of the Veeranam scheme could also be explained by the desire of the GOTN to rely on a bulk water
scheme where the water resources were all within the state of Tamil Nadu. In other words, the GOTN seems to
have considered the higher costs of the Veeranam scheme as the price for a bulk water scheme that did not depend
on collaboration from the governments of the neighboring states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka that controlled
the headwaters of the Krishna river. However, this "independence" came at a high cost and proved elusive in the
end since the Veeranam scheme also proved susceptible to the risks of failed monsoon rains.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation performance is rated "satisfactory" although there was no tariff increase for
domestic customers allowed for Metrowater since 1997 in spite of repeated Bank requests.                 However, the
government might have felt that the water scarcity in Chennai was such that a tariff increase would have been
politically difficult. In addition, the government might have felt that it was not obliged to raise tariffs since it was
complying with the financial covenant. The latter was a "cash generation" covenant that held Metrowater liable to
generate a share of project investments rather than of total investments. Once the project investments had been
sharply reduced due to the exclusion of the Veeranam scheme this "cash generation" covenant became largely
ineffective as a legal tool to argue that there was a need for tariff increases.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency, Metrowater, is rated as "satisfactory". Procurement proved to be
slow on part of Metrowater but otherwise the agency performed well in the face of a difficult situation. Metrowater
produced its quarterly progress reports on time that, among other things, tracked and evaluated the agreed
monitoring indicators. Duly audited financial statements were submitted on time.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On the basis of the above the Borrower performance is rated as "satisfactory". The "marginally satisfactory"
performance of primarily the GOTN during preparation is compensated by the satisfactory rating during
implementation.


8. Lessons Learned




                                                          - 11 -

The project offers four lessons for possible follow-up projects in Chennai, in other cities in India or elsewhere:

Lesson One: Water supply and sewerage services in Chennai are unusually complex and prone to risks. For this
reason project risks should have been carefully analyzed during preparation. However, this was not done and the
full potential project benefits from the project investments have not been realized since the supply risk was not
properly assessed and since full mitigation was not provided. The lesson is that future projects must be preceded
by a risk analysis that would focus much more on the risks that sufficient raw water might not be available. In
turn, an appropriate analysis of these supply risks must put greater emphasis on the broader issues of water
resources management and on identifying the least-cost sequence of developing different supply schemes including
consideration to a low-cost supply for providing base load and a higher-cost supply which can be mobilized when
"Peak Demand" needs to be met.

Lesson Two: The scarcity of water at the point of house connections should not have obscured the fact that there
might be other limiting factors in the chain of supply/transmission/treatment/distribution/connection to bring more
water to the consumer. An analysis should be done to track the effective capacity of each component in the
supply/distribution chain in order to identify any looming bottlenecks and then remove them. As a result of the
failure to undertake such an analysis by system component capacity Chennai seems to have over-invested in
treatment capacity and underinvested in the distribution system and in metering.

Lesson Three: The three-year drought in Chennai has made great demands on the service provider just to provide
some measure of potable water service to the population. The urgent needs have been met but should not obscure
the fact that Metrowater will now have to prepare for the day when the monsoon rains and the raw water supply
return to normal. Metrowater has resolved the urgent and medium-term demands by relying on a large number of
private sub-contractors to operate and maintain many of the facilities. This reliance on private sub-contractors
demands much of Metrowater's ability to supervise not only the cost of outsourced services but also of the quality
provided by the sub-contractors. It would be prudent to invest more in training Metrowater staff in monitoring and
controlling its private sub-contractors, particularly with respect to the proper maintenance of the outsourced
facilities.

Lesson Four: The design and application of appropriate tariff policies proved particularly contentious during
project implementation.      In essence, the financial viability of Metrowater depends excessively on the large
cross-subsidies from its commercial and industrial customers, on the population's continued acceptance of paying a
flat rate for all domestic consumption, and on the continuation of receiving a portion of the task revenue that is
related to the rateable value of all assessed properties. Domestic consumers paid water consumption charges, on an
average, of Rs. 5 per cubic meter supplied (or assumed to be supplied since domestic metering is unmetered) and
industrial and commercial consumers paid tariffs equivalent to Rs. 56 per cubic meter (the bulk of which is
metered) in 2003-04. As a result, out of total revenue in the year 2003-04 domestic consumers accounted for 12%
of total revenue, industrial and commercial consumers for 62%, and a water tax for 26%. This over-dependence on
industrial and commercial consumers is risky. With the conclusion of a number of surface water schemes and an
expected return to more normal monsoon rains such a tariff structure must be re-examined and modified. In
particular, Metrowater would be well advised to prepare for the introduction of metering for domestic consumers.
Up till now it has had the excuse that the severe water supply deficit has made continuous piped water supply
impossible. In the future, the objective should be to provide continuous service that will likely only be possible
with metering. It might be possible to design a program of gradual introduction of metering (which will entail
higher payments for many domestic consumers) in such a manner that metering will be introduced in parallel to
the return of continuous water service to Chennai. The introduction of metering can only be successful if the
technical, financial, administrative and political challenges to effective metering are overcome.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A copy of the draft ICR was sent to the Secretary to the GOTN, Municipal Administration and Water Supply
Department with copy to the Government of India Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Urban
Development and Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board for review and comments by the
Borrower and implementing agency on August 10, 2004. A response was received from the GOTN with letter
dated September 2, 2004 commenting on some of the paragraphs of the draft ICR, as follows:



                                                         - 12 -

Para 3.1: Under the Para "Assessment", it is mentioned that the low per capita supply in the order of 70 liters was
wastefully distributed due to high leakage. In our opinion, a more appropriate wording might be that the low per
capita supply further suffered due to high leakage in the piped network.

Para 3.1: The raw water sources selected was not based on economic analysis for the least cost solution but on
nearest source availability. The sources within the state which had about 97% reliability was preferred. In our
view, the "better objective" suggested in the ICR might not have still resulted in any better scheme especially when
we are now finding that the additional source available from A.K. aquifer studies for reallocation is not substantial
(only 70 Million cubic meter ­ McM, against the requirement of 100 McM).

Para 3.2: Regarding the reliability of Krishna Water Scheme we wish to state that reliability assessment in the
year 1994 was about 97% based on simulation studies and the scheme brought water for Chennai from 1996
continuously till 2003 (i.e.) for 7 years. It was not possible at that time to predict failures of successive monsoons
given the data of high reliability in the proceeding years.

Para 3.5: The metering program was included in the water conservation component, mainly to avoid wastage of
water and to improve the financial sustainability of Metrowater.

Para 4.1: The Veeranam scheme was reinstated in 2002 and had been built with partial funding with GOTN and
balance funding by Metrowater by loans from financial institutions and commercial bank besides issuing tax free
municipal bonds. Chennai is at present being supplied with 150 Mld (not 120 Mld) equivalent to about 25 lcd.
Consequently, the sewerage system receives a total of 400 Mld (150 Mld + 250 Mld of self provision water).

Para 4.1: The slow progress of A.K. aquifer study was mainly due to changes in the ownership of the company
which was beyond the control of Metrowater and also due to other internal problems.

Para 4.3: The capital cost of Chembarambakkam Water Treatment Plant had been taken as Rs. 2,000 million
which may be corrected as Rs.1,350 millions or (US$31.1 million) and correspondingly revised investment cost per
treatment capacity would be only US$5.10 per cum / sec. We may also mention that it may not be appropriate if
comparison is made between the new plants and the refurbished plant.

Para 4.5: The staff productivity has risen from 40 to 8 in 2004. Employees / 1000 (Water and Sewer) connections
is 8 (2004).

Para 5.1: Metrowater was utilizing about 12,500 Tanker trips daily in July 2004. The A.K. aquifer study taken up
in this project is meant to take care of developing permanent arrangements for water transfer.

Para 6.1: Metrowater and GOTN will ensure that steps to revise the tariff and appropriate measures are taken at
the right time to enhance and sustain Metrowater's financial sustainability.

Para 6.2: Metrowater engineers are fully trained to take up Operation and Maintenance of the Kilpauk Water
Treatment Plant.

Para 7.1: The Veeranam Scheme was selected not based on economic analysis for the least cost solution, but on
the nearest source availability which has 95% reliability (based on studies) and availability within the State and not
interstate. This source is also dependant on two monsoon periods i.e. Southwest and Northeast monsoons. Also
there is no other comparable source any where nearby. Prior to formulation of Second Chennai Project, it was
proposed to tap 180 Mld from Palar river basin near by, but on detailed study it was found that the potential is
being presently used for neighboring townships as well as for the Madras Atomic Power Project at Kalpakkam.
Hence this scheme had to be given up as not sustainable. In the case of the Veeranam lake, in years of normal rain
fall, the lake receives supply from Kollidam river, in addition to supply from its own catchment area and gets filled
about 11 times a year and this scheme was therefore considered as more reliable than the "Palar Scheme".




                                                        - 13 -

Para 7.5: One of the financial covenants to be achieved by Metrowater is, achievement of 17.2% share of project
cost from its own cash generation. In fact, cash generation has been achieved in excess of this target to meet the
other capital investments very nearly at the same levels as for this project.

Para 7.6: The procurement performance of Metrowater might have been slow only for a few components like A.K.
aquifer consultancy, due to a combination of reasons including the necessity to adhere to the guidelines of the
World Bank.

Para 8: Metrowater desires to clarify that there is hardly any scheme in Chennai / Tamil Nadu which would have
satisfied both the "Supply risk" and "Least cost" criteria. A few years of continuous monsoon failures, that are a
total departure from the past 54 years and more in the history of Chennai may not be the basis for such
conclusions.

Lesson 2: The investment made by Metrowater in treatment capacity is not "over investment" but only a needy
investment to cater to the future water requirements in years of normal rainfall.

Annex-1: The following corrections in the Key Performance Indicators / Log Frame Matrix are suggested:

Percentage of population covered             : 96% (2004)
Water supply made per day                    : 150 Mld (2004)
Employees / 1000 (Water and Sewer) connections is 8 (2004).

(b) Cofinanciers:
There was no cofinacier and hence there are no comments.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Nil.

10. Additional Information

Nil.




                                                       - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

  The project included the obligation of Metrowater monitor quarterly 46 indicators of project implementation
  and operations. This number is too large to permit focused analysis and the monitoring and reporting seems to
  have been formal in nature. The fact that neither the SAR, nor the Loan Agreements fixed any targets and
  benchmarks seems to have reduced the impact of the monitoring indicators and their trends and levels. The
  amended monitoring indicators below represent those that relate to the coverage and quality of services, to
  their efficiency and to the financial, institutional and environmental sustainability of operations.

                        Year                                  1996/97                         2004
  Service Coverage and Quality
 Water connections                                      200,000                326,000
 Percentage of Population Connected                     70% (estimated)        80%
 Water supply, million liters per day                   450 Mld                120 Mld (*)
 Percentage of population with sewerage                 Not available (NA)     90%
 Hours of water distribution service/day                0-3 hours              0-3 hours. However, in the critical
                                                                               month of May 2004 (prior to the
                                                                               expected start of the summer
                                                                               monsoon) there was no piped
                                                                               supply but the city depended on
                                                                               tanker   supplies    and shallow
                                                                               ground water entirely.
 Bacteriological quality of treated water               Safe                   Safe

 Service Efficiency
 Employees/thousand water connections                   40                     15

 Service Sustainability
 Working ratio (Cash operating costs/cash               0.66                   0.64
 operating revenue)
  Share of collected wastewater treated in              NA                     100%
  wastewater treatment plants


  (*) Water supply is severely reduced by the failure of water sources by three consecutive years of drought.




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate        Estimate           Appraisal
                       Component                                 US$ million     US$ million
Component 1: Improvements to city water supply                      91.40            120.13             131.43
Component 2: Improvements to city sewerage system                   11.30               9.11              80.62
Component 3: Technical Assistance                                    3.91               9.44            241.43

Total Baseline Cost                                                106.61            138.68
 Physical Contingencies                                              8.82
 Price Contingencies                                                 9.61
                          Total Project Costs                      125.04            138.68
                   Total Financing Required                        125.04            138.68
Project components and appraisal estimates indicated in the table above are of the restructured project.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB                NCB                   2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                            82.40              23.26             0.00            0.03           105.69
                                   (53.40)            (15.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (68.40)
2. Goods                             3.25               3.00             0.00            0.00            6.25
                                    (2.60)             (2.40)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (5.00)
3. Services                          0.00               0.00            13.00            0.00            13.00
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (13.00)         (0.00)          (13.00)
4. Training                          0.00               0.00             0.10            0.00            0.10
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.10)          (0.00)           (0.10)
   Total                            85.65              26.26            13.10            0.03           125.04
                                   (56.00)            (17.40)           (13.10)         (0.00)          (86.50)
The estimates indicated in the above table are for the restructured project.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB                NCB                   2        N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                            80.22              28.72             0.00           16.08          125.02
                                   (51.34)            (19.42)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (70.76)
2. Goods                             2.06               2.37             0.00           0.00            4.43
                                    (0.50)             (1.95)           (0.00)         (0.00)           (2.45)
3. Services                          0.00               0.00             9.19           0.00            9.19
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (8.35)         (0.00)           (8.35)
4. Training                          0.00               0.00             0.04           0.00            0.04
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.04)         (0.00)           (0.04)
   Total                            82.28              31.09             9.23           16.08          138.68
                                   (51.84)            (21.37)           (8.39)         (0.00)          (81.60)



                                                    - 16 -

  Project costs included the works/services which were in-progress at loan closing.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component 1:                  72.80        34.30         0.00       66.22         53.91      0.00       91.0     157.2      0.0
Improvements to city water
supply
Component 2:                   9.00         4.24         0.00        7.03         2.08       0.00       78.1      49.1      0.0
Improvements to city
sewerage system
Component 3: Technical         4.70         0.00         0.00        8.35         1.09       0.00       177.7     0.0       0.0
Assistance

  Project components and appraisal estimates indicated in the table above are of the restructured project.




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Economic Analysis that was performed at appraisal was focussed on the provision of 180 Mld of
additional water to be brought to the city from Veeranam Tank. This component of the project was
dropped, and the project was restructured. However, no economic analysis was carried out for the
components that were retained in the restructured project when the project was amended.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/10/1990                3    ENG. (1); SAN. ENG. (1); FIN.
                                             ANALYSIS (1)
              05/11/1994                6    TASK TEAM LEADER - TTL
                                             (1); FIN. ANALYSIS (1); ENG.
                                             (1); ENV. (2); SAN. ENG. (1)
              12/04/1994                6    TTL (1); FIN. ANALYSIS (1);
                                             ENV. (2); ENG. (1); SAN. ENG.
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/13/1995                6    FIN. ANALYSIS (2); ENG.
                                             (1); SOC. SC. (1); ENV. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)

 Supervision

              07/13/1995                1    FIN. ANALYSIS (1)                  HS             HS
              09/30/1995                3    ENG. (1); FIN. ANALYSIS (1);       HS             HS
                                             RESETTLEMENT (1)
              05/31/1996                4    SAN. ENG. (1); ENV. (1);           S               S
                                             RESETTLEMENT (1); FIN.
                                             ANALYSIS (1)
              06/18/1996                3    ENV. (1); SAN. ENG. (1); FIN.      S               S
                                             ANALYSIS (1)
              07/09/1997                6    OPERATIONS (1);                    S               S
                                             INSTITUTION (1); CIVIL ENG.
                                             (1); ENV. (2); SAN. ENG. (1)
              04/24/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                  S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              10/30/1998                2    TTL (1); DISBURSEMENT (1)          S               S
              07/01/1999                5    TTL (1); FIN. ANALYSIS (1);        S               S
                                             SAN. ENG. (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              12/03/1999                5    TTL/ SAN. ENG. (1); FIN.           S               S
                                             ANALYSIS (1); ENV. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1)
              06/25/2000                5    TTL/ SAN. ENG. (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); ENV. (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1); FIN.
                                             ANALYSIS (DESK REVIEW)
                                             (1)
              03/29/2001                5    TTL/ SAN. ENG (1); FIN.            S               S
                                             ANALYSIS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);



                                              - 19 -

                                            DISBURSEMENT (1); WATER
                                            RESOURCES (1)
               11/7/2001               5    TTL/ SAN. ENG. (1);               S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT (1); ENV. (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT (1); FIN.
                                            ANALYSIS (DESK REVIEW)
                                            (1)
               10/01/2002              5    TTL/ SAN. ENG. (1); FIN.          S    S
                                            ANALYSIS (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT (1); WATER
                                            RESOURCES ENG. (1)
               05/12/2003              6    TTL/ SAN. ENG. (1); FIN.          S    S
                                            ANALYSIS (1); WATER
                                            RESOURCES (1); ECON. (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT (1)
               10/24/2003              8    TTL/ SAN. ENG.                    S    S
                                            (1); WATER RESOURCES
                                            (1); FIN. ANALYSIS (1); FMS
                                            (1); ENV. (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            (1); INFORMATION
                                            SOLUTIONS (1); OPERATION
                                            AND MAINTENANCE (1)
               03/19/2004              4    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); FIN.           S    S
                                            ANALYSIS (1);
                                            INFORMATION SOLUTIONS
                                            (1); OPERATION AND
                                            MAINTENANCE (1)

 ICR
               06/04/2004             2     TTL/SAN. ENG.(1); ECON
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           180.5                         709.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 28.9                           60.7
  Supervision                          182.0                         614.8
  ICR                                     8.0                          40.0
  Total                                399.4                        1424.5




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Borrower performance in Preparation is rated marginally satisfactory.




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Relevant information from supporting Bank and external project documents have been incorporated in the
main text and in annexes. However, the following documents were also analyzed:
1. Mission aide-memoires.
2.  Office Memo dated August 15, 19998 from Mr. Prem Garg, Director, Quality Assurance Group on
   Post-Approval Quality at Entry / Quality of Supervision Assessment: South Asia Water and Sanitation
   Projects.
3. Memo dated November 18, 2002 from Mr. Prem Garg, Director, Quality Assurance Group on Final
   Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5): INDIA: Madras Water Supply II (ID: P010461)
4. Various reports and coverage in the Newspapers in Chennai.




                                                 - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report



C.K.GARIYALI I.A.S.,
Secretary to Government
Municipal Administration and
   Water Supply Department
Secretariat, Chennai - 9


D.O. Letter No. 29020/MW/2004-3 Dated 2.9.2004


Dear Thiru Shyamal Sarkar,

Sub: Second Chennai Water Supply Project (Ln 39070-6 IN) - Borrower' final evaluation report
- forwarded.

Ref:     Your letter dated 10.8.2004 addressed to Secretary to Government, M.A. & W.S.
Department, Chennai - 9


         I enclose herewith our remarks on the draft Implementation Completion Report and the
Borrower's final evaluation report on Second Chennai Water Supply Project (Ln 39070-6 IN) as
requested in your letter cited.


Yours sincerely,

  Sd/-

C.K.GARIYALI




                                             - 24 -

                             BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT ON

                         SECOND CHENNAI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT

1.0 PROJECT OBJECTIVE
         The original objective of this project is for providing water supply to Chennai City on an urgent basis.
The Veeranam Lake situated within the State about 228 km away from Chennai was selected as the source, after
considerable studies. The Veeranam Scheme was dropped subsequently since the alternative scheme of receiving
930 mld of Krishna Water from Andhra Pradesh was nearing completion and it was therefore decided to focus on
Transmission and Distribution system improvements in Chennai City. Due to the subsequent efforts of the GOTN,
the originally dropped Veeranam Project was revived in 2002 and completed with partial funding from GOTN and
remaining from the Board's own sources and loans from Commercial Banks and commissioned in 2004. This
scheme has now been supplemented by extracting 60 MLD of water from Neyveli Aquifer and it is also proposed to
further tap 150 MLD from the Kollidam river bed located upstream of the New Veeranam Project and link it to the
already created infrastructure, for conveyance to the Chennai city. As such the original objective of this project in
the improvements of source of supply, treatment, distribution and conservation has been fully achieved.

2.0 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
         This project was scheduled to be implemented over a period of 6 years through 1996 ­ 2002. Due to the
important works of Twinning Arrangement Consultancy with a well run water utility and A K Basin potential
studies taken up as part of the suggestions of the World Bank in Mid-term review of the project, a project extension
of 21 months extension beyond June 2002 was considered necessary and was agreed to by the World Bank. The
project was closed on March 31, 2004.

         On closing date the expenditure of the project was Rs 7207.16 million. Out of total World Bank Loan of
US$ 86.50 Million, US $ 81.2 million have been reimbursed.

         All the works and studies were completed either as contemplated at appraisal or as per Mid-term review
except for a few activities under Twinning Arrangement Consultancy (Work of Kilpauk Water Treatment Plant
Refurbishment, Geographical Information System (GIS), Pilot metering study) and A.K. Aquifer study which was
taken up later in 2002 with the aim of assessing the ground water potential availability in the A.K. Basin. These
studies are also being carried out to completion using the Board's own funds.

3.0 ACHIEVEMENT THROUGH THE PROJECT
         Comprehensive improvement works to the 16 sewerage pumping stations were taken up and completed
which resulted in the prevention of sewage overflow and surcharge conditions in the sewerage system.

         The laying of Transmission Mains in 7 reaches for a length of 36 kms at a cost of Rs. 579.42 million
enabled Metrowater to transfer water to various water distribution stations.

         Due to the construction of 7 nos. of water distribution stations at a cost of Rs 1110.63 million, even with
lesser water supply, water availability in the pipe line could be maintained in a much better way now than prior to
this project. With limited quantity of water, comparatively better equity in distribution was possible, which evoked
positive comments from the customers. As the water supply service area for each water distribution station is only
about 3 to 4 km radius, even with lesser water supply, the water availability in pipeline can be maintained even
during reduced supply regimes. Further, in the improved zones, several areas where water was not received in over
a decade have started receiving water due to the improvements carried out under this Project.

         The strengthening of water distribution systems which was completed in 11 zones out of 16 zones for a
length of 660 km in Chennai city at a cost of Rs.2209.22 million has increased the piped water supply availability.
It is programmed to take up the strengthening of distribution system in the remaining 5 zones under the Third
Chennai Project.




                                                         - 25 -

4.0 WATER CONSERVATION
          Keeping in view the expected gap between demand and supply in future and also to upgrade the
distribution system and to prevent wastage of water, one of the components taken up under this project is the
conservation of water by implementing the Leak Detection and Rectification Programme.

          Under the leak detection and rectification programme, the following works were carried out:

Activity Phase                           Renewal of distribution Pipes           Renewal        of  House      service
                                                                                 connections
Phase ­ III                                     --                                 34,800 nos
Phase ­ IV                                      261.49 km                          68,630 nos
Phase ­ V                                       323.24 km                          91,732 nos
                                         ---------------------                   ------------------
                                                584.73 km                         1,95,162 nos
                                         ---------------------                   ------------------

          Thus, under this project about 65% of the area of distribution system was covered under the Leak
Detection and Rectification programme at a cost of Rs.1616.91 millions.

          On account of these works, the level of Unaccounted for Water in the areas covered by the programme has
been reduced from an average of about 35% to 11%, thus resulting in additional water availability to the Chennai
citizen, besides increase in service pressure in the distribution system and the overall consumer satisfaction.

4.1       Metering Programme
          The water conservation programme includes progressive introduction and comprehensive coverage of
domestic metering in each zone mainly to conserve water, to introduce volumetric billing and, to enhance the
revenues to Metrowater.

          During 1999, anticipating an improvement in water supply on account of the distribution system
improvement works being implemented in this project, about 64000 domestic connections were proposed to be
covered by metering. Bids were invited for this work for supply installation and maintenance of the meters for 5
years following ICB procedures. Though 12 firms purchased the bid documents, no bids were actually received on
the due date. On detailed discussion, it was found that the firms were prepared to supply meters, but installation
and maintenance of the meters (some of them located at depths of 2 meters below ground levels) was considered
difficult. On further discussions with the World Bank, it was decided to take up metering in a Pilot area after
isolation of the same and ensuring sufficient pressures for metering and installation in such a way that the meters
alone were raised at a higher level to facilitate installation and readability.

          Accordingly, about 710 meters were installed in Depot-64 in Area-V in February 2002. This system also
suffered from disadvantages and consumer resistance during the acute scarcity years in 2003. It was therefore
planned to utilise the Twinning Arrangement Consultancy who were requested to purchase, install and study
various types of water meters in a Pilot area and actually observe performance in Chennai city conditions of low
pressure and recommend the best possible meters together with the appropriate installation procedure including
easy readability for taking all the meter readings periodically.

          After completion of the study and finalising the above issues it is proposed to take up metering in a
comprehensive way under the proposed Third Chennai Project.

5.0 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
          The project includes provision of US$ 10.5 million (Rs.138.50 million) for technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation support:
     i)   Consultancy for hydraulic balancing of water transmission and distribution networks.
     ii) Consultancy for detailed engineering for sewage collection and conveyance. Detailed Engineering and



                                                           - 26 -

         bidding documents for sewage collection, force mains and pumping stations, and improvement on the
         existing network.
    iii) Consultancy for detailed engineering of water distribution network.
    iv) Consultancy for detailed engineering for sewage treatment plants. Detailed engineering and bidding
         documents for improvement of existing plants at Nesapakkam, Koyambedu and Kodungaiyur and
         proposed additional treatment facilities.
    v) Consultancy for detailed engineering for sewage treatment plants. Detailed engineering and bidding
         documents to upgrade from primary to secondary sewage treatment plant in Perungudi.
    vi) Consultancy for Environmental Impact Assessment for proposed Chennai-III Project.
    vii) Consultancy for retrofit and rehabilitation action plan for persons affected by Krishna Water Supply
         Project.
    viii)Consultancy for preparation of the Project Implementation Plan of Third Project.
    ix) Consultancy for Low cost sanitation.
    x) Consultancy for organizational re-engineering

         Consultancies (i) to (v) related to preparation of detailed engineering designs and cost estimates, including
bidding documents for various components, which were included in the project and also for those proposed for the
Third Chennai Project. Consultancies (vi), (vii) and (viii) related to the preparatory activities for the proposed
Third Chennai Project. Consultancy (ix) related to proposal for low cost sanitation in areas where provision of
regular sewerage is not technically feasible and in certain locations like scattered slums.         The Consultancy
mentioned as item (x) relates to Organisational re-engineering for Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) undertaken with a view to study and implement the re-engineering of the
organisational structure to make organisation more efficient and responsive to consumer needs.

5.1      Additional Consultancies
i)       The World Bank in the Aide Memoire of April 1998 advised CMWSSB to enter into a Twinning
Arrangement Consultancy with a well run water utility to improve performance and to internalise best practices in
project planning implementation as well as Operation and Maintenance in a cost effective way. Accordingly a
Twinning Arrangement Consultancy was entered into with the M/s. Campagnie Generale Des Eaux (GdE) France,
at a cost of Rs. 196.28 million. The Consultants were to study the existing activities of the organisation in the
diagnostic phase for four months and then design an implementation phase for 36 months. Accordingly, the
Consultants identified 25 activities broadly covering the specific areas. Out of these, 11 activities were taken up
for implementation within the Project period and the consultants interacted with Metrowater and completed the
works and submitted the reports. At the time of project closure 3 activities were still in progress. The activities are
GIS study, Kilpauk Water Treatment Plant Refurbishment and pilot metering study. These works are being
continued till completion using the Board's own funds.
ii)      Another important consultancy was the reassessment of the potential in the Araniar Kortalaiyar Basin
Aquifer. There were conflicting estimates of the availability of water in the Araniar Kortalaiyar Basin by various
agencies. For example, UNDP studies assessed the potential as 350 McM / year, the WRO at 594 McM / year and
the Central Ground Water Board estimated the same as 980 McM / year over a slightly larger area. Against this,
Metrowater is currently drawing only about 36 McM / year not considering the drawal for agricultural operations
by the various farmers. Hence, World Bank decided that reassessment of the potential of this aquifer which is
close to Chennai City will be very useful and accordingly, consultancy bid documents were prepared and sent to the
Bank for concurrence in 1997. The Terms of reference were revised twice by the Bank and the bids invited in 25th
June 1998, but the bids received could not be accepted due to the high cost and revised bids were invited under a
fixed budget format. The work was entrusted to M/s. Knight Piesold, U.K. at a cost of Rs.65 million, in April
2002. The final report of Phase-I of the consultancy was delayed due to a change in the ownership of the
Company. The new Company M/s. Scott Wilson Piesold could complete the Phase-I study only by March 2004.
Phase-II Consultancy work is about to be commenced and this will be continued and completed.

         All the 12 consultancies have been completed and the total expenditure incurred under this component is
Rs. 390.87 million.




                                                         - 27 -

6.0 ADDITIONAL PIPE LINE WORKS
          In view of anticipated savings in the overall sanctioned project outlay, proposals were made to the Bank in
November 2000 seeking concurrence to take up additional works of distribution strengthening in 2 zones at a cost
of Rs.221.1 million. However, the World Bank deferred permission for the above works. Ultimately at Project
closure, an amount of about US$ 5 million of loan could not be availed. Metrowater would have been in a position
to utilise the Bank loan to a greater extent had these additional proposals been cleared by the Bank at that stage
itself. In fact CMWSSB even offered to fund the cost of balance works, and the additional works, if any, after
completion of the project date, but this was not acceptable to the Bank.

7.0 ADDITIONAL WORKS
          Subsequent to the implementation proposals of the Twinning Consultants after discussing with the World
Bank Mission, the following additional works were taken up for implementation.

7.1       Supply and Installation of Bulk Water Meters
          CMWSSB took up the work of installation of electromagnetic bulk flow meters at various locations,
particularly in Wellfield areas, existing Water Treatment Plants and Water Distribution Stations in November
2003 with a contract value of Rs 24.6 Million for fixing 56 nos of Bulk Flow Water Meters. Due to prevailing
conditions in water supply, it was decided to take up the installation work without affecting the existing water
supply. Hence the ongoing work of installation of Bulk Meters is expected to be completed after the project closure
(i.e), by September 2004.

7.2       Refurbishment of Kilpauk Water Treatment plant
          The Kilpauk Water Treatment Plant was in service since 1914 for several decades. It was decided to take
up the refurbishment of the Kilpauk Water Treatment Plant at a contract value of Rs. 226.89 million and work
commenced on April 2003. Although it was originally programmed to complete the entire work by March 2004,
only about 80% of the works could be completed on the loan closure date of March 2004, due to the magnitude of
the works and since the actual time required for refurbishment was more than the estimated time.

7.3       Supply and installation of Chlorinators in Water Distribution Stations
          Based on the suggestions of the World Bank Mission during May 2003, the work of supply and
installation of Chlorinators of capacity 20Kg/ Hr was taken up in all the 15 Water Distribution Stations at a
contract value of Rs. 28.99 million and completed.

8.0 FINANCE & RELATED ISSUES

8.1       Tariff Structure
          Throughout the project period and during review of performance at various stages, the Bank has been
reiterating the need for revision of tariff structure on annual basis. CMWSSB appreciates that a viable tariff
structure is an essential tool for improving financial performance. During the project period (1998), CMWSSB
was given autonomy for tariff revision. CMWSSB revised the tariff structure in two consecutive years in 1997
(July 1, 1997) and 1998 (October 1, 1998) for all consumers. In respect of domestic consumers, CMWSSB could
not revise the tariff, because of the severe water scarcity position. However, throughout the project period,
CMWSSB was able to maintain a sustainable financial position. In the last 10 years, CMWSSB achieved net
operating surplus, which ranged between Rs. 15 million and Rs. 440 million. The covenant of annual tariff
revision in respect of water charges, needs to be reviewed by the Bank. In this regard, it is suggested that the Bank
may look at the overall financial performance, instead of insisting an annual tariff revision for water charges.

8.2       Problems in disbursements
          Since pipe line works invariably include payment of road cut restoration charges to Corporation of
Chennai, Highways and Railways for crossing works etc., it will be necessary to include reimbursement of these
costs under civil works in a special category so as to avoid the type of reimbursement problems that were faced in
this Project.




                                                         - 28 -

         As a result of the statement of expenditure (SOE) review under taken by the World Bank, November 1999,
it was indicated that expenditure related to road cut restoration charges were paid in advance to Chennai Municipal
Corporation, Highways, TNEB, Railways, etc. and these were eligible for reimbursement, only after certificate of
completion of the works is issued by the respective agencies. Since this was difficult and reimbursement in Force
Accounts was applicable only for small civil works, there was a necessity to raise the ceiling amount specified in
the agreement. After detailed discussions and correspondence, the Bank agreed to increase the reimbursement
percentage for civil works from 64 to 80% and Force Account SOE limit was raised from US$ 3 million to US$ 4.5
million.

8.3      Taxes and Duties
         Considerable amount of taxes and duties are incurred towards the project implementation and included in
the total cost of the project, which are at present not eligible for reimbursement. However, these are part of the
cash outflow to the implementing agency. Hence, it is suggested to review the issue eligibility of reimbursing the
tax and duty component. As most of the World Bank Projects are capital intensive and large in nature, the
contracts awarded are on milestone basis. If a particular milestone is not achieved by the contractor / supplier, as
per the tender conditions, fines are recovered. Subsequently, either with appropriate explanations or by means of
arbitration, it may become necessary to reimburse these to the contractor / supplier. Since this is also a cash
outflow, the possibility of including this in the reimbursement purview may be considered by the Bank.

8.4      Lending Procedure - Tenor of Loans
         Development works in the water and sanitation sector are long gestation projects and the pay back of these
projects would take long years. The loan period currently fixed by the Bank is 20 years, including a moratorium of
5 years. In as much as project completion and commissioning normally takes 5 to 10 years and pay back period
commences only from that period, a larger repayment period may be considered.

9.0 SUGGESTIONS FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF WORLD BANK
         The proposals for extension of distribution network in unserved parts of the Chennai city for a length of
52 kms. could not be taken up in view of the huge cost as per the tenders received. Analysis indicated that
procurement cost of DI pipes manufactured by monopoly manufacturer in India was the principal cause for the
higher cost. CMWSSB can procure the DI pipes on the DGS&D rates and execute the projects at a comparatively
cheaper cost. Permitting this procedure is presently outside the scope of the Bank's procurement guidelines. The
Bank may consider a review of the procurement guidelines in such deserving cases.

         Frequent changes of Task Managers end up in reorientation of the priorities and it will be useful, if the
changes are found very essential, to restrict to bare minimum. In respect of AK Aquifer consultancy, Bank's
consultants changed the TOR twice before Bids could be called for and this resulted in delays.

10.0 THIRD CHENNAI PROJECT
         In order to complete the balance of infrastructure works that are needed to complete all the works
programmed as per the Master Plan, a Third Chennai Project at a cost of Rs.7500 millions has been posed to the
World Bank for assistance.

11.0 CONCLUSION
         The Supervision Missions have been generally visiting on schedule, at the rate of two Missions per year.
The frequency, staffing, mode of operation are considered adequate. Aide Memories are being received regularly
at the end of the Missions. The quality and timeliness of response is excellent.




                                                         - 29 -

- 30 -

