LOAN NUMBER 3907 IN
Loan Agreement
(Second Madras Water Supply Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated   ), 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3907 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          ,                    , 1995, between INDIA,
Acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility i.nd
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Project will be carried out in the State of Tamil Nadu with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the State of Tamil Nadu the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, in the Tamil Nadu Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
the State of Tamil Nadu, and the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the
Bank, the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (Metro Water), and
the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of


﻿-2-
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a State of India, and any
successor thereto;
(b)    "Tamil Nadu Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all agreements supplemn tal to the Tamil Nadu Agreement; and
(c)    "Metro Water" means the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewerage Board of Tamil Nadu;
(d)    "TWAD" means the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board;
(e)    "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank, Metro
Water and TWAD of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(f)    "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between Tamil Nadu and Metro Water pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Tamil Nadu
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-3-
(g)    "Rehabilitation Action Plan" means the resettlement and rehabilitation
plan dated April 1995 approved by the Bank for the resettlement and rehabilitation of
people affected by the Project; and
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred seventy-five million
eight hundred thousand dollars ($275,800,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
Section 2.02.(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in


﻿-4-
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
as follows:
"(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rates applicable during such Interest Period."


﻿-5 -
"(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)   (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to thi. Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
shall cause Tamil Nadu, and Metro Water and TWAD, to perform in accordance with the
respective provisions of the Tamil Nadu and Project Agreements all the obligations of
Tamil Nadu, and Metro Water and TWAD, therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Tamil Nadu, and Metro Water and TWAD, to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b)    The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Tamil
Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,


﻿-6-
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Tamil Nadu, and
Metro Water and TWAD, as the case may be, pursuant to the respective Section 2.03 of
the Tamil Nadu and Project Agreements.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)  ensure that a?l records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)   have tiL: records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year auditd, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and


﻿-7-
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified;
(a)    Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Tamil Nadu Agreement.
(b)    Metro Water and TWAD shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that Tamil Nadu or Metro Water and TWAD will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the Tamil Nadu and Project Agreements; and
(d)    Tamil Nadu or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Metro Water or TWAD or for the
suspension of their operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    The event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)    The event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of T'mil
Nadu and Metro Water; and
(b)    TWAD has furnished to the Bank final designs and tender documents
satisfactory to the Bank for the transmission main, pumping stations and treatment plant
to be constructed under the project, which shall include, inter alia, the recommendations
of an independent digineering review.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)    that the Tamil Nadu Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
Tamil Nadu, and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms;
(b)    that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Metro
Water and TWAD, and is legally binding upon Metro Water and TWAD in accordance
with its terms; and
(c)    that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by Tamil Nadu and Metro Water and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu and Metro
Water in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01 Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the


﻿-9-
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                  Telex:
ECOFAIRS                   953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi                  953-31-61430 FINE IN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
18i8 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INTBAFRAD                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-10-
IN WITNESS WHERECF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/ IAI
By /
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    245,300,000         64%
(2) Equipment and                   18,200,000         100% of foreign
materials                                          expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'                    12,300,000         100%
services
TOTAL                   275,800,000


﻿-12-
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$8,600,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after November 1, 1994.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not exceeding the
equivalent of $500,000 for works, $200,000 for goods, $100,000 for employment of
consulting firms and $50,000 for employment of individual consultants, all under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide urgently needed water to the city of
Madras and introduction of improvements to the distribution and conservation of water
in the area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Veeranam Tank
Carrying out of works to raise the Veeranam embankment by about 0.60 m
through excavation of silt from the tank floor; construction of new embankments and
improvements of existing embankments; carrying out of works for prevention of wave
erosion; restoration of existing embankment; construction of a foreshore embankment
and modifications to weirs and spill-way; lining improvements to Vadavar Channel;
minor irrigation works.
Part B:       Transmission. Treatment and Resettlement
(i)    The construction of a raw   water intake and pumping station;
rehabilitation of existing underground storage and construction of
additional storage; laying of transmission main from the tank to the
treatment plant at Vadakkuthu; renovation of old treatment plant with
installation of new mechanical and electrical equipment; laying of
transmission main to Porur including associated facilities; carrying out
of small water supply schemes for rural communities near the pipeline.
(ii)   The resettlement and rehabilitation of persons displaced by the Project
so as to ensure the restoration or enhancement of their standard of living
up to or above levels enjoyed by them prior to the commencement of the
implementation of the Project.
(iii)  Provision of technical assistance for preparation work, supervision of
construction for transmission mains and related facilities, studies for the
relocation and rehabilitation of displaced persons.


﻿-14-
Part C:       Distribution and Conservation
(i)    The construction of a terminal reservoir and pumping station at Porur,
and improvements to the city distribution system.
(ii)   Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of distribution zones.
(iii)  Carrying out of a program of conservation, including public awareness,
leak detection and repairs, replacements, strengthening, bulk metering
and introduction of domestic metering.
(iv)   Carrying out of studies relating to the distribution and conservation of
water, and environmental sanitation, including the preparation of a
future project.
T   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                     (Expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 2001                                         5,305,000
August 15, 2001                                           5,490,000
February 15, 2002                                         5,685,000
August 15, 2002                                           5,885,000
February 15, 2003                                         6,095,000
August 15, 2003                                           6,310,000
February 15, 2004                                         6,535,000
August 15, 2004                                           6,770,000
February 15, 2005                                         7,010,000
August 15, 2005                                           7,255.000
February 15, 2006                                         7,515,000
August 15, 2006                                           7,780,000
February 15, 2007                                         8,055,000
August 15, 2007                                           8,340,000
February 15, 2008                                         8,635,000
August 15, 2008                                           8,945,000
February 15, 2009                                         9,260,000
August 15, 2009                                           9,590,000
February 15, 2010                                         9,930,000
August 15, 2010                                          10,280,000
February 15, 2011                                        10,645,000
August 15, 2011                                          11,020,000
February 15, 2012                                        11,410,000
August 15, 2012                                          11,815,000
February 15, 2013                                        12,235,000
August 15, 2013                                          12,670,000
February 15, 2014                                        13,120,000
August 15, 2014                                          13,585,000
February 15, 2015                                        14,065,000
August 15, 2015                                          14,565,000
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿-16-
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                               0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                               0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                 0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                              0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                              0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                               1.00
maturity


﻿- 17-
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set
forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $56,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿- 18 -
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into


﻿-19-
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


