PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                              AWorld Froc of Povcrty
-lfoShop
Mc Wo 1 l lk
Report No AB76
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name              DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-DR: Health Reform Support (APL)
Region                    Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                    Health (50%); Health insurance (50%)
Project ID                P076802
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)               DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency       MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address                   SESPAS/CERSS/Superintendency of Health
Address:
Contact Person Dr. Jesus Feris Iglesias, General Coordinator, CERSS
Tel (809) 547-2509  Fax (809) 565-2768    Email
Environment Category      B
Date PID Prepared         May 5, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date       April 30, 2003
Bank Approval Date       June 12, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The Dominican Republic, with 8.4 million people in 1999 growing at a projected average annual
rate of 1.3 percent, is one of the more densely populated countries in the Americas. Rural to
urban migration and urbanization of rural areas is progressing quickly with 36% of the
population living in rural areas in 1999 compared to 45% five years earlier. Unequal distribution
of wealth results in widespread poverty. Health indicators do not compare favorably with
countries of similar per capita income (US$1,910 in 1999)Infant mortality has decreased from
42 deaths per 1,000 live births during the period 1990-95 to 34 deaths per 1,000 live births for
the period 1995-2000. The 2000 ENDESA survey puts the infant mortality rate (IMR) at This
average IMR is still too high compared to Chile (10), Costa Rica (12) or Jamaica and Panama
(both at 20) and hides the large variation between urban and rural areas and between income
levels.
The under-five mortality rate in 1999 was 47 deaths per 1,000 children under five, which is
double the rate of Jamaica and Panama, three times the rate of Costa Rica and four times the rate
of Chile. Life expectancy at birth is a satisfactory 71 years (1999) but still lower than the four
comparator countries used here where rates range from 74 in Panama to 77 in Costa Rica. The
illiteracy rate in the population aged more than 15 years is a high 17% contributing to poor health
status and levels of extreme poverty. The ratio of maternal deaths (MMR) per 100,000 live
births was 122 in 1999 or ten to fifteen times higher than ratios in developed countries. The total



2
PID
fertility rate (TFR) in 1999 was 2.8 births per woman, which is close to the TFR for the four
comparator countries.
The Dominican Republic and Haiti account for 85% of all reported HIV/AIDS cases in the
Caribbean Region. The percentage of people aged 15-49 who in 1999 were infected with HIV is
very high in the DR at 2.8 percent. The comparable percentage of adults for the LAC region is
0.58 and for all low income countries it is 2.Q1. This problem is being addressed frontally by a
World Bank financed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control project.
Public sector health spending at 2% of GDP is among the lowest in the LAC Region yet the
public sector is the largest provider of health services. Not only are resources insufficient but also
they are spent inequitably. SESPAS is assumed to provide health services to 64 percent of the
population or to 5.4 million people. Based on its average budget for the years 1996-99, it had
available US$36.67 per capita. The Social Insurance Institute, on the other hand, for the same
time period, spent US$106.67 per beneficiary. Health services provided by the two largest public
sector providers account for less than a quarter of total health care spending. Out of pocket
payments at 18.5% were higher than the SESPAS expenditures at 16% as percentages of total
health spending.
Access to health care is inequitable with people in the lower income quintiles and in rural areas
facing financial and geographic barriers. As a result the poor are sick more often and seek care
less often. This is more pronounced for chronic illness for which the poor are less likely to seek
care on a regular basis. The infant mortality rate for the poorest quintile is 67 infant deaths per
1,000 live births versus 23 infant deaths per 1,000 LB in the richest quintile. The poor have more
children: the total fertility rate for the lowest income quintile is 5.1 and it is 2.1 for the highest
income quintile. Social indicators of poverty in the 1996 ENDESA survey showed an inequitable
variation between the lowest and highest income quintiles for infant mortality rates by a factor of
three, for child immunization rates by a factor of two, and for the prevalence of child
malnutrition by a factor of thirteen.
The Challenge of Implementing the Decentralization PolicWThe President signed the
General Health Law No 42-01 (LGS) on March 8, 2001 and the law No 87-01 that creates the
Dominican Social Security System (SDSS) on May 18, 2001. Both laws authorize deep and far
reaching reforms in organizing, financing, and managing the health sector and the social security
system. Of special importance to the health sector in general and to the proposed project in
particular are the provisions allowing the transfer of technical and administrative tasks from the
central MOH level to lower MOH levels and to MOH health facilities. Increased managerial
autonomy at lower levels of the service delivery system and decentralized decision-making
would address more directly the issues faced by the operating units in carrying out their mission
to provide quality medical services. The challenge is to: (i) write the rules and regulations for
implementing these policies to complete the legal framework; (ii) make the rules and regulations
operational; (iii) transfer financial and human resources to the decentralized levels and
institutions; and (iv) break up the historical centralized power and control structure. This will
require political will, administrative expertise and a large investment in time and effort to create
and/or to strengthen the institutions to which authority has been delegated. These institutions



:3
PID
have heretofore been managed centrally, have not been allowed to make any important decision
and must now change their ways of conducting their business.     This drastic change in
organizational culture and attitudes at all levels will take time, will happen one step at a time and
will need the patience and the long term support of all donor agencies.
Government Strategy and Challenges
The country has declared health a priority.  Through its Health Sector Reform  Program
formulated in the second half of the 1990s, the GODR is seeking to improve health and nutrition
status of the population, particularly the poor, by facilitating access to quality health services in
an efficient and sustainable way. The strategic thrust of the reform program is the gradual
introduction into the health sector of elements of political, administrative and financial
decentralization.
Since 1997, the WB has financedthe Provincial Health Services Project (Report No.17199 DO)
in support of the reform program. Projects funded by the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), European Union (EU), and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
complement the WB-financed project.
2. Objectives
In three phases of four years each, the APL seeks to support the attainment of the following
development objectives: (a) contributing by the year 2015 to achieve the Millennium Development
Goals (MDG) agreed to by the Government of Dominican Republic at the Millennium Summit in
September 2000. Specifically, the APL would address three MDG goals: reduce child mortality, improve
maternal health, and contribute to eradicate extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from financial loss
due to ill health and disability; and (b) supporting the implementation of the health sector reform
legislation that provides the legal, financial, organizational and managerial enabling environment to
achieve the MDGs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed project is consistent with the 1999 CAS, which states that assistance would be provided to
the DR for improving the access to and the quality of health care services for the poor. The Bank will
continue to provide the client with access to the best international experience in health sector reform and
health services networks development and management. The reforms that the DR seeks are similar to
those accomplished by other countries of the region. The Bank has brought expertise from various
aspects of these types of reforms into the project design dialogue, and is assisting the Borrower on all
levels, from the scope and objectives of the project to the technical details of designing project
instruments.



4
PID
4. Description
Component 1: Extending Health Services Coverage
The component would develop integrated and deconcentrated health care networks at the regional,
provincial and municipal levels as authorized by the health sector reform legislation. Activities under this
component would: (a) support extending health care coverage in three priority regions using the
national health insurance financing mechanism to deliver a basic health plan of essential health services,
emphasing MCH services; (b) strengthen the clinical problem solving capabilities of the UNAPS, the
hospitals at the secondary and tertiary care levels in five regions, improve the quality of medical services
provided, and ensure a functioning referral system among levels and among networks; (c) apply national
norms to improve that physical infrastructure of Regions VI and VIII that was not covered under the first
project, i.e. equip, rehabilitation and expansion of health centers and hospitals at the primary, secondary
and tertiary levels; and (d) develop integrated and deconcentrated health care networks at the regional
levels as authorized by the health sector reform legislation.
Component 2: Implementation of the health reform legislation
This component has two objectives: (a) assist in building the institutions to implement the healthi sector
reform legislation by supporting the development of regulatory frameworks, organizational structures,
financial instruments, training programs and information systems; and (b) assist in providing the legal
and financial enabling environment for achieving the objective of Component 1.
Component 3: Improving Selected Essential Public Health Functions to promote and protect the health
of the population
This component would improve two essential public health functions: a) Epidemiological health
surveillance and control of risks in public health, by strengthening the information system for
epidemiological surveillance, the capacity and quality control of the National Public Health Laboratory,
the cold storage facilities (cold chain), establishing a national pharmacological surveillance system; and
relocation and strengthening of the Forensic Pathology Department; and b) Development of policies,
plans and management capacity for assuring SESPAS stewardship by supporting the design of a 1 0-Year
National Strategic Plan for ensuring a gradual build up and consolidation of the National Health System
and the Social Security System.
Component 4: Project Management and Impact Appraisal of Next Phase
This component would support project management, and use of performance indicators for monitoring
and evaluation, in terms of impact achieved during implementation. It would use trigger indicators to
decide on recommending financing each one of the next two phases of the program, and appraise the
technical, financial and institutional aspects of each phase.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                   $7.00
IBRD                       $35.00
IDA
Total Project Cost         $42 00



5
PID
6. Implementation
SESPAS, CERSS and the Superintendence of Health have had experience managing World Bank- and
other agencies financed projects in the DR. As a result, project management capacity exists at the DR,
including at the provincial level. The existing unit at CERSS has a strong and well developed financial
management and procurement capacity as demostrated during the implementation of the Provincial
Health Services Project and the HIfV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project.
7. Sustainability
The project would be sustainable because it is anchored in the new laws for the health sector and
for the social security system and therefore has the support at the highest political levels.
Productivity and efficiencies achieved through the project would contribute to reduce the modest
fiscal impact of project investments. The decentralization policies allowing cost recovery, the
goal of universal health insurance, and changing service provision from a supply driven to a
demand driven system would increase revenues available in the sector. Financial projections
would be developed during project preparation to ensure the financial sustainability of project
activities before completion.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design and content would build on the experience of relevant operations financed by the
World Bank and IDB, such as the ongoing Health Services Reform Project. The ongoing World
Bank project did not have the legislative support that now exists during its first three years of
implementation. Major reform initiatives were therefore slowed down as the executive level was
hamstrung by outdated health policies. It was realized early on during project execution that
substantial progress needed to be made on the policy and legal levels. Support was subsequently
provided to achieve such support as reflected in the now changed legal environment enabling
sector and institutional reforms. The proposed program is taking full advantage of the reform
principles in the new health law and social security law. Its emphasis on decentralizing decision
making and deconcentrating technical and administrative functions goes hand in hand with a
health services delivery strategy of integrated health networks targeting the poorest segments of
the population.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The project would have a beneficial impact on the environment in three ways: First. The
project would introduce substantial improvements in the handling of medical waste and will correct
current practices of releasing laboratory chemicals, other toxic materials and organic waste into
municipal refuse systems. The project will finance the civil works, equipment, materials, training and
operating costs necessary to implement these. All rehabilitation works will include waste management
measures. The second way in which the project will contribute to improving the environment will be by
replacing outdated, inefficient equipment manufactured an estimated 20 years ago with equipment
designed with greater environmental awareness. The project will also have a favorable environmental
impact through the rehabilitation of civil works, where malfunctioning or inoperative basic systems for
water, electricity and air conditioning will be repaired and/or replaced. This is expected to improve water
quality and reduce environmental pollution. Environmental construction and management norms for
health facilities, including internal waste management, personnel health and safety provisions for the
handling and disposal of biological waste and operation of equipment will be part of the Operations
manual for the project.



6
PID
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Patricio V. Marquez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 473-0163
Fax: (202) 522-1201
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  10/22/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
E~ARCH Z     J LF~EEDAKZL. LirZEZ I   A     PT LSOWAPE_J 



