1
ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 AWorld Froc of Povorty
AifoShop
l'be WVsrld MOX1
Report No AC66
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/08/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                       Project ID: P076802
Project: DR: Health Reform Support (APL)          Task Team Leader: Patricio V. Marquez
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 30, 2003       IBRD Amount ($m): 35.00
Bank Approval: June 12, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSI4H                             Sector:, Health (50%), Health insurance (50%)
Lending Instrument Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: Health system performance (P)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
In three phases of four years each, the APL seeks to support the attainment of the following
development objectives: (a) contributing by the year 2015 to achieve the Millennium Development
Goals (MDG) agreed to by the Government of Dominican Republic at the Millennium Summit in
September 2000. Specifically, the APL would address three MDG goals: reduce child mortality, improve
maternal health, and contribute to eradicate extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from financial loss
due to ill health and disability; and (b) supporting the implementation of the health sector reform
legislation that provides the legal, financial, organizational and managerial enabling environment to
achieve the MDGs.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1. Extending Health Services Coverage
The component would develop integrated and deconcentrated health care networks at the regional,
provincial and municipal levels as authorized by the health sector reforn legislation. Activities under this
component would: (a) support extending health care coverage in three priority regions using the
national health insurance financing mechanism to deliver a basic health plan of essential health services,
emphasing MCH services; (b) strengthen the clilical problem solving capabilities of the UNAPS, the
hospitals at the secondary and tertiary care levels in five regions, improve the quality of medical services
provided, and ensure a functioning referral system among levels and among networks; (c) apply national
norms to improve that physical infrastructure of Regions VI and VIII that was not covered under the first
project, i.e. equip, rehabilitation and expansion of health centers and hospitals at the primary, secondary
and tertiary levels; and (d) develop integrated and deconcentrated health care networks at the regional
levels as authorized by the health sector reform legislation.
Component 2: Implementation of the health reform legislation



2
ISDS
This component has two objectives: (a) assist in building the institutions to implement the health sector
reform legislation by supporting the development of regulatory frameworks, organizational structures,
financial instruments, training programs and information systems; and (b) assist in providing the legal
and financial enabling environment for achieving the objective of Component I.
Component 3: Improving Selected Essential Public Health Functions to promote and protect the health
of the population
This component would improve two essential public health functions: a) Epidemiological health
surveillance and control of risks in public health, by strengthening the information system for
epidemiological surveillance, the capacity and quality control of the National Public Health Laboratory,
the cold storage facilities (cold chain), establishing a national pharmacological surveillance system; and
relocation and strengthening of the Forensic Pathology Department; and b) Development of policies,
plans and management capacity for assuring SESPAS stewardship by supporting the design of a 1 0-Year
National Strategic Plan for ensuring a gradual build up and consolidation of the National Health System
and the Social Security System.
Component 4: Project Management and Impact Appraisal of Next Phase
This component would support project management, and use of performance indicators for monitoring
and evaluation, in terms of impact achieved during implementation. It would use trigger indicators to
decide on recommending financing each one of the next two phases of the program, and appraise the
technical, financial and institutional aspects of each phase.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Component I will be implemented in seventeen provinces in Regions 111, IV, VI, VII and VIII. For
Components II and III the project will have a national scope.
B. Check Environniental Classiflcation: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments*
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            O Yes * No    O TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes * No    O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes *No     O TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               O Yes * No    O TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                O Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,



3
ISDS
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
n/a
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
n/a
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to antic ipated future activities in the project area.
Medical Waste Management. The medical waste produced in health care facilities is potentially
infectious. An assessment of medical waste disposal infrastructure and practice was carried out and
found to be adequate for purposes of carrying out the project. Activities under the proposed project are
not expected to generate any adverse environmental effect. Medical waste generated under the project
components would be managed using existing guidelines in the country, that were updated after the
promulgation of the Health Sector Reform Law in 2001 (supported under the WB financed Provicial
Health Services Project).
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (it required)
The environmental guidelines in the Operational Manual will include: (a) waste management and
disposal; (b) personnel health and safety provisions for the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes;
and (c) environmental guidelines in the bidding documents for civil works. Annex 2.B in the Project
Appraisal Document (Annex I to this form) presents a detailed description.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
As has been done on the ongoing projects, resources have been allocated under the project's component I
to finance improvements in the biomedical waste management in the different participating institutions,
including equipment purchase, training of personnel and updating of guidelines and internal norms.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Different public, private and non-governmental stakeholders whio are part of the National Health Council
have actively participated in the design of project related activities, as well as in the design of
macro-sectoral reform and processes.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Provincial health authorities in selected areas to be covered under Phase I of the APL have been
consulted and were involved in the preparation of the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues



4
ISDS
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                  5/7/2003       5/2/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                              5/2/2003       5/2/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                               5/12/2003      Not Available
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Patricio V. Marquez                           05/06/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                           05/08/2003
Sector Manager/Director:       Ana-Maria Arriagada                          05/08/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
L    sriJ      LFEEDDACK      [rr            I ;rUASE hlA  7



