                                         Documentof
                                    The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                        Report 25809-DO




                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                           ONA

                                   PROPOSEDLOAN

                       INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$30.0MILLION

                           TO THE DOMINICANREPUBLIC

                 FORTHE HEALTHREFORMSUPPORT PROJECT

                    INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHE

                      HEALTHREFORMSUPPORT PROGRAM

                                      JUNE 5,2003




Caribbean Country Management Unit
HumanDevelopment Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective 05/20/2003)

          Currency Unit = Dominican Pesos
                   US$1= DOP 25.8

                    FISCAL YEAR
               January 1- December 31

            Abbreviationsand Acronyms

AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
APL        Adaptable Program Lending
ARS        Health Risk Administrators
BHP        Basic Health Plan
C A L      Logistic Support Center
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CAASD      Santo Domingo Aqueduct & Sewer Corporation
CERSS      Executive Commission of Health Sector Reform
CORAASAN   The Santo Domingo Aqueduct & Sewer Corportion of the Province of
           Santiago
COPRESIDA  The Presidential Commission for HIV/AIDS
CQ
csw        Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
           Commercial Sex Workers
DIDA       Affiliates Informationand Advocacy Bureau (Direccidn de
           Informacidn y Defensa de Afiliados)
DR         Dominican Republic
EA         Environmental Assessment
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
EU         European Union
FMR        Financial Management Reports
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GODR       Government of DominicanRepublic
H I V      Human Immune-Deficiency Virus
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association
IDSS       Social Security Institute
IMR        Infant Mortality Rate
INAPA      National Institute of Water Supply
INSALUD    National Health Institute
ISSFAPOL   Social Security Institute for the ArmedForces and the National Police
IT         Information Technology
LAN        Local Area Networks
LCS        Least-Cost Selection
LGS        General Health Law
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
M D G      Millennium Development Goals
MIS        Management InformationSystem
M M R      Maternal Mortality Rate
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organizations
NHC        National Health Council

                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                   PAD           Project Appraisal Document
                   PAHO          Pan American Health Organization
                   PARSS         Health Sector Reform Support Program (Programa de Apoyo al Sector
                                 Salud)
                   PCD            Project Concept Document
                   PCU            Project Coordination Unit
                   PEU            Project Executing Agencies
                   PHSP           Provincial Health Services Project
                   PSS            Health Services Providers
                   PLWA           Persons Living with HIV/AIDS
                   PPS            Private Health Providers
                   PROMESE        Essential Drugs Program
                   POA            Annual Operations Plan
                   QCBS           Quality and Cost-Based Selection
                   SBD            Standard BiddingDocuments
                   SDSS           Dominican Social Security System
                   SENASA         National HealthInsurance
                   SESPAS         Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance
                   SFS            Universal Family Insurance System
                   SIAP           Automated Financial Management System
                   SIPEN          Superintendence of Pensions
                   SISALRIL       Healthand Labor Risks Superintendence
                   SOE            Statement of Expenditures
                   SRS            Regional Health Services
                   STI            Sexually Transmitted Infections
                   TB             Tuberculosis
                   TFR            Total Fertility Rate
                   TORS           Terms of Reference
                   UMDI           Modernization and Institutional Development Unit
                   UNAIDS         UnitedNations AIDS Program
                   UNDP           United Nations Development Program
                   UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
                   USAID          US Agency for International Development
                   USD            US Dollars
                   WAN            Wide Area Networks
                   WB             World Bank
                   WHO            World Health Organization

                     Vice President:                    DavidD e Ferranti
                     Country ManagedDirector:           Caroline D. Anstey
                     Sector Director:                   Ana-Maria Amagada
                     Sector Manager:                    Evangeline Javier
                     Sector Leader:                     William Experton
                     Team Leader:                       Patricio MBrquez




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmaybe usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                  DominicanRepublicHealthReformSupport Program

                                                 CONTENTS

A Program Purpose. Project Development Objective
 .
 .                                                                                                                         3

2.Project development objective.................................................................................
1 Program purpose and program phasing........................................................................              3
                                                                                                                           7
3. Key performance indicators.....................................................................................         8

B Strategic Context
 .                     ..............................................................................................      9
1 Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project......................
 .                                                                                                                         9
2.Main sector issues and Government strategy.................................................................              9
3.Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.........................................              15
4.Programdescription and performance triggers for subsequentloans....................................                      16

C Programand Project Description Summary
 .                                                         ..............................................................  16
1.Project components..............................................................................................         16
2.Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.............................................               19
3.Benefits and target population.................................................................................          19
4.Institutionaland implementation arrangements.............................................................                20

D Project Rationale                                                                                                        22
1.Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection...................................................
 .                     ..............................................................................................
                                                                                                                           22
2.Major related project financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies........................                     23
3.Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.........................................................             23
4.Indications of borrower commitment and ownership........................................................                 24
5.Value added of Bank support in this project..................................................................            25

E Summary Project Analysis
 .                                  ...................................................................................    25
1.Economic..........................................................................................................       25
2.Financial...........................................................................................................     25
3.Technical..........................................................................................................      25
4.Institutional.......................................................................................................     26
5.Environmental....................................................................................................        27
                                                                                                                           29
7.Safeguard Policies...............................................................................................
6.Social...............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                           30

F Sustainability and Risks
 .                              ......................................................................................     30
1 Sustainability
 .               .....................................................................................................     30
2.Critical risks......................................................................................................     31
3.Possible controversial aspects..................................................................................         31

                                                        3


G.Main LoanConditions.   ......................................................................................  31

H.Readinessfor Implementation.    .............................................................................  32

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies     ..............................................................................  32



Annexes

 Annex la: Project Design Summary
 Annex lb: LinkingOutputs, Outcomes and Impact
 Annex IC: Government Policy Letter
 Annex 2a: Detailed Project Description
 Annex 2b: Medical Waste Management Assessment inthe Dom. Rep.
 Annex 2c: Donor's Assistance in the Health Sector
 Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
 Annex 4: Economic Analysis
 Annex 5: Financial Summary
 Annex 6(A) Procurement Arrangements
 Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Agreements
 Annex 7: Project ProcessingBudget and Schedule
 Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
 Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits
 Annex 10: Country at a Glance




Map: IBRD 19599R

                                        Dominican Republic
                                  Health Reform Support Program


                                Project Appraisal Document

                            LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice
                                  Caribbean Country ManagementUnit


  Date: June 5,2003                                            Team Leader: Patricio Mhrquez
   Country Manager/Director: Caroline D. Anstey                Sector Managernlirector: Ana Maria Arriagada
  Project ID: PO76802                                          Sector: Health
  Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)             Theme@): Health/Nutrition/Population
                                                               Poverty Targeted
                                                               Intervention [XI [INo
                                                                              Yes

  Program FinancingData
  APL                  IndicativeFinancingPlan             Estimated Implementation      Borrower
                                                           Period(BankFY)
                       IBRD           Others    Total      Commitment       Closing
                       US$m      %    U S $ m   U S $ m   Date              Date
  APL 1                30.0    I 70   12.71     42.71      June 2003        December     Government of the
          Loan                                                              2007         Dominican Republic

                                               I
  APL 2                30.0    I 70 1I
                                      12.00    I 42.00     June 2007        December
                                                                            2011       1
          Loan
  APL 3            IIII
                   I           I




                       30.0    I 70 1 12.00    I 42.00     June 2011        December
          Loan                                                             12015


   [XILoan                                                                      [] Other [Specify]
~~                            [] Credit         []    Grant     [] Guarantee
  For Loans/Credits/Others:
  Total Project Cost (US$m): 42.71                           Cofinancing:
  Total Bank Financing (US$m): 30.0
  Has there beena discussionof the IBRDfinancial product with the Borrower?      [XI [ ]No
                                                                                    Yes
  Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms available on File:     [XIYes
  Proposed terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
  Commitment fee: 0.85 % for the first four years,      Front-endfee (FEF)on Bank loan: 1%
  and0.75 thereafter
  Initialchoice of Interest-rate basis: Automatic Rate Fixing(ARF) by period

  Type of repayment schedule:
  [XIFixedatCommitment, withthefollowingrepaymentmethod(chooseone): finalmaturityof17years,
  includinga grace period of 5 years with level repaymentof principal
  [ ] Linkedto Disbursement

                                                2




Financingplan:
Source                                               Local             Foreign            TotaI
Government                                            12.71                               12.71

IBRD                                                  14.80            15.20              30.00

Total:                                                27.51            15.20              42.71

Borrower: Government ofthe DominicanRepublic




Cumulative     5.90           14.43        23.93      30.0




Feris Iglesias,ExecutiveDirecto;, CERSS, Dr. Bernardo-Defillo,Superintendent, SISARIL; andDra.Alma
Bobadilla, ExecutiveDirector,SENASA
Address: Edif. F.J.Montalvo,CalleGustavoMejiaRicartNo. 141, Santo Domingo,Rep. Dom.                 -


Phone: (809) 547-2509             Fax: (809) 565-2768           E-mail: reformasalud@cerss.g:ob.do
              ~

                                                  3




                                       Dominican Republic
                                Health Reform Support Program

A. Program Purpose andProject Development Objective

The proposed Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL)aims at:

    a) Contributing to achieve by the year 2015 the Millennium Development Goals (MDG)
         agreed to by the Government of the Dominican Republic at the Millennium Summit in
         September 2000. Specifically, the APL would address three MDG goals: reduce child
         mortality, improve maternal health, and contribute to eradicate extreme poverty by
         protectingthe poorest from financial loss due to illhealth and disability;
    b) Supporting implementation of the new legal framework for the health sector, particularly
         the institutional strengthening of SESPAS in its new stewardship role, the development
         of insurance mechanisms, and the configuration of regionalhealth networks; and
    c) Supporting preparation, validation and dissemination of supplementary norms and
         regulations to the General Health Law (42-01) and the Social Security Law (87 -01).

1. ProgramPurposeandProgramPhasing

1.1      Health Sector Context Today. The Dominican Republic's health system consists of
multiple public and private providers operating with loose guidelines, minimum regulations,
overlapping functions and with scarce coordination to guarantee universal access to quality and
efficient health services. With the promulgation of the new reform laws, the Secretariat of Public
Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) in its stewardship role is responsible for setting health
policies, enforcing the separation of provision from financing public health care, and ensuring
quality and effective health care. Existing financing and resource allocation mechanisms are
being modified with support of ongoing projects financed by the World Bank, IDB, USAID, EU,
among others, following criteria and mechanisms to channel funds according to health needs and
other socio-economic variables.

Several entities finance and provide health services in the public sector: SESPAS, the Dominican
Social Security Institute (IDSS), the Social Security Institutes for the Armed Forces and the
National Police, and other decentralized institutions and NGOs receiving state subsidies.
SESPAS' mandate is to provide health care to meet the health needs of the poor and the
indigents, which presently are estimated at 64 percent of the population or 5.4 million people.
The IDSS provides health services to 530,000 regular beneficiaries and to about 100,000
temporary workers or at most to 7.5 percent of the population.

Most private hospitals tend to be small. About 80% of the private hospitals have fewer than 20
beds. Almost all private sector activity is concentrated in the two largest cities: Santo Doming0
and Santiago. No statistical data are available on the number, size, and composition of the private
sector, which i s largely unregulated and unsupervised.         Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs) have grown throughout the country and are active in health promotion and reproductive
health services. The current and the past two governments have been very much aware of the
inequitable access to health services by all Dominicans, the inefficiency and the low quality in the
health sector, the dissatisfaction of the population with public services, and therefore prepared a
vast health sector reformprogram.

                                                 4


1.2     The Health Sector Reform Laws of 2001 and the Country's Vision. The executive
and legislative work spanning a ten year time period culminated in 2001 with the approval by
Congress and the Presidential signature of two laws that reshape the financing, the organization,
the management and the delivery of health services in the Dominican Republic (DR). The first
one i s the General Health Law approved in March 2001 that authorizes, inter alia,
deconcentrating and decentralizing the management of health care services from the central
SESPAS level to local administrative units (regional, provincial) and to health care institutions.
SESPAS would transfer technical, managerial and administrative tasks to local levels and to
SESPAS health facilities within ten years. The General Health Law also defines seven
fundamental principles: universality, solidarity, equity, efficiency, efficacy, comprehensiveness,
and cooperation (art.ll), and creates the National Health Council (NHC) as the institution
responsible for formulating, follow up, and evaluation of health policy.

The second Law that created the Dominican Social Security System, was approved by Congress
and signed by the President inMay 2001. This law mandates specifically to:

    Separate the functions o f (i)stewardship of the health sector, (ii)financing services, and (iii)
    service provision. Stewardship would be the responsibility of SESPAS. Health care would
   be financed through a family insurance system consisting of an autonomous national agency
    for the public sector (SENASA) and for the private sector (Health Risk Administrators or
   ARS). Health care provision would be the responsibility of regional healthnetwork providers
   contracting with SENASA and ARS to provide the basic health plan. SISARIL i s the
   regulatory body of the new systems;

   Define a basic health plan;

   Set up private (ARS) and public insurance companies (SENASA);

   Gradually move from a supply-driven health care delivery system to a demand-driven
    system;

   Organize Health Service Providers (PSS). RegionalHealth Service Management Units(SRS)
   would be created to manage the regional health networks and their respective hospitals,
   diagnostic centers, health centers, rural clinics and Primary Health Care Units. Regulations
    would define management and delivery models including the role and functions of governing
   bodies and organizational structures within a framework of decentralized decision-making
   and management agreements. It i s expected that within a ten-year period a number of PSS
   would be accredited as Autonomous Regional Health Network Providers integrating
   autonomous hospitals and health centers. Asset ownership, labor contracts and payroll, and
   pension benefits and liabilities would have been transferred to these Autonomous Regional
   Provider Networks;

   Change the remuneration of individual service providers from a salary to a combination of a
   basic salary and payments for results and performance while ensuring satisfaction of human
   resources;

    Promote social participation; and

   Assure quality of care by introducing accreditation and licensingpublic and private providers,
   blood banks and transfusion services, and clinical laboratories. Accreditation and licensure
   would be granted by SESPAS and would be a requirement to contract as a PSS.

                                                 5




A key objective of this APL is to support the implementation of the mandates contained in these
two health sector reform laws.

The Social Security Law classifies the population into three groups:

a) The first group consists of workers in the public and formal private sectors; employers and
    workers would pay contributions.
b) The second group is semi-subsidized and includes all independent technical and professional
    workers as well as those self-employed who earn more than the minimum wage. It i s
    expected to be financed by workers and by government subsidies.
c) The third group is independent workers who earn irregular wages below the minimum wage
    and include the poor, the unemployed and the handicapped. The government would pay their
    contribution.

As of May 2003 four sets of norms and regulations to implement the General Health Law and
three sets of norms and regulations to implement the Social Security Law have been approved.
They are:

For the General Health Law:
a) Stewardship and separationof functions in the health system
b) Licensing of health facilities
c) Health provision networks: affiliation and delivery of services
d) Human resourcesregulations (in the final review stage)

For the Social Security System:
a) Family health insurance and basic health plan
b) Control of medicines inthe basic health plan
c)  Organizationand regulationof Health Risks Administrators (ARS)
Details of the contents for each of the above regulatory provisions are given inAnnex 2.
A key objective of the proposed APL is to help the Government of the Dominican Republic
(GODR) achieve three Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by promoting affiliation of
above-mentioned third population group to the national health insurance, and making the primary
health care services and the hospitals at the secondary and tertiary levels more attractive to the
potential users and able to solve the medical problems of the patients. This would ensurethe poor
to have access to a regular source of quality health services and not to incur financial hardship for
medical reasons.

1.3     Relation of the APL to OngoingBank Projects. The proposed APL builds upon and
complements the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project (Lon. 4272-DO) and the HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Project (Lon. 7065-DO).        Since 1998, the Provincial Health Services
Project has supported significant advances in policy and institutional reforms, developed reform
instruments, trained personnel, and improved physical and technological infrastructure in the
poorest regions of the country, particularly with a major redistribute impact in the border areas
with Haiti. The project's mid-term review of October 2001 documented the accomplishments in
helping put in place a new legal framework for reforming health care organization and financing
by supporting the preparation, consensus building, and approval of the General Health and Social
Security Laws. The provincial subprojects have supported the development of new health care
organizations, financing and managerial models to create provincial integrated delivery systems

                                                  6


and signing management agreements between provincial units and health care providers. The
project also supported the development of a multi-module information system for improving
management at the central and provincial levels and hospitals. The regional hospital Jaime Mota
(Region IV) has entered into management performance agreements with SESPAS for financing
health services delivery.

The HIVIAIDS Prevention and Control Project is supporting the implementation of a
multisectoral strategy with broad participation of different segments of the society to reduce the
spread of the HIV/AIDS/TB/STI epidemic. Therefore, the health-related MDG for combating
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases has not been included inthis APL.

1.4      The Program's Components (Annex 2.a). Program components are geared to help: (i)
achieve by the year 2015 the three MDGs of reducing child mortality, improving maternalhealth,
and contributing to the eradication of extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from financial
loss due to illhealth and disability; and (ii)  supporting the implementation of the health sector
reform legislation that provides the legal, financial, organizational and managerial enabling
environment to achieve the MDGs. The three programcomponents are:

a) Supporting health services extension to achieve universal coverage. The Program aims to
    improve the health status of the economically disadvantaged population groups, especially by
    reducing child and maternal mortality. It would contribute to eradicate poverty by malung the
    already approved Basic Health Plan (BHP) accessible to the poorest and most vulnerable
   population. The main mechanism for providing access of the poor to the BHP would be
   through Government partially subsidizing their health insurance premium, thereby providing
   an incentive to enroll in the national health insurance scheme and thus removing financial
   barriers to access and protecting beneficiaries from financial loss due to ill health and
   disability. The APL would strengthen primary health services and hospitals at the secondary
   and tertiary care levels in order to assist the GODR to reach universalcoverage by improving
   their capacity to provide quality health services, especially maternal and child services to the
   target population, providing a physical and technological supportive environment and
    improving staff performance.

b) Supporting implementation of the health sector reform legislation. The Program would
   assist in implementing the mandates of the reform laws by supporting the development of
    innovative approaches; testing new models; and funding policy studies in the areas of
   financing and organizing health care, paying providers and remunerating personnel. It would
    support implementation of mandated decentralization policies that provide more autonomy
   and decision-making authority to lower administrative levels and to service providing
    institutions. These tested models and studies would provide the financial, managerial and
   institutional tools and the legal underpinningfor achieving universal health service coverage.
   They would be implementedjointly with the activities under the first component.

c) Improving Selected Essential Public Health Functions topromote and protect the health of
   the population.     In addition to supporting the health sector development addressed by
   components one and two, the Program would support SESPAS in improving two essential
   public health functions:     (i)surveillance and control of public health risks, follow up on
   disease outbreaks and risk factors to implement protection and prevention measures, and
   ensure the safety of water, air, food, waste disposal and pharmaceuticals; and (ii)
   development of policies, plans and management capacity for assuring SESPAS stewardship
    in the process of sector capacity building and coverage of the national health insurance
   system.

                                                  7




These activities would benefit the health of the whole population and would have a direct impact
on many sectors of the economy.

1.5      Program's Phasing. The proposed APL program will achieve the stated development
objectives in three phases over a period of twelve years.         Each phase would have three
components plus a component for project management, monitoring and evaluating the results of
each phase and - in the case of the first two phases - appraising the next phase of the program.
Table 1presents the summary data on the APL phases.

                                 Table 1. Phasing of APL




(BRD)
Triggers' Assessment               March2007               March 2011
Appraisal next phase                  June 2007              June 2011

Performance Evaluation by Phase. Trigger indicators for moving from Phase 1 (APL1) to
Phase 2 (APL2) and from Phase 2 to Phase 3 (APL3) are listed in Table 3 of Annex 2.a. These
triggers would be assessedprior to and reviewedduringappraisal of Phase 11andPhase 111APLs.

Trigger indicators would account for the GODR's readiness to: i)expand the geographic
coverage of the reformed insurance system; ii)scale up the provision of quality care through
certified and licensed providers; iii) assign health system management to new regonal
authorities;  iv)   expand deconcentration       and   decentralization  process to     additional
regions/provinces; and v) scale up the provision of improved public health services reflecting
lessons learned in previous phases. The triggers would be assessed and measured as part of the
monitoring and evaluation of the program and should be based on evidence that institutional
capacity building and legal conditions were sufficient to allow to move to a new phase with
minimumrisk; they would be "measures of success" when moving on to the next phase.

Compliance with disbursement schedules made as per legal agreements would also be taken into
account for moving from one phase to the other.

2. Prqject develoDment objectives (see Annex 1.a)

The project would: a) contribute to eradicate extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from
financial loss due to illhealth and disability through enrollment of the target population (people
living below the relative poverty line in regions 111, IV, VI, VI1 and VIII) in the Government
health insurance plan and to make available and promote the use of basic health services of high
quality standards; and b) support the implementation of the health sector reform legislation that
provides the legal, financial, organizational and managerial enabling environment to achieve the
MDGs relatedto health.

                                                 8


3. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1.a & Annex 2.a)

3.1    Performance Indicators directly linked to MDGs. Project performance for three
MDGs will be guided by targets and measured by indicators as shown below and described in
Annexes 1.a and 2.a for Phase 1. A fourth MDG also related to health i s the control of
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases. This MDGis not considered under this program as it is
supported by a freestanding HIV/AIDS project currently under implementation.

       Reduce Extreme Poverty and Hunger:
       Target: by 2015, protect the poorest from financial loss due to illhealth.
       Indicators: % families with health insurance; prevalence of underweight children (under
       five years of age), low birthweight, nutritional status.


   0   Improve Child Health:
       Target: by 2015, reduce under-five deaths by two thirds.
       Indicators: % underweight newborns; % children aged 12-23 months fully immunized;
       infant mortality rate; under-five mortality rate; mortality and morbidity from upper
       respiratory infections, diarrheal disease, measles.


   0   Improve Maternal Health:
       Target: by 2015, reduce by three quarters the maternal mortality rate.
       Indicators: % pregnant women with 4 prenatal visits; % of births attended by skilled
       health personnel; maternal mortality rate; contraceptive prevalence rate, total fertility rate,
       percentageof cesarean sections.

3.2    Performance Indicatorsindirectly linked to but supportive of MDGs

       Anchoring MOH's Stewardship Role: national health policies issued, consistent
       communication strategies and public information campaigns organized, monitoring and
       evaluation of sector performance;

       Promoting the Decentralization and Autonomy Process: degree of transferred decision
       makingto regional managementlevels and to service providers as measuredby autonomy
       of service providers for managing financial and human resources; number of
       management contracts signed with providers and under implementation; number of
       Boards of Directors functioning acceptably; number of institutions with changed staff
       remuneration arrangementsand associatedproductivity measures.

       Improving secondary and tertiary care facilities: physical structure rehabilitated, electro-
       mechanical and biomedical waste management equipment with adequate maintenance,
       productivity incentives developed, staff trained and performing, information systems
       operating, patient satisfaction and other quality measures implemented, referral patterns
       and fee schedules operating; and


   0   Consolidating National Essential Public Health Functions: complete and accurate
       epidemiological surveillance information produced, improved coverage and quality of
       public laboratory network, environmental friendly medical waste management systems
       operating, coordinated disaster preparedness facility installed; blood banks and cold
       storage facilities properly operating, and emergency vaccines available for timely
       provision in case of need.

                                                 9




B. Strategic Context

1. Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupportedbythe pro.iect (see Annex
1.a>

Document number: 19393-DO                Date of latest CAS discussion: June 9, 1999

The CAS discusses a number of prerequisites for poverty reduction and sustained growth in the
Dominican Republic. Among them is the need to continue supporting social development and -
stated explicitly - increasing access by poor people to the benefits of social development and
economic growth. These key points of the World Bank's assistance strategy are the essence of
the development objectives of the proposed program.

The design of the proposedprogramalso takes into account the findings and recommendations of
the 2001 Dominican Republic Poverty Report and the 2003 Dominican Republic Public
ExpendituresReview prepared by World Bank's teams.

2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy

MainSector Issues

Low but Improving Health Status. The Dominican Republic, with 8.4 million people in 1999
growing at a projected average annual rate of 1.3 percent, i s one of the more densely populated
countries in the Americas. Rural to urban migration and urbanizationof rural areas is progressing
quickly with 36% of the population living in rural areas in 1999 compared to 45% five years
earlier. Unequal distribution of wealth results in widespread poverty. Health indicators do not
compare favorably with countries of similar per capita income (US$1,910 in 1999). Infant
mortality has decreased form 42 deaths per 1,000 live births during the period 1990-95 to 34
deaths per 1,000 live births for the period 1995-2000. Still, the 2002 ENDESA survey puts the
infant mortality rate (IMR) at 31. This average IMR is still too high compared to Chile     (lo),
Costa Rica (12) or Jamaica and Panama (both at 20) and hides the large variation between urban
and rural areas and between income levels. The IMR for the poorest quintile is 67 whereas the
IMR for the richest quintile is 23. Underreportingconfounds the analysis and comparisons over
time. For example, the infant mortality rate for 1998based on reporting would be 10.6 deaths per
1,000 live births (LB) whereas the estimated average for the period 1995-2000 is 34 deaths per
1,000 LB or an underreporting factor of 69%. The management information systems
contemplated and under implementationare addressingthe underreporting issue.

The decrease in infant mortality should be applauded as a positive event. However, when taking a
historical perspective in an international context, the apparent positive event tums negative.
Duringthe five-year period 1960-65, the IMR for the DR was 118 per 1,000 live births and the
reducible gap with other Latin American and Caribbean countries was 49%. The IMR of 42 for
the five-year period 1990-95 is a sharp reduction compared to 118 in 1960-65 but the reducible
gap with other Latin American and Caribbean countries increased to 75% leaving the DR farther
behind in a comparison with other countries.

The death of a newbom during the first year of life can occur during the first 28 days after birth
(neonatal death) or between the 29" day and the first birthday (post-neonatal death).        The
distinction is important.   Neonatal deaths tend to be due to immaturity or certain inherent
congenital conditions of birth, while post-neonatal deaths tend to result from deficiencies in

                                                   10


nutrition or from infectious diseases. The ratio of neonatal deaths to post-neonatal deaths in the
DR's infant mortality has improved significantly in the past decade. Internationally, this ratio i s
about 75/25 and the DR is approaching this ratio with 70/30. The decrease in the post-neonatal
death rate indicates more favorable environmental conditions for the infants but the neonatal
death rate has remained stable at 22 for the past decade. Reducing the IMR therefore requires
initiatives to reduce the neonatal death rate and to manage its close clinical relationship with the
high matemal mortality ratio (see below).

A distinction between neonatal and post-neonatal deaths is necessaryfor two reasons: (i) better
                                                                                            to
target actions for reducingthe IMR; and (ii)health workers have a greater degree of direct control
over health outcomes during the perinatal and the neonatal periods than during the post neonatal
period when the environment plays a larger role in causing disease and unnecessary deaths. The
six clinical causes of infant deaths that account for 70 percent of all infant deaths are: intestinal
infections, respiratory problems during the perinatal period, nutritional deficiencies and anemia,
delayed intrauterine growth and immature fetus, and acute respiratory infections. Improving the
quality of prenatal checkups, of the delivery process and of postpartum care would directly
impact half of the causes of infant deaths. Programs should therefore target the perinatal and
neonatal periods while simultaneously sustaining the effort to provide infants with a safe
nurturing environment that reduces intestinal and respiratory infections, and nutritional
deficiencies.

The under-five mortality rate in 1999 was 47 deaths per 1,000 children under five, which is
double the rate of Jamaica and Panama, three times the rate of Costa Rica and four times the rate
of Chile. The ENDESA 2002 survey reports a lower figure: 38 deaths for children aged 0 - 4 or
disaggregated 31for IMR and 7 for the 1to 4 age group. Life expectancy at birthis a satisfactory
71 years (1999), but still lower than the four comparator countries used here where rates range
from 74 in Panama to 77 in Costa Rica. The illiteracy rate in the population aged more than 15
years i s high at 17'36, contributing to poor health status and levels of extreme poverty.

Slowly Decreasing Poverty. The World Bank 2001 Poverty Assessment report states that 33.8
percent of the population lives on less than U$$2 a day adjusted for purchasing power parity.
Percentagesfor earlier years are 54.9 percent in 1986 and 53.5 percent in 1992 indicating slowly
decreasing poverty.       Social indicators of poverty in the 1996 ENDESA survey showed an
inequitable variation between the lowest and highest income quintiles for infant mortality rates by
a factor of three, for child immunization rates by a factor of two, and for the prevalence of child
malnutritionby a factor of thirteen.

Still, protecting the poorest from financial loss due to ill health is an unfulfilled promise in the
country. A large segment of the population does not have any type of health insurance and out of
pocket expenditures represent more than one half of total spending in health. The richer
contribute as a percentage of their total income much less than the poor to healthcare financing
and a high proportion of families get poorer when they have to get care.

Preventable Materna1 Mortality. The ratio of matemal deaths (MMR) per 100,000 live births
as reported by SESPAS was 122 in 1999 and PAHO/WHO lists the most recent reported MMR
statistic as 80. In either case the MMR is unacceptably high as it is ten to fifteen times higher
than ratios in developed countries. The total fertility rate (TFR) in 1999 was 2.8 births per
woman, which is close to the TFR for the four-comparator countries. However 1996 data show a
variation in the TFR from 5.1 in the poorest quintile to 2.1 in the richest quintile. The MMR for
Chile and Costa Rica was one third of the figure for the DR (33 and 35 respectively) but the
MMR of the DR was close to the one in Panama (100) and in Jamaica (120). A retrospective

                                                   11



study of obstetrical deaths in the DR concluded that 93 percent of these deaths were preventable'.
These are surprising results given that internationally the DR is positioned very well in terms of
prenatal care (99% of all deliveries), giving birth in a health establishment (95%) and births
attended by skilled health staff (97%). Risk factors documented in the study are the quality of
obstetrical care in public hospitals, the behavior of attending personnel, and multiparity. The
leading cause of maternal death is toxemia (43% in 1997), a manageablecondition duringthe last
trimester of pregnancy. Design and implementation of incentives to change the behavior of
providers must be a key strategy in the success of reducingunnecessary maternal deaths.

HIV Prevalence. The Dominican Republic and Haitiaccount for 85% of all reportedHIV/AIDS
cases in the Caribbean Region. The estimated percentage of people aged 15-49 who are infected
with HIV in the DR is 2.8 percent, which i s among the highest prevalence rates in the Latin
American and Caribbean region. This problem is being addressed frontally by World Bank- and
USAIDfinanced HIV/AIDS Prevention andControl projects currently under implementation.

Low Health Care Spending. Total spending on health was estimated by the Central Bank in
May 1996 as 6.5% of the gross domestic product (GDP), which is similar to the average
percentage of GDP spending in LAC countries during the period 1990-98. Total spending was
distributed as follows: public sector 26.5 percent, private sector 72.5 percent and outside country
sources 1.O percent. The disaggregatedpublic sector spending share was 16 percent for SESPAS,
6.8 percent for IDSS, 1.4 percent for the Presidency and 2.3 percent for other public sector
entities such as other ministries and the RedCross. Disaggregated private sector spending shows:
private hospitals, clinics, and diagnostic facilities with 36 percent, households with 18.5 percent,
private insurance with 10.3 percent, and NGOs with 7.7%.

According to preliminary results from a study by the Central Bank, the average public sector
spending on health for the period 1996-1999 was 2.0% of GDP. This i s a low percentage
compared with the average public spending in the LAC Region (3.2%), or in countries of similar
per capita income such as Costa Rica (5.2%), Panama(4.9%) or Jamaica (3.2%).

The average percentage of health spending in total public spendingfor 1996-99 was 1236, and
health spending i s almost one third (3 1.6%) of total spendingfor social services. The 2002 budget
proposes 13.6% of total public spending for the public health sector.

Sources and Uses of Public Sector Funds. The national budget i s the most important source
financing, on average 64.9%, followed by the private sector with 31.4% and the balance (3.7%)
from external sources, mainly loans and donations. The budget of SESPAS comes from the
National Treasury (77.2%), households (11.2%), the Presidency (5.8%) and other external
sources (5.8%). The expenditure of IDSS is financed by payroll taxes (94.8%) as a percentage of
salaries and wages: 7.0% from the employer and 2.5% from the employee.

In terms of program spending, almost half of the funds were spent on curative care and another
one fourth on the purchase of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. Spending on health
promotion and preventive care represented only 1.1% of total public spending.             Hospitals
received 60% of SESPAS funds and rural clinics and health centers about 20%.

By expenditure category, about 70% of average public spending was for salaries and wages,
followed by medical supplies and pharmaceuticals (12.1%), materials and non-medical supplies
(6.5%) and medical equipment (5.9%).

' Dr. RobertoCerdaTorres:  "Realidad de laMortalidad Maternaen Republica Dominicana", 200I

                                                  12




Intrasectoral Fragmentation and Lack of Monitoring of the Private Health Sector. Three
entities finance and provide health services in the public sector: SESPAS, IDSS, and the Social
Security Institute for the Armed Forces and the National Police (ISSFAPOL). SESPAS' mandate
is to meet the health needs of the poor and the medical indigents estimated at about 64 percent of
the population or 5.4 million people. SESPAS provides services through 152 hospitals, 448 rural
health centers and 236 urban health centers across the eight regions of the country. The IDSS
provides health services to 530,000 regular beneficiaries and to about 100,000 temporary workers
(with contracts for less than three months) or at most 7.5 percent of the population. The IDSS has
18 hospitals, 27 policlinics and 157 physician offices. ISSFAPOL covers about two percent of
the population.

The budget of the Presidency finances most investment in plant and equipment of public health
facilities. It also operates the Essential Drugs Program (PROMESE) that initially was created to
finance and manage 410 Popular Pharmacies (Boticas Populures) that sell generic and essential
drugs at a reduced price to poor people. PROMESE has expanded its original mandate and now
procures pharmaceuticals for all public health facilities. PROMESE supplied an annual average
of US$16 million in pharmaceuticals and medical supplies between 1997 and 1999. A little more
than half of the purchases were for public hospitals, 43 percent for Popular Pharmacies, and six
percent for rural health clinics.     PROMESE has come under heavy criticism for lack of
transparency in its procurement procedures, for high administrative cost (31 percent of its
purchase cost), and for lack of quality control of products purchased. CERSS is leading the
analysis and requesting a full-fledged review with corresponding corrective actions by the
Presidency.

Almost all private sector activity is concentrated in the two largest cities: Santo Domingo and
Santiago. No reliable data are available on the number, size, composition, production or
expenditures of the private sector. For example, the telephone directory for the National District
of Santo Domingo lists 119 private clinics and hospitals. This number excludes the separately
listed 1,115 private physicianoffices and 730 dental offices that are also most likely understated.
The National Association of Private Clinics and Hospitals stated that the number of private clinics
inSanto Domingo in2001 is more than 300. There is no reliable central source of information to
confirm or modify these numbers. Some data are available on spending for private health care
services from national household surveys as mentioned above in the section on health care
financing.

An accurate description of the number, size, activities and contributions of NGOs to improving
the health status of the population suffers from two idiosyncratic problems: the very broad
definition of what is an NGO and the existence of a large number of ghost NGOs. First, an NGO
in the Dominican Republic is an organization that is private, not for profit and is not owned by
the government. Essentially, an NGO is equivalent to a nonprofit organization. They include
service providers, research institutes, educational establishments, church organizations, social
action groups, etc. Illustrating the definitional complexity is the case of the Plaza de la Salud, a
large tertiary care medical complex in central Santo Domingo built with government funds, which
i s classified in the National Health Accounts of the Central Bank as an NGO. Second, ghost
NGOs exist for the purpose of money transfers and tax evasion and provide no services except
financial benefits to the organizing members. The proposed 2002 budget includes a US$45
million subsidy for 2,051 NGOs but only about 1,000 NGOs are legally registered. The health
sector is listed with 208 NGOs and the education sector with 270. Almost half (916) of the
NGOs are included in the budget of the Presidency. The 1999 report of the Central Bank writes
that in 1996 there were 265 NGOs dedicated to health related activities of which 180 or 68 96

                                                    13


received subsidies from SESPAS. Most health NGOs are active in health promotion and
reproductive and sexual health. This number would not include NGOs with activities in the
broader social welfare area or inenvironmental sanitation. The one reliable source of information
on health related NGOs is the National Health Institute (INSALUD), which is an umbrella
organization with 76 institutional members that are formally approved and recognized by
SESPAS.

Inequitable Access to Health Care. Access to health care is inequitable with people in the
lower income quintiles and in rural areas facing financial and geographic barriers. As a result of
these barriers, the poor seek care less often. This is more pronounced for chronic illness for
which the poor are less likely to seek care on a regular basis. The infant mortality rate for the
poorest quintile is 67 infant deaths per 1,000 live births versus 23 infant deaths per 1,000 LB in
the richest quintile. The poor have more children: the total fertility rate for the lowest income
quintile is 5.1 and it i s 2.1 for the highest income quintile. Social indicators of poverty in the 1996
ENDESA survey showed an inequitable variation between the lowest and highest income
quintiles for infant mortality rates by a factor of three, for child immunization rates by a factor of
two, and for the prevalence of child malnutritionby a factor of thirteen.

The beneficiaries of IDSS have an average of five medical visits per year whereas for the
SESPAS population this number i s 1.2 visits. The low number for SESPAS may be due to
underreporting, to lack of access to ambulatory services for geographic or financial reasons, to
patients going to a private doctor's office or to a private clinic. The number of admissions to
hospitals is 68 per 1,000 people for SESPAS and 72 per 1,000 for IDSS beneficiaries. These are
normal hospital admission rates for a middle-income country. SESPAS hospitals are a major
source of emergency care as one third of all medical visits are to emergency rooms of hospitals.
This is not the case for IDSS where emergency room visits account for a normal one tenth of all
visits.

InequitableHealthCare Spending. Public sector health spending at 2% of GDP is among the
lowest inthe LAC Region yet the public sector is the largest provider of health services. Not only
are resources insufficient but also they are spent inequitably. SESPAS is assumed to provide
health services to 64 percent of the population or to 5.4 million people. Based on its average
budgetfor the years 1996-99, it had available US$36.67 per capita. IDSS, on the other hand, for
the same time period, spent US$106.67 per beneficiary. Health services provided by the two
largest public sector providers account for less than a quarter of total health care spending. Out of
pocket payments at 18.5% were higher than the SESPAS expenditures at 16% as percentages of
total health spending.

The geographic distributional inequity of public spending on health is illustrated by the fact that
more than 70 percent of the population in the three poorest health regions (N,VI and VII) is
classifiedas poor but these three regions together receive less than ten percent of the public health
budget.

Inefficient Allocation of Resources. Resources are allocated inefficiently. More than 70% of
public funds are spent on curative care and on the purchase of pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies. Spending on health promotion and preventive care represented only 1.1% of public
spending. Administration received 14% in 1999. Allocation of public funds is also heavily
skewed towards the National District that received an average of 43.5% during the 1996-99
period versus about 20 provinces that each received less than 2% each.

                                                  14


Inefficient Use of Human Resources. Human resources management is not efficient. First,
both SESPAS and IDSS have a large number of administrative workers, 35% and 43%
respectively. This may be partly explained by the patronage system of rewarding members of the
victorious political party. Second is the high percentage of physicians: about one in five workers
are doctors. However this number is misleading as physicians hold more than one job and are
double and even triple counted. There are more physicians in the IDSS than nurses and barely
more nurses than doctors in SESPAS. Fewer nurses than physicians indicate inefficiency and
lower quality care: higher paid physicians carry out tasks that should be done by lower paid
nurses, and a shortage of nurses indicates insufficient time for direct patient care activities. Third,
the ratio of SESPAS staff to population served is one worker for 127 people and for IDSS it is
one to 55.

Too many Hospital Beds. Only one third of the hospital beds of SESPAS are occupied on the
average but the average length of stay (3.2 days) i s favorable. Only half of the IDSS hospital
beds are occupied in spite of an average length of stay of five to six days that is considered high
taking into account that 30percent of hospitaladmissions are inobstetrics. These are averages for
the whole country.

A Need to Improve the Quality of Health Services. The population is not satisfied with the
quality of services offered in public facilities. The well to do patronize the private sector and the
1996 ENDESA survey showed that 26.6% percent of private sector hospital patients come from
the two lowest income quintiles. This means that some poor are willing to pay for private services
and/or that some may be treated at lower charges.

Quality in the atomized private sector is undocumented. Private hospitals tend to be small. The
largest private hospital (owned by a private university) has about 100 beds and about 80% of the
private clinics have fewer than 20 beds. This raises serious concems about technical quality
because of low volume for some procedures in small facilities. A correlation between volume
and quality has been empirically demonstrated.            The complete lack of registration, of
accreditation, of regulation, of accountability, of quality oversight, and the prevalence of solo
practice lead to a presumption of less than adequateclinical quality. Air-conditioned rooms, user-
friendly reception and waiting areas, cleanliness, smiling staff and courteous physicians are
associatedwith good quality by the general public.

A high caesarian section rate: 23% of deliveries in SESPAS facilities were managed surgically
abdominally in 2000. The IDSS caesarian section rate i s between 25 and 30 percent. WHO
guidelines state that surgical deliveries should not be more than fifteen percent of all deliveries.
Physician behavior and the practice of physicians rushing from one job to another are a major
explanatory variable. A normal delivery takes much longer than a surgical delivery. The latter
can be scheduled and done in one hour.

Deficient quality in the public sector is well documented and recognized by the government as a
major problem. Staff behavior and motivation, insufficient financial resources, irregular supply
of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, poorly maintained physical plant and equipment, water
supply and electricity interruptions are impediments to improving quality.            Good physical
amenities and good interpersonal relations offset the presumptive low clinical quality in the
private sector.

The Challenge of Implementing the Decentralization Policy.               The President signed the
General Health Law No 42-01 (LGS) on March 8, 2001 and the law No 87-01 that creates the
Dominican Social Security System (SDSS) on May 18, 2001. Both laws authorize deep and far

                                                      15


reaching reforms in organizing, financing, and managing the health sector and the social security
system. Of special importance to the health sector in general and to the proposed project in
particular are the provisions allowing the transfer of technical and administrative tasks from the
central SESPAS level to lower SESPAS levels and to SESPAS health facilities. Increased
managerial autonomy at lower levels of the service delivery system and decentralized decision-
making would address more directly the issues faced by the operating units in carrying out their
mission to provide quality medical services. The challenge is to: (i)write the norms and
regulations for implementingthese policies to complete the legal framework; (ii)make the norms
and regulations operational; (iii)transfer financial and human resources to the decentralized
levels and institutions; and (iv) break up the historical centralized power and control structure.
This will require political will, administrative expertise and a large investment in time and effort
to create and/or to strengthen the institutions to which authority has been delegated. These
institutions have heretofore been managed centrally, have not been allowed to make any
important decision and must now change their ways of conducting their business. This drastic
change in organizational culture and attitudes at all levels will take time, will happenone step at a
time and will need the patience and the longterm support of all donor agencies.

Government Strategy and Challenges

The GODR has declared health a priority. Through its Health Sector ReformProgram formulated
inthe secondhalf of the 1990s,the GODR is seelungto improve health andnutrition status of the
population, particularly the poor, by facilitating access to quality health services in an efficient
and sustainable way. The strategic thrust of the reform program is the gradual introduction into
the health sector of elements of political, administrative and financial decentralization.

Since 1997, the World Bank has financed a project2 in support of the reform program. Projects
funded by the IDB, EU, and USAID complement the World Bank-financed project. Technical
assistance i s also being provided by UN specialized agencies such as PAHONHO, UNDP,
UNICEF,among others.

3. Sector issues to be addressed bv the proiect andstrategic choices

Consistent with the recommendations in the CAS and with GODR policy, the proposed program
would assist in meeting MDGs, reforming the health system, promoting integration of public and
private services within a decentralized context, and reallocating health expenditures to basic
health care for the poor. It would do so building upon the initial work camed out with the
support of the World Bank-financed Provincial Health Services Project and with projects
supported by the IDB, EU and USAID. The GODR has embarked on a long-term process of
health reforms that require substantial political and financial support to bringit to fruition.

More specifically, the proposed project would address the following sector issuesfrontally:

a> Improve the quality of maternal and child services to help reduce the infant mortality rate, the
    under five mortality rate and the maternal mortality ratio;

b) Reduce the impoverishment effects of illhealth and disability by supporting the affiliation of
    the poor to the health insurance system;

c) Develop and implement integrated health delivery networks as mandated by law by


- Provincial Health Services Project (Report No.17199DO).

                                                 16


    strengthening decentralized regional and provincial levels for coordinating and supervising
    service delivery as a means to reachuniversal coverage of primary health care services;

    Assist in deconcentrating and decentralizing technical and management decision making to
    lower levels of government and to service delivery institutions. This assistance will require
    training managers, providing them with information for decision making, devising monetary
    and non-monetary incentives for punctuality, courtesy, timely, and quality service;

    Strengthen the stewardship role of SESPAS ensuring that human and financial resources are
    effectively decentralized, that national policy is formulated with executing parties being held
    accountable for implementing it, that essential public health functions that affect the whole
    Dominican population are in place and are being executed, that programmatic inter- and
    intrasectoral coordination takes place, and that results are monitored and deviations are acted
    upon; changing the physical and management environment of service provision that causes
    preventable maternal and infant deaths;

    Develop new remuneration modalities for physicians - and mainly for specialists - from a
    straight salary to a basic salary plus performance linked payments. This is a key incentive
    payment issue that is supported by the two new reform laws. Its implementationmay be slow
    because it will meet with resistance from many professionals who are comfortable drawing a
    salary for minimal time on the job giving them the opportunity to attend to their private
    practice; and

    Support innovative pilot projects and disseminate their results to the legislative and executive
    levels of government and to professional associations and service providing institutions.

4. Program Description and Performance Trimers for subsequent loans

Performance triggers for financing subsequent phases

The complex nature of the health sector reform agenda would be supported through a sustained,
multi-phase effort. The APL approach will allow the flexibility neededduring the implementation
of the Dominican Republic health sector reform and for the incorporation of lessons learned
duringimplementation.

Trigger indicators would account for the GODR's readiness to: i)expand the geographic
coverage of the reformed insurance system; ii)scale up the provision of quality care through
certified and licensed providers; iii) assign health system management to new regional
authorities; iv) to expand deconcentration and decentralization process to additional
regions/provinces; and v) scale up the provision of improved public health services reflecting
lessons learned in previous phases. The triggers would be assessed and measured as part of the
monitoring and evaluation of the program and should be based on evidence that institutional
capacity building and legal conditions were successful to allow to move to a new phase with
minimumrisk; they would be "measures of success" when moving on to the next phase.


C. Programand Project Description Summary
1. Praiect Components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed
cost breakdown)
The APL would implement three components in three phases. A fourth component would

                                                  17


manage implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and assess changes that would trigger the
decision to continue to the next phase or to change action for improving performance, or in the
last resort, to cancel the operation. The four components that would be implemented during the
three phases of the APL were presentedearlier in Section 1.4. Activities for the first phase project
are summarized here. A detailed description of the first phase project and a general description of
the second and thirdphase projects are presentedin Annex 2.
Component 1: Health Services Coverage Extension

The earlier Provincial Health Services Project supported the provision of primary care services to the
poorest population with emphasis on maternal and child health (MCH) in three regions (HI, IV, and
VII), in one province of Region VIII (SBnchez Ram'rez), and in one Health Area of the National
District (Santo Doming0 Centro). Phase Iof this program would: (i)complete coverage of the poor
population with a basic health plan, emphasizingMCHcare; (ii) add Region VI with the provinces of
San Juan de la Maguanaand Elias Pifia; and (iii) add the provinces of La Vega and Monseiior Nouel
to complete the coverage of Region VIII. All these regions carry the largest proportion of poor in the
country. The total population covered under Phase Iwould therefore be 2.3 million of which
about 1.7 million are under the poverty line.

A minimumof four essential criteria were used for selecting priority areas to be included under
Phase Iof the Program: 1) high proportion of poorest families; 2) health care networks in
operation or about to be completed for operation; 3) health management information systems in
place or about to be implemented; and 4) management agreements between SENASA and
providers signed. This targeting approach i s fully consistent with the strategy adopted by the
GODR to begin the implementation of the health and social security reforms over the next 10-
years in a gradual and incremental manner.

Activities that would contribute to achieve the component's objective are: (a) support extending
health care coverage in three priority regions using the national health insurance financing
mechanism to deliver a basic health plan of essential health services, particularly MCH services;
(b) strengthen the clinical problem solving capabilities of the primary healthcare units (UNAPS),
the hospitals at the secondary and tertiary care levels in five regions, improve the quality of
medical services provided, and ensure a functioning referral system among levels of care and
among networks; (c) apply national norms to improve that physical infrastructure of Regions VI
and VI11that was not covered under the first project, Le. equipping, rehabilitation and expansion
of healthcenters and hospitals at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, including investments
to strengthen the biomedical waste management systems in each facility; and (d) develop
integrated and decentralized health care networks at the regional levels as authorized by the
health sector reform legislation.

Component 2: Implementationof the healthsector reform legislation

This component has two objectives: (a) assist in building the institutions to implement the health
sector reform legislation by supporting the development of regulatory frameworks, organizational
structures, financial instruments, training programs and management information systems; and (b)
assist in providing the legal and financial enabling environment for achieving the objective of
Component I.   The legislature approved a General Health Law (LGS-42-01) and a Social Security
System Law (SDSS-87-01) that contains key policy changes. A listing of the most important
changes is presentedin Annex 2. Implementingthese policy changes requires a large investment
in building and/or strengthening institutions that heretofore have been managedcentrally and/or
have not been allowed to makeany important decision.

                                                  18


To accelerate the decentralization process the project would strengthen national, provincial and
local institutions, support budgetary transfers to provincial directorates, grant autonomy to key
health facilities and train sector leaders and health care managers. To support the implementation
of sector reforms, the project will fund technical assistance to strengthen the stewardship role of
SESPAS and the insurance management capability of SISALRIL, to transfer gradually demand
driven subsidies to the poorest population group, and to develop and implement health
management information systems.

Component 3:        Improving Selected Essential Public Health Functions to promote and
protectthe healthofthe population

This component would improve two essential public health functions that would benefit the
health of the whole population and would have a direct impact on many sectors of the economy:
a) epidemiological health surveillance and control of risks in public health by strengthening the
information system for epidemiological surveillance, the capacity and quality control of the
National Public Health Laboratory, the cold storage facilities (cold chain), establishing a national
pharmacological surveillance system; and relocation and strengthening of the Forensic Pathology
Department; and b) development of policies, plans and management capacity for assuring
SESPAS stewardship by supporting the design of a 10-Year National Strategic Plan for ensuring
a gradual build up and consolidation of the National Health System and the Social Security
System. This Plan would become a navigation chart for the National Health Council (NHC) for
the next 10 years, and i s expected to define coordination mechanisms for managing international
donor support. Support would also be provided for carrying out policy and operational studies,
including one focusing of the training of physicians, nurses, andother health personnel.

Component4: ProjectManagementandImpactAppraisalof Next Phases

This component would support project management, including the strengthening of the
monitoring and impact evaluation system to measurethe results achieved during implementation.
Trigger indicators would used to decide on recommending financing each one of the next two
phases of the program, and appraise the technical, financial and institutional aspects of each
phase.

Monitoringand EvaluationArrangements. The project would finance all efforts required to
appropriately monitor and evaluate project outputs, outcomes and impact. Project monitoring
would depend to a large extent on the envisaged Health Management and Information System
(HMIS). Hence, priority would be given to the implementation of the HMIS during the early
stages of the project with the goal of completing the implementation and test phase within the
first year of the project. InPhases Iand IIof the project, efforts would concentrate on regions and
provinces characterized by high levels of poverty and poor health outcomes. In order to ensure
that the project is achieving the objective of closing the nation-wide poverty and health gaps, the
project would finance national demographic and health surveys in each of the project phases. The
annual evaluation of the project would be outsourced to a non-governmental organization or
academic institution.

Investment Financing. In each phase, the Program would finance health facilities rehabilitation
and expansion, electro-mechanical and biomedical waste management equipment, medical
supplies, vehicles, systems development (eg., management and financial information systems,
quality assurance systems), training and technical assistance.

                                                 19


                  Table 2: EstimatedPhase1Project Costs by Component




Front-endfee                                               0.30         0.7%    1    0.30         1Yo
Total FinancineReauired                                   42.7 1    II100.0% I       30.0    I   100.0%

2. Key policy andinstitutionalreformssupportedbythe project

The development objectives of the proposed project are in line with health sector reform
principles and health policies enunciated in the health and social security laws. Major reforms
sought include:
    0   Stronger stewardship role of the central level SESPAS with delegated technical and
        administrative functions to the regions, provinces, municipalities and service providers;
    0   Attitudinal and behavioral changes in managers and service providing personnel by
        fostering performance based incentives and pride in caring for the disenfranchised and
        poor;
    0   Deconcentrated and decentralized regional and provincial levels with more autonomy for
        decision makingat the service provider level;
    0   Redirecting the flow of resources to support decentralizing decisions on financial and
        human resources;
    0   Well-defined organizational structures with clearly understood functions.
3. Benefitsandtarget population
TargetPopulation. The proposedprogramwould unwaveringly and insistently focus on gains in
the health status of the poorest population groups located in the poorest regions of the country
(most of them bordering Haiti): more accessible quality services, reducing preventable child and
maternal deaths, and more courteous and humane treatment with less waiting time in clean and
more comfortable waiting areas. The population covered under the Phase IProject would be 2.3
million (28% of the total population) of which about 1.7 million are under the poverty line.

Expected systemic benefits over the medium term are:


    0   Increased degree of accountability and financial responsibility by shifting from
        hierarchical inspection to a supervision approach that is based on monitoring and
        economic incentives embedded inresults-basedmanagement agreements;
    0   Changing health care delivery from a supply driven model to a demand driven model;
    0   Well defined regulatory frameworks that support management contracts for managing
        and supervising health services delivery by institutions with a larger degree of managerial
        autonomy; and
    e   A public sector health network that remunerates its personnel partly with financial

                                                  20


          incentives for performance and results and that separates the functions of regulating and
          monitoring from the functions of providinghealthcare services.

4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements
Project ImplementationPeriod: 4 years

Executing agencies: Responsibility for project implementation would rest in CERSS, with the
participation of SESPAS as the sector steward, SISALRIL, as the regulatory and supervisory
entity of the insurance and provision of health services, and SENASA as the Public National
Health Insurance agency. The CERSS's Project Coordination Unit (CERSSPCU) would provide
technical, administrative and financial support to the implementingagencies and entities.

CERSSPCU. Headed by a Coordinator and staffed with professional and support personnel,
would be responsible for providing technical, administrative and financial support to all project
activities, including the maintenance of accounting records, processing disbursements,
maintaining administrative records, processing procurement contracts for goods and services, and
the carrying out of related activities. This unit would review all contracts and make payments for
activities related to the project.

SESPAS. The Modemization and Institutional Development Unit (UMDI) of SESPAS,
composed of high level officials, has the mission of coordinating efforts and resources from
different sources to enable SESPAS to meet its new role in the health system, as mandatedby the
new legal framework of the health sector. UMDIwith CERSSPCU technical and administrative
and financial support would prepare annual operations plans (POA) to strengthen capacity
building and effective institutional development of SESPAS so it can perform as steward,
supervisor and evaluator of the new health system. SESPAS would assign high level officers to
plan and execute with CERSSPCU support, day to day activities of project components for the
strengthening of health care networks and in particular for the carrying out its essential public
health functions: epidemiological surveillance, national network of laboratories, disaster
preparedness and its related functions of cold storage facilities and blood banks.

With CERSSPCU administrative support and project resources, UMDVSESPAS would
strengthen the organizational structures and the stewardship role of SESPAS as defined in the
regulatory guidelines on stewardship and separation of functions (see annex 2). Also
UMDWSESAPAS would support improving managerial functions of the regional, provincial and
municipal levels to implement regulations on organization, structure and functioning of the health
network (see annex 2). UMDYSESPAS would help to redirect the flows of human and financial
resources as well as management information to ensure autonomous management of public
service networks. As the deconcentration and the separation of the stewardship and financing
roles from the provision of health services evolves, UMDI, with project support would strengthen
SESPAS institutional capacity to monitor and supervise policies and regulations as implemented
through Components 1and 2.

SISALRIL. As mandated under the Social Security Law (L87-OI), SISALRIL was established in
2002 as an autonomous entity representing GODR interests and is responsible for the protection
of affiliates, licensing and supervision of ARS, payments to the PSS and monitoring the financial
solvency of SENASA and the ARS. As such, SISALRIL would have a direct participation and
responsibility in the execution of Components 1and 2, for the formulation and implementation of
health policies and regulations, and in the instrumentation and pilot testing of new insurance and
financing models developed with project support.

                                                 21


This would strengthen the supervisory and regulatory role of SISALRIL, supporting at the same
time the implementation at the national level of managerial instruments developed under the
Provincial Health Services Project, including management and clinical information systems.
CERSSPCU would assist SISALRIL in the transferring of the know-how developed and pilot
testedunder the Provincial Health Services Project.

SENASA. This recently created institution is the public ensure responsible for, inter alia,
administering the health risks of its affiliates with efficiency, equity and effectiveness, ensuring
that services are provided with quality, opportunity and satisfaction, and contracting and paying
new health providers according to conditions established in the Social Security Law. As such,
SENASA, under the supervision of SISALRIL, and with CERSSPCUsupport, would participate
in implementing components 1 and 2 and developing pilot tests on insurance and financing
models.

PhaseI-Project ImplementationAgreements. For the implementationof project activities, the
Borrower will cause inter institutional participation and performance agreements to be signed
between CERSS and all participating agencies (SESPAS) and entities (SISALRIL, SENASA) on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank. The purpose of these inter-institutional
participation agreements and arrangements is to guarantee the allocation and disbursement of
project funds from the CERSSPCU to the participating agencies and entities upon proof of
compliance with obligations and conditionalities that are critical to the health care services
coverage extension and the appropriate implementation of the reform legislation.              These
participation agreements and arrangements would also specify the legal authority of the persons
signing, the scope and duration of the agreement, responsibilities agreed as part of approved
project operational plans, the total amount of financing, the allocation of funds on the basis of
meeting accepted obligations, correspondence with the investment plan and on the appropriate
supervisory and monitoring means to evaluate performance. Agreements and arrangements
would also specify objectives to be met, indicators to verify that objectives are met, and means of
verification. Also specified would be the duration, review periods, possible future modifications
or changes, reasons for termination or suspension, conflict resolution methods and penalties for
not complying with the signed agreement.

Particular attention would be placed during implementation to streamlining and close
coordination between CERSSPCU and the participating agencies and entities in staying with
World Bank's procedureson the use of funds from the Special Account.

The Borrower would use management agreements to be subscribed between the SENASA and
other ARSs and the Regional Health Services Networks or the PSS according to valid and current
rules and regulations. Under these agreements, the service providers would commit to provide
quality health care services to the beneficiary population in a timely, effective and efficient
manner according to specifications contained in the social security law and its regulatory
guidelines.

Donor Coordination.The five largest donor agencies operating in the Dominican health sector
are USAID, IDB, EU, specialized UNAgencies, and the World Bank (See Table 1 in Annex 2.C).
The PCU of CERSS manages the implementation of World Bank and JDB financed projects. In
addition PCU, as part of its coordinating role for health sector reform, shares methodologies and
experiences with the coordinating units of the USAID and EU projects that are administered by
SESPAS with assistance from international management consultancy firms. UNagencies (UNDP
and PAHO/WHO) participate in the implementation of the ongoing Provincial Health Services
Project and the HIV/AJDS Prevention and Control Project and will also participate in the

                                                22



implementation of this project. Nonetheless concerns have been expressed by some of the donor
agencies that donor coordination should be strengthenedwithin and among regions of the country
and that all donors should align their support behind the ambitious health sector reform program
especially because the major donors tend to focus their main activities in different geographic
areas. Therefore the government -following the example of the education sector - i s preparing a
IO-year Development Plan for Health Sector Reform as a management tool to coordinate donor
strategies and resources and to reduce duplication of efforts. The 10-year Plan would spell out
the respective areas of responsibility for each donor, the willingness of each donor to accept that
responsibility, for how long, under what conditions, with what kind and size of financial support
(with or without cost sharing), and the commitment to coordinate with other donors.

D: Program Rationale

1. Project alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

N o project alternative.     The 2001 reform laws challenge the health sector to implement
organizational, financial, and health care delivery reforms, while at the same time extending the
coverage and raising the quality of health services for the poor.           World Bank financial
participation in supporting the reform process is important but not a critical factor. The GODR
and the World Bank agree that the value added of the loan and the World Bank involvement
would be to assist in operationalizing the different aspects of the reform laws, setting in place a
new institutional framework, and in developing the needed instruments such as implementing
rules and regulations and monitoring systems. The proposed APL is using the experience from
the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project in order to ensure the timely availability of the
neededtechnical and financial support to implement the complex reforms in the mediumterm and
to improve the health status of the poor.

Standard investment operation alternative. The GODR and the World Bank team discussed
the most appropriate lending instrument for supporting the health sector reforms. The standard
investment lending approach was discarded in favor of utilizing the APL approach to support the
proposed project for the following reasons: (i)the long term horizon for meeting the reform
program's objectives; (ii)the existence of a sound sector reform program developed by the
GODR and the a 10-year Development Plan under preparation; and (iii)       the GODR's decision to
pilot test new institutional arrangements and instruments not yet fully developed and evaluated
because of the level of complexity of the contemplated reforms. The APL would support the
GODR's incremental approach to the reform of the health sector, while developing the long-term
political and institutionalcommitment to the reformprocess.

A project with a national scope for the provision of health services. This alternative was
rejected because it would limit the potential to have a positive impact on the poorest population
group living the regions bordering Haiti that have limited access to quality health services.
Selection of areas other than the ones selected for the Phase Iof the program would have created
multiple demands and dissipate the efforts and resources that could be otherwise be allocated to
the selected regions. In addition, the approach selected is fully consistent with the gradual and
incremental strategy adopted by the GODR for implementing the health and social security
reforms over the next IO-years.

                                                    23


2. Ma.ior related proiects financed by the Bank andfor other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)

      Sector issue              Project                     Latest   ipervision (Form 590) Ratings
                                                                 (Bs  &-financed projects only)
 Bank-financed                                   Implementation       Development Objective (DO)
                                                 Progress(IP)
 Health status           Provincial Health        S                   The objectives of the Provincial Health
 improvement             Services Project                             Services Project are to: (I) assist in the
                         (Ln.4272-DO)                                 expansion of health care coverage to
                                                                      reach the poorest population groups,
                                                                      focusing on mother and child health care;
                                                                      (ii) inimprovingthequalityof
                                                                          assist
                                                                      health care services already provided to
                                                                      the poor; (iii) in strengthening
                                                                                     assist
                                                                      policy-making and management capacity
                                                                      of provincial health units; and (iv) assist
                                                                      infostering community participation in
                                                                      the health system.

 HIV/AIDS                HIV/AIDS                 S                   This project is assisting the Government
                         Prevention and                               of the Dominican Republic (GODR) in
                         Control (Ln.7065-                            curbing the spreadof the Human
                         DO)                                          Immune-deficiency (HIV) epidemic
                                                                      through the scaling up of programs and
                                                                      activities targeted to high-risk groups;
                                                                      expanding awarenessabout
                                                                      HIVIAcquired Immune-deficiency
                                                                      Syndrome (AIDS) among the general
                                                                      population; and strengthening
                                                                      institutional capacity to ensure the
                                                                      effectiveness and sustainability of the
                                                                      effort.

 Other development                                                    USAID, IDB and EUare the other three
 agencies                                                             large donor agencies (See Annex 2.C)
 Health Sector           European Union           S
 Program

 RedSalud                USAID                                        The Government is preparing a 10-year
                                                                      Development Plan for Health Sector
                                                                      Reform as a management tool to align the
 Health Sector           IDB Project              S                   support of each development agency and
 Modernization                                                        to minimize duplication o f resources and
                                                                      efforts.
  IP/DORatings: HS (Hi   ly Satisfactory), S (Salactory), U (Unsatisf ,tory),HU(Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposedProgram design:

Program design and content are benefiting from the experience with ongoing operations financed
by the WB (Provincial Health Services Project) and other donor agencies (e+, LDB, USAIDS,
EU). Key lessons incorporated in project design are: (i)project objectives and scope are linked
to a clear legal and policy framework; (ii)strong government and stakeholder commitment at
different levels of the sector has been obtained; (iii)      financing of critical investments to improve
the quality and effectiveness of health services are linked to the implementation of policy and
institutional reforms; (iv) the project would support systems and human resourcesdevelopment to

                                                  24


improve decision-making and management capacity of sectoral institutions; (v) adequate project
monitoring and impact evaluation arrangements have been developed to allow adjustments to be
made in project design and implementation arrangements during the life of the project; and (vi)
strong national teams need to established to ensure the long-term sustainability of the reform
effort.

During its first three years of implementation the ongoing World Bank project did not have the
legislative support that now exists for this proposed project. Major reform initiatives were
therefore slowed down as the executive level was hamstrung by outdated health policies and the
lack of a strong legal foundation. In the early years of implementing the ongoing World Bank
project - and the difficulties faced by the IDB project in modernizing the health sector - it
became evident that substantial progress needed to be made on the policy and legal levels. This
support became a reality in 2001 with the enactment of the General Health Law and of the Social
Security Law. The new legal environment created by these two laws provides the legal support
enabling sector and institutional reforms. The proposed program i s taking full advantage of the
reform principles in the new health law and social security law. The emphasis of the two laws on
decentralized decision making, deconcentrating technical and administrative functions, and
gradually moving from a supply-driven health care delivery system to a demand-driven system
supports the health services delivery strategy of creating integrated health networks that target the
poorest segments of the population.


The two new laws are also an encouraging sign that the GODR is committed both to protecting
the environment and to reducing the risks posed by the improper management of medical waste.
The laws provide a new framework for managing infectious and other medical waste that poses
health risks to patients and health care staff, as well as to people who are exposed to such waste
outside health facilities. The proposed support activities related to the handling of medical waste
build on the WB-financed Provincial Health Services Project, and the recommendations in the
assessment of medical care waste handling and disposal conducted under the HIV/AIDS
Preventionand Control Project (See Annex 2.B).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
There is strong and convincing evidence of borrower commitment and ownership, as follows:

          A letter was sent by the GODR to Mr.James W. Wolfensohn, President, World Bank,
          dated April 2,2003 defining the policy framework for the proposed APL.
          A letter was sent by the Technical Secretary of the Presidency and by the Health
          Secretary in October 2001 requesting follow up support for implementing the health
          sector reform activities.
          The two laws passed in March and May 2001 provide the legal underpinnings for the
          proposed sector reforms.
          Firmand satisfactory agreements were reached duringthe preparation missions held in
          June, 2002, November 2002, and March 2003; i.e. agreement with the Government on
          an outline of the design of a health sector reform support program; agreement on the
          preferred lending instrument to be an APL confirming the PCD review meetingdecision
          held in April 2002; agreement on a program that would consist of three four-year phases
          over the period 2003-2016; agreement on a set of performance triggers, including
          MDGs, to be evaluated at the end of the first and second phases and that achieving the
          agreedupon performance would be a condition of financing the next phase.

                                                   25


5. Value added of Bank surmort to this APL Program

The World Bank's value-added to the proposed program includes experience with APL
Programs, performance-based, and investment lending, as well as international experience and
expertise on health reform program design and implementation. World Bank involvement in the
Dominican Republic has already been a major conduit for exchange of regional and global
experience and exposureto international best practices that have helped shape the reformprocess.
Inaddition, World Bank involvement would provide oversight on the use of funds, consistent
with its procurement and disbursement norms and guidelines. Moreover, the World Bank team
and specialized consultants would provide technical assistance during program implementation
and facilitate the identification of adjustmentsto the design of the programdesign if necessary.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis

1. Economic(See Annex 4):

[x] Cost benefit           NPV=US$;ERR=%
[XI effectiveness
   Cost
[ ] Other(specify)

The GODR has placed improving individual health services and the protection of public health as
a high priority relative to other aspects of its development agenda. Having done so, the economic
returnto the design and level of interventions proposedunder the project are demonstrably high;
with cost-benefit ratios under a "most likely" scenario of national income growth, population
growth, reduction in mortality among selectedtarget groups (mothers and infants) estimated at 1:
6.6 if only the costs of interventions in the APLl Regions are accounted for; and 1: 4.0 if the
entire cost of APL1 is accounted for. (Annex 4).

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex5)
NPV=US$million; FRR=%
The improvements introduced through the project appear to be financially sustainable. Overall,
incremental non-personnel post project costs would represent 1.6% of the 2003 health sector
budget and 5.5% of the 2003 non personnel health sector budget. The Regions being targeted for
the initial phase of the APL are among the poorest and worst served in the country at present.
Incremental non-personnel costs would represent 5% of the 2003 budget for these regions and
17% of the non-personnel budget fort he regions. This large increase would representa neededre-
allocation of resources towards the poor, and would still, from a macro point of view, be
sustainable.

3. Technical

Project design builds upon the achievements of the ongoing Provincial Health Services and the
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Projects and other projects supported by other donor agencies,
as well as on the findings and recommendations of technical studies and evaluations of the
current health sector reform process. As a result, the proposed design fit local conditions, needs,
priorities and respond to sustainability issues. Inaddition, recent studies and ENDESA data were
used as the basis for identifying key health problems (e.g., maternal and child health), and
recommendedapproachesto solve them.

Overall, the project is technically justified on the basis of the importance of the problems it

                                                  26


addresses, the cost-effectiveness of the interventions to be delivered in project areas, their
affordability, and the political consensus on the need for fully implementing the mandates of the
health and social security laws in order to reform health care organization and financing in the
country.

4. Institutional

4.1 Executing Agencies. The CERSSPCU as well as the participating agencies and entities have
been involved and managed projects financed by international donors, including the World Bank,
since the mid-1990s. Lessons learned from the experience have been incorporated in project design.
Strong and experienced technical and administrative teams in the participating agencies and entities
would be responsiblefor managingproject implementation.

4.2 Project Management. Recent assessments carried out during project preparation found
administrative and financial management of the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project
satisfactory. The same technical and administrative teams would be in charge of supporting
project implementation.

4.3 Procurement Issues. Procurement under the project would be centered in the CERSSPCU,
for equipment, goods, works and consultants services financed out of World Bank loan proceeds.
The most recent Procurement Capacity Assessment Review rated the PCU as Average Risk;
therefore the CERSSPCU will observe the proposed thresholds for the project.                   The
CERSSPCU would be responsible for upstream, procurement-related activities, including
preparing and reviewing procurement plans, coordinating procurement reviews, and preparing
reports on compliance and prior review activities.        Specific guidelines for the solicitation,
evaluation, awards, and contracting processes for the acquisition of goods and services are
contained in the Operations Manual.

Procurement would be managed on the basis of annual procurement plans that would correspond
to the annual work program. The World Bank would approve both the annual work program and
the corresponding procurement plan. The first year's work program and procurement plan were
agreedat appraisal.

The country's Essential Drugs Program (Programa de Medicamentos Esenciales-PROMESE) has
been transformed into a Logistic Support Center (Central de Apoyo Logistico-CAL). As a result
of recent legislation, all purchase of medical supplies and pharmaceuticals for the public sector
institutions must be made through CAL. However, bidding procedures for any procurement
financed with bilateral and multilateral institutions would be carried out according to the norms of
those institutions.

The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) will assist the project in procurement
activities as it has done so for the Provincial Health Services Project (Loan 4272-DO). The
government will assume the costs of the administrative fees charged by UNDP from its own
resources. In addition, GODR is exploring with UNDP a bridge financing arrangement for
project startup activities prior to loan effectiveness (as informed by the GODR team during
negotiations, the possible bridge financing would be reimbursed by Borrower with its own
funds). PAHOWHO would continue to support the GODR in planning, procuring vaccines and
other medical supplies, and in undertaking immunization campaigns under the project

Key elements of the procurement assessment made for the project are included in Annex 6.

                                               27




4.4   Financial Management Issues. Accounting and financial management for the project
would be the responsibility of the CERSSPCU. This unit would also be the repository for all
other project recording, accounting and reporting. Retroactive financing for eligible expenditures
up to US$3.0 million would be provided from appraisal to loan signing. Procurement audits
would be performed at the same time as financial audits.

Due to the experience of the CERSSPCU with SOE-based disbursement procedures under the
Provincial Health Services Project and the HN/AIDS Prevention and Control Project, traditional
disbursement methods would be used to draw down funds from the loan and Financial
Management Reports (FMRs) would be used to monitor project implementation on a quarterly
basis.

The CERSS/PCU will be in-charge of maintaining, operating and reporting on the Special
Account. The CERSSPCU will also operate a Program Account for the purpose of receiving
counterpart funds from the government as well as a transitory account for funds disbursed from
the Special Account for the Banks share of eligible expenditures for which the CERSSPCU is
responsible. Similarly each Program Implementation Units (PIU) at participating agencies and
entities would also operate their own Program Accounts for the purpose of receiving counterpart
funds, and Special Account funds as payment to supplier come due for the World Banks share of
eligible expenditures. All ProgramAccounts would be opened at the Banco de Reservas.

Special Account. The PCU would establish a Special Account in US$, at the GORD's Central
Bank. The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the loan agreement.
Under no circumstances may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of
expenditures corresponding to the counterpart funds. Transfers from the Special Account to other
project bank accounts would only be Dermitted to meet eligible expenditures for a limited ueriod
of no more than 30 days.


Audit compliance. According to World Bank records for the Provincial Health Services Project,
2000 and 2001, audit reports have usually come on time and are acceptable. However, the audit
reports have both had qualified opinions due to issues regarding the commingling of counterpart,
loan funds, and IDB funds. This issue has been discussed at length with the CERSSRCU and
they have agreedto implement measures to ensure that all funds are accounted for and maintained
separately.

5. Environmental                 EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)

5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP
preparation (including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and
their treatmentemergingfrom this analysis. The ongoingProvincial HealthServices have
contributed to the improvement in healthcare waste management in the country, including: (a)
assessments of medical waste management practices in health facilities; (b) purchase of
incinerators and other equipment in the largest hospitals of the country; (c) training of health
facilities staff in biomedical waste management; and (d) design and updating of environmental
norms and guidelines. The proposed project would build upon and expand the scope of activities
supported under ongoing projects in order to improve biomedical waste management processes
and practices in the health systems.

                                                   28


As done with the support of the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project, resources would be
allocated under Component Ito assist participating health facilities in project areas, as needed, in
the: (i)undertaking of assessment of medical care waste handling and disposal; (ii)updating of
manual to address proper handling and disposal of medical wastes; (iii)rehabilitation of
infrastructure and the installation of equipment in the main local hospitals for the disposal of
medical wastes; and (iv) training of health personnel in the application of standards to protect
patients, health workers, and the community.


5.2 What are the main features of the EMPand are they adequate? The project would
have a beneficial impact on the environment in several ways.            The project would support
substantial improvements in the handling of biomedical waste inparticipating health facilities. To
this end, the project under Component Iwould finance related civil works, equipment, materials,
training and operating costs. The project would also have a favorable environmental impact
through the rehabilitation of health facilities, where malfunctioning or inoperative basic systems
for water, electricity and air conditioning will be repaired andor replaced. This is expected to
improve water quality and sanitation, and reduce environmental pollution. Technical assistance
will be provided to the local govemments of each participating locality in order to improve the
disposal of residual waste, without any riskto their staff or to the environment.
Environmental construction and management norms for health facilities, including internal waste
management, personnel health and safety provisions for the handling and disposal of biological
waste and operation of equipment will be part of the Operations Manual for the project.


5.3 For Category A andB projects, timeline and status of EA:

       Date of receipt of final draft: May 7,2003

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and
(b) draft E A report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management
plan? Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were
consulted?

Project objectives, scope and proposed investments, including those related to improvements in
biomedical waste management have been discussed among the different stakeholders who are
part of the National Health Council. This includes key public, private and non-governmental
agenciesand institutions operating inthe health sector of the Dominican Republic.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the
project on the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the
EMP? The Operations Manual for the proposed project would include environmental guidelines
for the construction of health facilities, guidelines and framework in the event of any resettlement
caused by the project, and norms and guidelines for the proper biomedical waste management in
the participating health units. Bidding documents for civil works would also include related
provisions. The compliance with these provisions would be monitored as part of supervision
activities in the selectedfacilities.

The environmental guidelines in the Operations Manual would refer to: (a) biomedical waste
management and disposal, including segregation of waste; (b) personnel health and safety
provisions for the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes; and (c) environmental guidelines to
be included in the bidding documents for civil works.           It would also include World Bank

                                                  29


guidelines and framework in the event of any resettlement caused by the project, alongside with
guidelines for small construction works.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to project objectives, and specify the project's
socia1development outcomes
The main social development issues related to the proposed project refer to the inequality in
access to health services, inequality of health status among different population groups and
between urban and rural regions, high child and maternal mortality rates for the country as a
whole, and the impoverishment impact of illhealth and disability among the poor uninsured
population. The main sector issues section flagged the low but improving health status, the
slowly decreasing poverty, the preventable maternal mortality, HIV prevalence, inequitable
access to health care, low and inequitable health care spending, and the need to improve the
quality of health services.

To help address the above issues, project design is geared to:         i)expandthe populationand
geographic coverage of the reformed insurance system; ii)scale up the provision of quality care
through certified and licensed providers, particularly to improve child and maternal health; iii)
assign health system management to new regional authorities; iv) to expand deconcentration and
decentralization process to additional regions/provinces; and v) scale up the provision of
improvedpublic health services reflectinglessons learned inprevious phases.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?
         a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:

Different public, private and non-governmental stakeholders who are part of the National Health
Council actively participated in the design of project related activities, as well as in the design of
macro-sectoral reform and processes. As such, key stakeholders were consulted regarding both
the pertinence of the programand the willingness to participate duringall the stages of the project
with positive responses.

         b. Other key stakeholders:

Regional and provincial health authorities in selected areas to be covered under Phase Iof the
APL were also consulted and involved in the preparation of the project. The participatory
activities initiated during preparation would continue during implementation, particularly to
inform and mobilize the beneficiaries and their representatives at the national, regional and
provincial levels, in participating health facilities, and with the Presidential and Congressional
candidates for the elections to be held in2004.

As noted above, special emphasis would be placed during project implementation to develop
mechanisms to strengthen international donor coordination.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborations with NGOs or other civil
society organizations?
The National Health Council is the forum where all the key stakeholders in the Dominican health
sector participate, discuss and agree on the major decisions related to the health sector reform
process.

                                                   30


  6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its
  social development outcomes?
  The proposed project is building upon existing arrangements that had been put in place since
  1996 with the support of the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project and more recently with
  the support of the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project. This allows active participation
  under the National HealthCouncil of key sectoral stakeholders.

  6.5 How will projectmonitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
  As defined in Tables 3 and 4 of Annex 2, specific triggers and performance indicators would
  allow monitoring in terms of social development outcomes. Triggers and performance indicators
  would respectively be assessedby December 2007 and by December 2012.

  7. Safeguard Policies:


[ Policy
  7.1 Are any of the safeguard policies triggered by the project?                                      I
           EnvironmentalAssessment (OD 4.01)
           Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)
           Forestry (OP 4.36)
           Pest Management (OP 4.09)
           Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
           Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20)
           Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)
           Safety of DamsLOP4.37')
           Projects on InternationalWaterways LOP 7.50)
           Projects inDisputed Areas (OP 7.60)

  7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
  policies:

  As has been done on the ongoing projects, resources have been allocated under the project to
  finance improvements in the biomedical waste management in the different participating
  institutions, including equipment purchase, training of personnel and development of guidelines
  and internal norms. Also, please see 5.5 above.

  F: Sustainability andRisks
  1. Sustainability
  The project would be sustainable because it is anchored in the new laws for reforming the health
  sector and therefore has the support at the highest political levels. These laws were prepared,
  reviewed, and approved after an extensive participatory process in the health sector. Major
  sectoral stakeholders have been involved in project preparation and would participate in project
  implementationassuring country ownership.

  GORD has demonstrated strong and increasing budgetary commitment to the reform process.
 The GODR top priority in the health sector is to extend health insurance coverage over a 10-year
  period. World Bank financial participation represents only a fraction of the health reform effort.
  Inaddition, as the implementationof the health insurance reform proceeds inthe upcomingyears,
  the GODR envisions the gradual conversion of budgetary transfers to health facilities on the basis
  of historical budgets into transfers for financing the affiliation of the subsidized population. This
  conversion, along with the allocation of additional resources, would help ensure the long-term

                                                     31


sustainability of the reform effort.      Productivity and efficiency gains expected to be achieved
through the project would contribute in the medium term to reduce the modest fiscal impact of
project investments. Also, the strengthening and consolidation of sectoral institutions (e.g.,
SESPAS, SISALRIL, SENASA) would ensure a sustainable health insurance system in the
Dominican Republic.


2. CriticalRisks:
                      Risk                             Rating                   RiskMinimizingMeasures
    FromOutputs to Objective
    Insufficient capacity to implement        S                        Technical assistance will be part o f the
    complex technical and politically                                 package of services financed under the
    difficult reforms, particularly at the                             project.
    regional and provincial level.                                     Local agencies will be prepared for the
                                                                       transition to the new system.
                                                                       Information, communication and education
                                                                      campaigns, as well as consensus building
                                                                       initiatives, would be supported involving key
                                                                       sectoral stakeholders.
    Political and budgetary commitment        S                        The adoption o f the reform laws was based
    to the program not preserved over                                  on a strong commitment from different
    time, particularly during changes of                               stakeholders and political authorities from
    Administration and due to fiscal                                   different parties.
    problems.                                                          Support would be provided to develop new
                                                                       health care financing and resource allocation
                                                                      mechanisms to gradually move from
                                                                       financing the supply of health services to
                                                                      financing demand.


    FromComponentsto Outputs
    Limited progress in advancing the                                 Worked closely with political and economic
    decentralization of the entire public                             authorities to ensure that health sector
    sector apparatus, delaying the reforms                            reforms are supported by public sector
    inthe public health sector.                                       reforms.
    Insufficient capacity at the provincial                           Conduct workshops and seminars to develop
    level to meet fiduciary requirements                              local capacity.
    regarding procurement and financial
    management.

    OverallRisk Rating:                       S
        Risk Rating- H (High Risk), S (Substa ial Risk),M(Modest Risk: \I (Negligible or Low Risk)

3. PossibleControversial Aspects

G.Main LoanConditions

1.1NegotiationConditions

The Govemment providedby appraisal the following documents:
        Normative Guidelines for Regulating the General Health Law.
   0    Copy of the Rules Goveming the National Social Security Council
   0    Copy of the Rules Goveming the National Health Council

                                                32



         Copy of the Rules and Regulations governing the Stewardship os SESPAS and the
         Separation of Functions of the National Health System
         Copy of the Rules and Regulationsfor Provision of Health Services Network;
         Copy of the Rules and Regulations governingthe Family Health Insurance Scheme.        '


         Alternative Basic Health Plans and their associated costs.
         General Guidelines for LicensingHealth Care Facilities and Services
         Letter of Development Policy drafted by GODR.
         Model Management Agreement to be signed between SENASA and the Health Services
         Network, approved by the relevant national authorities (the first agreement was signed on
         May 9, 2003 between SENASA and the health providers in Region IV).
         Submission of the FMR format to be used by PCU for reporting purposes.

1.2 EffectivenessConditions

Loan effectiveness conditions are: (i) adoption by the Government of an Operations Manual
satisfactory to the World Band; and (ii) submission of a model Inter-Institutional Participation
Agreements.

The following Financial Management actions are also conditions for project effectiveness: (i)
open Special Account at the Central Bank, and (ii)the first deposit to the Program Account of
counterpart funds in the amount of US$l.5 million has been made.

2. Other
    Implementationof the project in conformance with an Operations Manual
    Maintenance of the PCU acceptable to the Bank
    Timely allocation of counterpart funds

H. Readinessfor Implementation
 [ ] 1. a) the engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
[XI1. b) Not applicable
[XI2. The procurementdocuments for the first year's activities are completeandready for the
start of project implementation.
[XI3. The Project ImplementationPlan hasbeenappraised andfound to berealistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lackingandare discussed under loanconditions (Section G):

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies
I.TheprojectisexpectedtocomplywithallapplicableBankpolicies.

                                                          &W/,
                                                            Ana-Maria Amagada, SMUDirect%
                                                          -
                                    C x n e D.hsbey, CMU Director

         33




[this pageleft blank]

                                                       34




                                                  Annex l a
                        Dominican Health Sector Reform Support Program

                                        Project Design Summary
Note: if not otherwise indicated:
     ... Indicators refer to the target population of Phase Iof the Program, the people living inregions
         111,IV, VI, VI1and VIII;
         Baseline information refers to the year 2002 and targets to the year 2007
         "*" Indicates baseline data that are either outdated and/or of questionable quality; efforts will
         be taken by the GODR to update information within the first year of project implementation
     9   "**"  Indicates targets that are professionaljudgments but do not reflect a broader national
     .   consensus and/or build on weak baseline data. Ineither case, a review of the target i s
         envisaged within the first year of project implementation
         For some indicators, no information was available regarding baseline data (N.A.) and/or
         discussions concerning targets not concluded. These information gaps will be closed during
         the first year of project implementation.

Hierarchy of                                                                         Critical
objectives                                                                           Assumptions
CAS Goal
Poverty            See progress towards                                               (From goals to
reduction;         health related                                                     Bank mission)
increased share    Millennium
of the poor        Development Goals                                                  Other
receiving the                                                                         macroeconomic
benefits of                                                                           and social
social                                                                                variables within
development                                                                           and beyond the
and economic                                                                          control of the
growth                                                                                government of
                                                                                      the Dominican
                                                                                      Republic are
                                                                                      neutral or
                                                                                      favorable

Progresstowarc health related Millennii nDevelopment Goals
A. Improve         Maternal mortality rate   Unit: maternal deaths   SESPAS           See above

maternal                                     per 100,000 live births health

health                                       Baseline: 122 [1999]*   statistics
                                             Target: -20% (98) **
                                                                     ENDESA
                   Total fertility rate      Unit:total number of    survey
                                             children that would be
                                             born to a woman during
                                             her reproductive years'


                                             Baseline (Target)
                                             111: 2.8 (2.5)""
                                             IV: 3.9 (3.5)""
                                             VI: 4.3 (3.9)**
                                             VII: 2.8 12.5)""

                                                 35

1
1Hierarchy of  Indicators              Baseline & Targets        :ans of    Critical
 ob'ectives                                                      rification Assumptions
                                       VIII: 2.8 (2.5)**

               Percentageof            Baseline: 5.9 [1999]
               underweight newborns    Target: 4.1
               Under 5 mortality rate  Unit: under 5 deaths per
                                       1,000 live births
                                       Baseline (Target)
                                       111:30 (24)"'"
                                       IV: 66 (53)**
                                       VI: 68 (54)**
                                       VII: 28 (22)**
                                       VIII: 43 (34)**

               Infant mortality rate   Unit: infant deathsper
                                       1,000 live births
                                       Baseline (Target):
                                       111: 25 (20)**
                                       IV: 44 (35)**
                                       VI: 50 (40)**
                                       VII: 25 (20)**
                                       VIII: 34 (27)**

               Neonatal mortality rate Unit: neonatal deaths
                                       per 1,000 live births
                                       111: 17 (14)**
                                       IV: 21 (18)**
                                       VI: 28 (24)**
                                       VII: 15 (13)**
                                       VIII: 22 (19)**

               See also A

Project DeveloF ent Objectives (2003 to 306)
I. the
  Increase       Percentageof pregnant  Baseline (Target):   SESPAS          (From objectives
proportion of    women with at least 4  111:92.4 (98)        health          to goals)
the target       antenatal care visits  IV:90.2 (98)         statistics
population                              VI: 90.3 (98)                        Determinants of
utilizing                               VII: 95.5 (98)       ENDESA          maternal and
services                                VIII: 9I.3 (98)      Survey          child health
provided under                                                               outside the
the Basic Health Percentageof births    Baseline (Target):   Health Service  control of the
Plan             attended by skilled    111:98.2 (98)        Statistics      project remain
                 personnel              IV: 91.5 (98)        resulting from  neutral or
                                        VI: 93.7 (98)        the to be       favorable
                                        VII: 96.8 (98)       established
                                        VIII: 97.6 (98)      electronic      Interventions
                                                             Health          included in the
                Percentageof women in Baseline (Target):     Management      Basic Health
                reproductive age that   111:67.9 (73)**      and             Plan are
                 use modern family      IV: 61.0 (66)**      Information     effective in
                planning methods        VI: 65.1(70)**       System          reducing
                                        VII: 70.4 (76)""                     maternal and
                                        VIII: 69.4 (75)**    Special studies child mortality
                                                             and surveys
                Percentageof children   Baseline (Target):
                aged 12 to 23 months    111:42.1(54)**
                fully immunized (DPT,   IV: 26.0 (41)**
                Polio, Measles)         VI: 35.3 (48)**
                                        VII: 33.8 (47)**
                                        VIII: 33.0 (46)**

                Percentageof children   Baseline (Target):
                under 5 with diarrhea   111:41.4 (53)**
                that are medically      IV: 47.6 (58)**
                diagnosed and treated   VI: 41.0 (53)**
                                        VII: 34.0 (47)""
                                        VIII: 37.2 (50)**

                                                   37


11. Improvethe Percentageof women        Baseline (Target):
quality of     receiving antenatal care  111: 92.7 (100)
services       that are immunized        IV: 89.6 (100)
provided under against tetanus (at least VI: 92.6 (100)
the BHP to the two injections)           VII: 94.4 (100)
target                                   VIII: 93.1 (100)
population
               Percentageof women        Baseline: N.A.
               diagnosed with severe     Target: 100%"
               pre-eclampsia or
               eclampsia referred to
               tertiary care facilities

               % of staff in facilities  Baseline: N.A.
               incorporated inPSSs       Target: 95%
               present during working
               hours

               % of target population    Baseline: N.A.
               satisfied with the        Target: 75%
               quality of BHP services
111.Remove     % of population eligible  Target: 80%
financial      to government
barriers to    subsidies under the
access and     Social Security Law
protect the    enrolled inNational
target         Health Insurance Plan
population of
financial      Private expenditure as a  Baseline: 73% [2000]
consequencesof % of total health         Target: Pending
ill-health     expenditure
IV. Improve    % of SENASA's             Baseline: N.A.
afficiency of  financial resources       Target: > 30%**
health system  allocated to primary
               care level services

               NurselMidwife per         Target: 0.8:1.0**
               doctor ratio in PSSs
               (excluding auxiliary
               nurses)

               Hospital beds per 1,000   Target: 1/1,000**
               population in PSSs

               % of administrative and   Target: >90%
               managerial positions
               created in the reform
               process at the regional,
               provincial and
               municipal level of
               SENASA that are filled
               with SENASA
               employees

                                                     38



Project Output
 I.Public Health  x SRS are established at  Target              Project      (From outputs to
Service           the regional and          Regional: 5         monitoring   PDOs)
Mana,Dement       provincial level          Provincial: 18      and
Units (SRS) are                                                 evaluation   The current and
established at    Legislation is enacted    Target year: 2003                future
the regional,     that transfers and                            Progress     governments of
provincial and    regulates                                     reports      the Dominican
municipal level   responsibilities and                                       Republic remain
and operate       authorities of SRS                                         committed to the
based on clearly                                                             project and
defined           % of managersand          Target: 100%                     continue the
responsibilities, administrators of SRS                                      institutional and
authority, and    received training                                          health system
with sufficiently                                                            reforms
trained staff     See also: 6
                                                                             Capacity building
2. The National   Number of National        Target: 5           Project      activities are
Health            Health Insurance bodies                       monitoring   sufficient that
Insurance         (SNSs) that reimburse                         and          institutions are
System is         contracted PSSs timely                        evaluation   able to implement
established and   and according to                                           the reform agenda
operational       contractual                                   Progress
under the         arrangements                                  reports      Administrative,
supervision o f                                                              management and
SISALRIL          Financial resources       Target: 25%         Special      health staff are
                  flowing from SENASA                           surveys      committed to
                  on the basis of service                                    make the reforms
                  production as a % o f                         Health       work
                  total financial resources                     Service
                  allocated to project                          Statistics   Counterpart
                  regions                                       resulting    funding will be
                                                                from the to  available
                  Regional SNSs are         Target year:        be
                  solvent and financial     from 2004 onwards   established  The institutional
                  management i s                                electronic   reforms will result
                  :ontinuously monitored                        Health       in improved
                  sy SISALRIL                                   Management   accountability and
                                                                and          transparency and
                                                                Information  thus improve the
                                                                System       resDonsiveness of

                                                     39


 3. Autonomous    Number of regional        Target: 3            Project      he health system
 networks of      PSSs established                               monitoring  .o the health needs
 public and                                                      and         Ifthe target
 private          Number of primary care    Target               evaluation  iopulation
 providers (PSS)  facilities participating  Primary: min. 1 per
 are created at   ineach regional PSS       2,500 population**   Progress    4utonomous
 the regional,                                                   reports     nulti-sectoral
provincial and    Number of PSS and         Target:                          irovider networks
municipal level   hospitals integrated in   Hospitals: 1/3       Special     dlbeeffective
and operate       PSSs that assumed full    PSS: 2               surveys      nremoving
autonomously      responsibility and                                          ;eographical
with sufficiently authority to manage                                         Jarriers to access
trained           human resources
managerial and                                                                The health
administrative    % of managersand          Target: 100%  **                  nsurance system
staff             administrators of PSS                                       w i l l remove the
                  that job specific                                           nost significant
                  received training                                           Financialbarriers
                                                                             io access
                  See also 1, 5, 6                                           The improved
                                                                             medical quality of
4. PSs, SNSs      % of SNS that             Target: 100%         Project     services and
and SRSs          contracted all existing                        monitoring  behavioral
reached and       PSS for service                                and         changes of staff
implemented       provision                                      evaluation  will encourage the
contractual                                                                  target population
arrangements      % of the contracts        Target: 100%         Progress    to utilize basic
that govern       signed between SNS                             reports     health services
performance-      and PSS that include
based             performance elements                           Special
reimbursement     (e.g. quality, consumer                        surveys
procedures        satisfaction)

5. SRSs           % of providers            Target: 100%         Project
developed and     participating in PSSs                          monitoring
implemented a     that are registered under                      and
quality           the corresponding                              evaluation
assurance         regional licensing
program that      scheme                                         Progress
includes                                                         reports
provider         x regional                 Target: 3
licensing and     administrative bodies                          Special
accreditation     (SRS) operate provider                         surveys
                  accreditation schemes

                                                     40


6. The BHP is      % of nurses and           Baseline: 100%      Project
delivered          physicians affiliated                         monitoring
through PSs        with PSS that received                        and
with an            additional training in                        evaluation
infrastructure     the provision of the
meeting            BHP                                           Progress
nationally                                                       reports
defined            x PSS facilities with     Target: 3
standards and      insufficient                                  Special
sufficiently       infrastructure (capital &                     surveys
trained staff that equipment)
makes              rehabilitated andlor
appropriate use    expanded
o f well
functioning        % of PSS facilities that  Target: 100%
medical            have essential drugs
equipment and      available at any time
suppliesand
take advantage     % of PSS health           Baseline: 70%**
of internet        professionals trained in
based medical      ITtechnology and use
information        internet basedresources
sources            indaily work

7. Staff makes     SRS, SNS and PSS are      Target year: 2004   Project
appropriate use    linked by an electronic                       monitoring
of an electronic   HMIsystem                                     and
health                                                           evaluation
management         % of administrative,      Target: 100%
and information    managerial and                                Progress
system that        professional health staff                     reports
links SNS, SRS     trained in the use of the
and PSS.           H M I S
networks,
national           x regional SNS and        Target:
insurance          PSS use H M I S for
systems and        budget planning and
administrative     control
bodies

                                                   41


8. A network of  x types of test are      Baseline: N.A.       Project
public health    routinely provided by    Target: Pending      monitoring
laboratories     public health                                 3nd
provides         laboratories                                  -valuation
services to
diagnose         % of test results are    Target: Pending      Progress
communicable     available to providers                        reports
and non-         through the HMIS
communicable     within x days                                 Special
diseases and                                                   surveys
communicate      % of test results are    Baseline: N.A.
results to a     centrally collected      Target: Pending
central public   through the HMIS and
health service   reported in annual
that monitors    epidemiological reports
and reports the
epidemiology of
diseases,
develops control
strategies.
9. The central   x staff of central drug  Target: Pending      Project
drug             administration receive                        monitoring
administration   additional training in                        and
licenses new     pharmacoepidemiology                          evaluation
drugs, monitors  and
the drug market  pharmacosurveillance                          Progress
and ensures the                                                reports
availability and A continuous education   Target: Pending
the rational use program for                                   Special
o f drugs        pharmacists, physicians                       surveys
                 and nurses i s designed
                 and implemented with x
                 graduates per year

                 A druglicensing          Target year: 2004**
                 scheme i s designed and
                 all new drugs approved
                 before entering the
                 market

                 See also: 5

                                                 42


10.The          The PCU is staffed witk Target year: 2003   Project
Program         appropriately skilled                       monitoring
Management      and experienced                             and
Unit i s        technical,                                  evaluation
established and administrative and
operational     financial professionals                     Progress
                                                            reports
                % of supervision and    Target: 100%
                financial requirements
                met by the PCU

                % of implementation     Target: 90%
                milestones (outputs)
                achieved in time

                % of performance        Target: 100%
                indicators tracked and
                reported to decision
                makers                                                 I

                                                   43


                                                Annex l b
                         Dominican Health Sector Reform Support Program

                                Linkingoutputs, outcomes andimpact

Annex 1 summarizes project outputs and expected outcomes (development objectives) and impacts
(MDGs) with corresponding indicators to monitor project progress. The purpose of this section is to
describe key causal links between outputs, outcomes and impacts.


The CAS, as well as the 2001 Poverty Report and the 2003 Public Expenditures Report, identify the
increased share of the poor in the benefits of social development and economic growth as a sine qua
non for poverty reduction. This objective of World Bank support i s coherent with the commitment to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals - development objectives that the government and civil
society of the Dominican Republic endorsed at the Millennium Summit in September 2002. The
MDGs stipulate significant improvements in maternal health and substantial reductions in child
mortality. Mortality and morbidity among pregnant women and children results from a small set of
diseases and conditions. Effective and cheap interventions exist to prevent the fatal consequences and
are included in the Basic Health Plan of the Dominican Republic. Key for progress towards the MDGs
i s therefore achieving universal coverage of the Basic Health Plan (Project Development Objective I)
and ensuring the quality and effectiveness of the services provided under the Basic Health Plan
(Project Development Objective 11). Increased coverage of the Basic Health Plan results from
removing not only geographical but financial barriers to access (Development Objective 111).
Removing financial barriers through a National Health Insurance Plan that reaches beyond enrollees
formally employed would also protect the target population from financial consequences of illhealth.
Thus, Development Objective I11 will also contribute to the Millennium Development Goal of
reducing poverty and hunger. However, the reduction of poverty and hunger depends on too many
determinants that the impact of Development Objective 111could be monitored at the level of generic
poverty indicators.


The following project outputs would result from effective project implementation:
1. Public Health Service Management Units are established at the regional, provincial and municipal
     level and operate based on clearly defined responsibilities, authority, and with sufficiently trained
     staff.
2. The National Health Insurance Plan is established and operational under the supervision of
     SISALRIL.
3. Autonomous networks of licensed public and private providers are created at the regional,
     provincial and municipal level and operate autonomously with sufficiently trained administrative
     and managerial staff.
4. Autonomous provider networks, Public Health System Management Units and National Insurance
     Plan Secretariats reached and implemented contractual arrangements that govern performance-
     based reimbursement procedures.
5. Public Health Management Units developed and implemented a quality assurance program that
     includes provider licensing and accreditation.
6. The Basic Health Plan is delivered through public and private provider facilities with an
     infrastructure meeting nationally defined standards and sufficiently trained staff that make
     appropriate use of well functioning medical equipment and supplies and take advantage of internet
     based medical information sources
7. Staff makes appropriate use of an electronic health management and information system that links
     public and private provider networks, the National Insurance Plan secretariats and Public Health
     Management Units.

                                               44


I. A network of public health laboratories provides services to diagnose communicable and
    non-communicable diseases and communicate results to a central public health service that
    monitors and reports the epidemiology of diseases and develops control strategies.
2. The central drug administration licenses new drugs, monitors the drug market and ensures the
    availability and rational use of drugs.

Replacing a highly segmented with an integrated, cross-sectoral delivery system (PO1) is
expected to remove geographical barriers to access. Implementation of the National Health
Insurance Plan (P02) would remove financial barriers to access. The establishment of Public
Health Service Management Units (P03) would primarily oversee and ensure the effectiveness of
the provider networks and the National Insurance Plan(PO 18~2).   Thus, Project Output 1to 3 will
contribute to Development Objective I,the increased utilization of the Basic Health Plan. The
decentralized nature of project outputs 1to 3 is expected to contribute to the effectiveness of the
envisaged financing and service delivery system by improvingaccountability and transparency.

Project outputs 4 to 6 and 8 and 9 are expected to improve the quality of the services provided
under the Basic Health Planand thus would contribute and ensure progress towards Development
Objective I1(improvement of the quality of services providing the BHP). The implementation of
the National Health Insurance Plan would ensure progress towards Development Objective I11
(removing financial barriers to access and protecting from financial consequences of ill-health).
The implementation of a comprehensive and effective Health Management Information System is
expected to improve the effectiveness of the system as a whole (including the financing, delivery,
stewardship and surveillance function).

                     45


                 Annex l.C
DominicanRepublicHealthReformSupport Program
          Government PolicyLetter




                                        s      D.N.
                                              2m3




                   n:

46

47

48




      4

49

50

51

                                                  52




                                               Annex 2.a

                      DominicanRepublicHealthReformSupportProgram

                                      DetailedProject Description

The proposed Adaptable Program Loan (APL)aims at:

a) Contributing by the year 2015 to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) agreed to by
     the Government of Dominican Republic at the Millennium Summit in September 2000.
     Specifically, the Program would address three MDG goals: reduce child mortality, improve
    maternal health, and contribute to eradicate extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from
    financial loss due to illhealthand disability;
b) Supporting implementation of the new legal framework for the health sector, particularly the
    institutional strengthening of SESPAS in its new stewardship role, the development of insurance
    mechanisms, and the configuration of regional health networks; and
c) Supporting preparation, validation and dissemination of supplementary norms to the
    General Health L a w (42-01) and the Social Security Law (87 -01).

The APL builds upon and complements the ongoing Provincial Health Sewices Project and the
HIWAIDS Prevention and Control Project. The main legal framework is built upon the General
Health Law and the Social Security Law, both approved in 2001 and a set of regulatory provisions
derivedfrom these laws. Themost important ones are thefollowing:

"Regulatory Guidelines on Stewardship and Separation of Functions of the National Health System":
They enable SESPAS to convert the public health network into one or several "prestadoras de
servicios de salud"(PSS) (art. 160) and promote the creation of regional health services.


"  Regulatory Guidelines for Licensing Health Facilities ". They establish minimum operational
procedures and requirements for operation in order to obtain clearance for providing health services.
The aim i s to ensure safety and quality in health care delivered by public, private national and
international providers in the country. These requirements have to be met before starting service
delivery.

The National Health Council approved other rules and regulations for operating blood banks and
clinical laboratories, and a reagentslist.


" Regulatory Guidelines for Health Care Networks ": Affiliation and provision. They allow SESPAS
to differentiate personal health care from preventive services and provisions for affiliating
beneficiaries.


" Human Resources Regulatory Guidelines ": They regulate contracting and remuneration of human
resources according to the Civil Service and Administrative Career Law No. 14-91 of 1991 and the
Labor code for private workers. It looks especially for stability in performing functions in the health
system.

                                                         53


Regulatory Guidelines to the Social Security System:


      "  Regulations on the Family Health Insurance and the Basic Health Plan": These by-laws
      approved by the National Health Council in 2002, regulate the benefits contained in the Social
      Security System, and conditions, limitations and exclusions of the Family Health Insurance, and
      compel all private and public entities to participate in the system by delivering one or several
      components of the family health insurance scheme.

      " Regulatory Guidelines for the Control of Drugs for the Basic Health Plan": the National Social
      Security Council approved these by-laws in 2002. They remiate the incorporation and use of
      drugs in the Basic Health Plan defined by a Basic chart of essential drugs and therapies. Also,
      they entitle SESPAS to design therapeutical guidelines to assist health providers in drug
      prescription.


Three components in each one of three phases of four years address the above three goals of the
Program. The three programcomponents aligned with the three development objectives are:

Supporting health services extension to achieve universal coverage.                           The Program would
contribute to improving the health status of the economically disadvantaged population groups,
especially by reducing child and maternal mortality. It would contribute to reduce poverty by makmg
the already approved Basic Health Plan (BHP) accessible to the poorest and most vulnerable
population. The main mechanism for providing access by the poor to the BHP would be through
government subsidies of their health insurance premium, thereby removing financial barriers to access
and protecting them from financial loss due to ill health and disability. The APL would promote
affiliation by strengthening primary health services and hospitals at the secondary and tertiary care
levels. It would improve their capacity to provide quality medical services, especially MCHcare to the
target population, providing a physical and technologically supportive environment and improving
staff performance'.

Supporting implementation of the health sector reform legislation. The Program would assist in
implementing the mandates of the reform laws by supporting the development of innovative
approaches, testing new models, and funding policy studies in the areas of financing and organizing
health care, paying providers and remunerating personnel. It would support implementation of
mandated decentralization policies that provide more autonomy and decision-making authority to
lower administrative levels and to service providing institutions. These tested models and studies
would provide the financial, managerial and institutional tools and the legal underpinning for
achieving universal health service coverage. They would be implemented jointly with the activities
under the first component.

Improving Selected Essential Public Health Functions to promote and protect the health of the
population. The Program would support SESPAS in improving two essential public health functions
that would benefit the health of the whole population and would have a direct impact on many sectors
of the economy:

     a) Epidemiological health surveillance and control of risks in public health: The following
          activities would be implemented: (a) strengthening the information system for epidemiological
          surveillance to monitor incidence and prevalence of communicable and non-communicable
          diseases and to decide on control measures. Coordination with the HIV/AIDS/STIs


IConsejo Nacional de Salud: Reglaiirewto de Esrrrirrura, orgaiiizacich !,ficiicictiiaitrieiitode 10s redes piiblicas de
provisiuiz de seniiciosde areircidii a las per-soilus.Marzo 2003. R.D.

                                                    54


         surveillance system would be established; (b) Strengthening the capacity and quality control
         of laboratory and blood bank practices, including further development iiz extenso of the Norms
         for Good Practices in Public Health Laboratories'; (c) Better equipping and staffing the
         National Public Health Laboratory to perform virologic, bacteriologic and chemical analyses
         for food and water safety, air pollution control, vector disease diagnosis and control, and other
         analyses related to sanitation; (d) strengthening the cold storage facilities for vaccines and
         other biomedical products, and blood banks; (e) establishing a national pharmacological
         surveillance system to ensure that the pharmaceutical market fulfils the basic criteria of
         efficacy, safety and a reasonable costs of the authorized medical, nutritional and cosmetic
         substances; and (f)relocation and strengthening of the Forensic Pathology Department.

b)       Development of policies, plans and management capacity for assuring SESPAS
         stewardship: Under component 2, SESPAS would be substantially strengthened to ensure
         effective policy formulation and management.This component would support the design of a
         10-Year National Strategic Plan for ensuring a gradual build up and consolidation of the
         National Health System enacted by the General Health Law approved in March 2001, and the
         Social Security System enacted by the Social Security Law approved in May 2001. Partial
         implementation of this 10-year Strategic Plan would allow for field testing of implementation
         arrangements for both systems as proposed in components 1 and 2. Coordination
         arrangements for bilateral and multilateral cooperation to help consolidating the health sector
         reforms nation-wide would be an essential part of this Strategic Plan. This Plan, therefore,
         would become a navigation chart for the National Health Council (NHC) for the next 10years,
         and i s expected to define coordination mechanisms for managing international donor support3.
         Support would also be provided for carrying out policy and operational studies, including one
         focusing of the training of physicians, nurses, and other health personnel.

Program Phasing

The proposedProgram will achieve the stated development objectives in three phases over a period of
twelve years. Each phase would have three components plus a component for project management,
monitoring and evaluating the results of each phase and - in the case of the first two phases -
appraising the next phase of the program.

Phase IComponents

Component 1: Support HealthServices Coverage Extension

Geographic Definition. The earlier Provincial Health Services Project supported the provision of
primary care services to the poorest population with emphasis on maternal and child health in three
regions (111, IV, and VII), in one province of Region VI11(Sanchez Ramirez), and in one Health Area
of the National District (Santo Doming0 Centro).          Phase Iof this program would promote: (i)
completing and deepening coverage of the poor population with a basic health plan, emphasizing
MCH care; (ii) Region VI with the provinces of San Juan de la Maguana and Elias Piiia; and
                 adding
(iii) theprovincesofLaVegaandMonsignorNoueltocompletethecoverageofRegionVIII.
     adding
All these regions carry the largest proportion of poor in the country. A minimum of four essential
criteria were used for selecting priority areas to be included under the Program: (a) highproportion of
poorest families; (b) health care networks in operation or about to be completed for operation; (c)


  SESPAS: Norinas para [as Biierras Prdcticas de Laboratorios de Salud. R.D., 1999.
3Consejo Nacional de Salud: Reglame,rto de Recoria y separacidri de Fitnciones del Sistenra Naciorral de
Suiiid.Capitulo IV.Diciembre 17. 2002.

                                                   55


 health management information systems in place or about to be implemented; and (d) management
 agreements between SENASA and providers signed.

 The three priority regions border Haiti and have the highest percentage of poor: about one million
 people live in Regions IV, VI and VI1 and about 76 percent of this population qualifies for the
 subsidized scheme under the family insurance system. Two more adjacent regions (I11 and VIII)
equally poor would be supported for their incorporation into the strategy of gradual expansion of the
universal family insurance system. About 1.3 million people live in these two regions of which about
70 percent are under the poverty line. The total population covered under Phase Iwould therefore be
2.3 million of which about 1.7 million are under the poverty line.

    The following activities would contribute to achieve the component's objective:

          Support extending health care coverage in three priority regions using the national health
        insurance financing mechanism to deliver a basic health plan of essential health services,
        emphasizing M C H services.

          Strengthen the clinical problem solving capabilities of the UNAPS, the hospitals at the
        secondary and tertiary care levels in five regions, improve the quality of medical services
        provided, and ensure a functioning referral system among levels and among networks;

          Applying national norms to improve that physical infrastructure of Regions VI and VIII that
        was not covered under the first project, i.e. equipping, rehabilitate, and expand health centers
        and hospitals at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, including the financing of
        investments needed to strengthen the biomedical waste management systems in each facility;
        and


    0     Develop integrated and deconcentrated health care networks at the regional levels as
        authorized by the health sector reformlegislation.

Strengthening the provision of MCH Services. The highest priority would be assignedto ensure the
delivery of MCH services included in the Basic Health Plan of the National Social Security System
(see Table 1below). This Plan includes prenatal, partum and postpartum care, including hospital care
for normal deliveries and surgical deliveries (cesarean section) when necessary, and premature baby
care. It also includes medical care for pregnant women with clinical pathology, emergency and
hospital care, and family planning. For children, the Plan includes comprehensive care for children
(immunizations, growth and development, pediatric care, and school health). (See table 1below). It is
expected that 80% of M C H care would be delivered in NUAPS, 10-15% in secondary care hospitals,
and 5-10% in tertiary care hospitals. The NUAPS are the Primary Health Care Units with a catchment
population size of 2,500, capable (in theory) of providing most of primary health care. Presently, the
outstanding issue is precisely its meager capacity to address effectively the health problems of the
population under its catchment area, especially due to constraints of staff quality and lab support.

The Program would finance the strengthening of the infrastructure of 359 primary health care units
(UNAPS) to ensure an efficient and effective response capacity (capacidad resolutiva) for delivering
the above maternal and child services. Specifically, the project would finance physical facilities,
laboratory and medical equipment, training, information systems, drug and other medical supplies. It
would also support a study and its implementation to modify the incentive system.

In addition to financing these inputs, the project would support the establishment of Maternal and

                                                   56


Child Mortality Committees to study each maternal and child death for identifying human errors,
malpractice, technical deficiencies, negligence and ethical issues. The Committee would take
appropriate actions to correct the identified issues and possible factors explaining maternal and child
deaths. Among options for addressing the issues identified, the project would support a) workshops on
medical education, obstetrics and gynecology, and medical ethics to improve medical and nursing
skills; b) workshops on how to improve the clinical response capacity (capacidad resolutiva) of the
health network to address technical deficiencies (e.g., lack of laboratory, drugs, and other medical
inputs for obstetric and pediatric care); and c) sanctions to staff found responsible for negligence,
malpractice and ethical misconduct. These committees have been established by a Government decree
in March 2001 but still need to be operational (SESPAS: Comitd Nacional de Prevencibn, Estudio, y
Seguimiento de la MortalidadMaterno Perinatal. March 2, 2001)

                                                            57




                              Table 1. Basic HealthPlanand Costs


                                      Presidencia de la Republica

                       SUPERINTENDENCIA DE SALUD Y RIESGOS LABORALES

       COSTOS PERCAPITA DEL CATALOG0 DE PRESTACIONESDEL PLAN BASIC0 DE SALUD

                       Version 1.4 aprobada por el CNSS el 30 de octubre del 2002




 Partos                                                      0,030370          270.000    168,75
Atencion de parto normal                                  11 0,019741   1I    175.500 II   75,66
IAtencionde parto por cesarea                             1  0,010630   1      94.500  1   93,09I

                                                 58



  TIP0 DE SERVlClO                               FRECUENCIADEMANDA             COST0
                                                 I            I             I
  Cirugia                                           0,008616          76.601        48,22

 Cirugia General                                    0,008616          76.601       4 8 , ~




Component2: Support implementationof the healthsector reformlegislation

This component has two objectives: (i)assist in building the institutions to implement the health sector
reform legislation by supporting the development of regulatory frameworks, organizational structures,
financial instruments, training programs and information systems; and (ii)provide the legal and
financial enabling environment for achieving the objective of Component I.    The legislature approved 8

                                                   59


General Health Law (LGS-42-0 1) and a Social Security System Law (SDSS-87-0 1) that contains key
policy changes.
The most important changes are:

     Developing a universalfamily insurance system (SFS) consisting of two parts: SENASA in charge
     of the public sector, and Health Risk Administrators (ARS) in the private sector. The SFS covers
     the whole family members and includes health promotion, prevention, care, and rehabilitation
     benefits, as well as pregnancy and delivery care. It does not include care for traffic accidents;
     Organizing providers into legally sanctioned Health Services Providers (PSS) that can be public,
    private, or mixed public/private;
    Separating financing health care from providing health care;
    Gradually introducing a comprehensive basic health plan for all Dominicans irrespective of their
     socio-economic conditions and of their insurance status (see table 2 below); the law sets a
    transition period of 10 years for allowing the separation of functions in SESPAS (financing and
    provision of services), the conversion of the Dominican Institute of Social Security -DISS- into
    an ARS while terminating its service provider function. All financial resources for service
    provision from SESPAS and DISS would be transferred to the Treasury of the NationalCouncil of
    Social Security;
    Changing how providers are reimbursed and personnel are paid; and
    Deconcentrating decision-making by transferring technical and administrative tasks from the
    central MOH level to lower MOH levels and to M O H health facilities. The 10-year National
    Strategic Plan for supporting the implementation of the National Health System and the National
    Social Security Plan would include the mechanisms and partial financial support provided through
    this Program and complementary financial support neededfrom other sources (see component 3).

Implementing these policy changes requires a large investment in building and/or strengthening
institutions that heretofore have been managed centrally and/or have not been allowed to make any
important decision. Key programs indeveloping these institutions would require:

    Implementing the organizational structures, defining the stewardship and normative roles and the
    regulatory functions of SESPAS, SENASA, SISALRIL, Social Security Treasury, and regional
    and provincial levels, and redirect the flows of human and financial resources and of information
    to manage networks and to give the supervisory capacity to the deconcentrated technical and
    managerial levels.

    Developing regulatory and contractual frameworks for managing and supervising deconcentrated
    networks, and creatinggoverningBoards;

    Ensuring that the basic health plan reaches all poor;(see table 2 below)

    Applying financial instruments for modifying the behavior of providers such as: (i)mechanisms
    for paying providers: per capita, per diagnostic procedure, and for achieving coverage targets; (ii)
    developing transparent fee schedules the efficacy of the national network of public health
    laboratories in detecting and controlling diseases affecting large population groups; at facilitate
    cost recovery through contracting with other providers and charging for services provided to the
    insured population; and (iii) increasing productivity by paying staff a basic salary or professional
    honoraria plus incentives for achieving goals at specified levels of quality, for results obtained and
    for performance according to approved standards;

    Developing trainins programs to trainhetrain and to increase the management capacity of the
    managers of the network facilities and regulatory levels: central, regional and provincial;

                                                   60


      Implementing and consolidating management information systems already developed under the
      first project; and

 f) Developing and implementing quality assurance systems and institution-specific quality
      enhancement plans, and introducing accreditation and licensing of health care providers to raise
      the quality of services provided.

 Advances have been made in building networks and in granting more autonomy to hospitals and
 lessons have been learned in Region IV under the Provincial Health Services Project. Now that there
 i s the legal support of the two new laws the work initiated in Region IV can be completed. The
 experience from Region IV would be extended to Regions 111, VI, VI1 and VIII. The managerial,
 financial and service delivery tools legally authorized by the new laws (e.g. contract management,
provider behavior modification incentives, quality improvement) would be in place in five regions at
the end of the first phase. Phase Iwould also try out innovative approaches to manage the health
 sector; test new models for financing health care, for paying providers and for managing personnel;
and carry out supporting policy studies with a view of mainstreaming and extending these seminal
health sector reformactions during the secondphase.

In order to accelerate the decentralization process, the project would give priority to support
management in order to strengthen provincial and local institutions, through installation and operation
of health management information systems, budgetary transfers to provincial directorates, and legal
autonomy to provincial and local health facilities for human resources management. The employee
payroll would be managed locally with discretion for directors to introduce incentives for good
performance. Intensive management training programs, health management information systems and
national and international technical assistance drawing upon experiences from other countries would
be financed.

The Program would provide technical assistance to SESPAS in the strengthening of its stewardship
role and its planning and managerial capacity at central level; the reengineering and instrumentation of
regulatory and licensing responsibilities at central, regional and provincial level including the
development and implementation of new governing and managerial structures and the separation of
the provision of services through the development of regional integrated healthdelivery networks.

Technical assistance will be provided to SISALRIL in the development of insurance management
applications to standardize ARS billing, utilization review and medical auditing processes, risk
management and actuarial studies, including the installation of the information technology platformin
at least 41 regional and provincial levels (Intendencias). The infrastructure provided will also assist
SISALRIL and the Social Security Treasury in the establishment of efficient and equitable price
structures for the Basic Health Plan, standard billing mechanisms to implement transparent electronic
banking transactions and reimbursement processes.

The allocation of financial resources through SENASA will gradually allow the transfer of demand
driven subsidies to the poorest population, introducing efficiencies through the implementation of
quality and performance based incentives. The Project will support the establishment of SENASA's
national and regional capacity to manageaffiliation and beneficiary databases; the purchase of services
through management agreements with regional network providers; the utilization review, medical
auditing and reimbursement through automated insurance management applications and respective
information technology platform.

The Program would allocate resources trough the executing agencies for the training of sector leaders,
health managers, ARS, health service providers (PPS) and other actors in the new health insurance

                                                       61


 products, the use of standard applications and the pricing and reimbursement mechanisms; health
 sector reforms, laws and regulations; strategic planning and management; quality clinical and
 managerial processes and protocols; the use of information technology and clinical and management
 information systems in decision making processes.

 To support the implementation of sector reforms in participating institutions, the project will fund
 technical assistance, the selection, acquisition, development and implementation of health
 management information systems and required IT platform (hardware and software) for the
 installation and operation of voice, data and video local area networks (LAN) and communication and
 voice Ipsystems for wide area networks (WAN); the training of sector leaders, clinical, management
 and administrative staff; the procurement and installation of office and medical equipment and the
 rehabilitation of health facilities required for licensingand delivery of quality care.

 Component 3: Improvingselected essential public health functions to promote and protect the
healthof the population

This component would start with the establishment of the epidemiological surveillance system and IT
platform at SESPAS central level and two project regions, and carrying out the following studies and
action programs in support of activities under this component. Implementation of these studies and
action programs would take place inPhases I1and 111:

     Duringthe first year of Phase I,a 10-Year National Strategic Plan proposal for gradual build up
     and consolidation of the National Health System would be developed. Initial implementation of
     the 10-Year National Strategy Plan would be financed under components 1 and 2.            This Plan
     would become the navigation chart of the National Health Council for the next 10 years, and
     would help it in coordinating national and international technical and financial cooperation.

     Inthe thirdandfourthyear ofPhaseI,        diagnostic studies and action programs would be carried for
     a) strengthening the National Public Health Laboratory, the Laboratory Department and Blood
    Banks, and lab facilities for surveillance of food and water safety and clean air standards; b)
     strengthening the national cold storage facilities (cold chain); c) establishing the pharmaceutical
    surveillance system, including processes of approving and registering new drugs, surveillance of
    the drug market, marketing, pricing and distribution of drugs, and the rational use of drugs by
    assuring compliance behavior by prescriber and patients. The study would make recommendations
    on how best to support and strengthen the DrugRegulatory Authorities, and Pharmacy Faculties at
    public and private universities, over what time period, at what cost and under what financing
    conditions. The action program would also propose and cost programs to train in pharmaco-
    epidemiology, pharmaco-surveillance as well as programs of continuous education for physicians,
    pharmacists and nurses; and d) relocation of the National Forensic Pathology Institute. Support
    would also be provided for carrying out policy and operational studies, including one focusing of
    the training of physicians, nurses, and other healthpersonnel.

    All these studies and preparationof action plans would befinanced under Phase Iof the Program

Component4: PhaseIManagementandAppraisalNext Phase

This component would support project management, anduse of performance indicators for monitoring
and evaluation in terms of impact achieved with implementation. Also it would use trigger indicators
to decide on recommending financing the next phase of the program, and appraise the technical,
financial and institutional aspects of the next phase.

                                                  62


Investment Financing. Phase Iwould finance health facilities rehabilitation and expansion, electro-
mechanical and biomedical waste management equipment, medical supplies, vehicles, systems
development (e.g., management and financial information systems, quality assurance systems),
training and technical assistance.

Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would finance all efforts required to appropriately monitor
and evaluate project outputs, outcomes and impact. Project monitoring would depend to a large extent
on the envisaged Health Management and Information System. Hence, priority would be given to the
implementation of the HMIS during the early stages of the project with the goal of completing the
implementation and test phase within the first year of the project. In Phase Iand I1of the project,
efforts would concentrate on regions and provinces characterized by high levels of poverty and poor
health outcomes. In order to ensure that the project i s achieving the objective of closing the nation-
wide poverty and health gaps, the project would finance national demographic and health surveys in
each of the project phases. The annual evaluation of the project would be outsourced to a non-
governmental organization or academic institution, which would directly report to the presidential
office.

Phase I1Components

Phase I1would consist of the same four components as Phase I, component for each of the three
                                                                  one
development objectives and one component for project management, evaluating the results of Phase I1
and appraisingthe third phase of the program.

Component 1: Support Health Services Coverage Extension

Under Phase I1this component would continue to assist the extension of the provision of the basic
health plan in program terms and in geographic terms. It would critically review the health services
offered under the basic health plan and add cost effective services guided by a financial sustainability
analysis. Programmatic and geographic extension would take into account three criteria: (i)     it must
benefit the poorest and most vulnerable population groups; (ii) priority would be given to women and
children; and (iii)
                  it must implement the mandates of the health sector reform legislation.

Component 2: Support implementationof the health sector reform legislation

The 10-Year National Strategy Plan would specify the mechanisms for expanding health sector
reforms achieved during the first four years of the Program (see triggers) and would specific funding
sources for this expansion. Under Phase I1this component would continue and extend the activities
proposed and detailed under the Phase Icomponent earlier. Specific activities for supporting the
implementation of the laws would be the result of the evaluation of the Phase Iimplementation and of
the triggers for deciding on the appropriateness of financing Phase III.Pilots and experiments carried
out under Phase Iwould be evaluated, corrections made to those activities that performed below
expectations, and mainstreaming the programs that are judged to be efficient, effective and
sustainable. Prior to initiating Phase I1the results of applying the health sector reform principles to
three regions would be evaluated. After making the required corrections two more regions would be
selected to expand and deepen the health sector reform.

Component 3: Improving selected Essential Public Health Functions to promote and protect the
health of the population

The second phase would implement action programs prepared during Phase Ifor strengthening the
National Health Laboratory, the Department of Laboratories and Blood Banks, and the cold storage

                                                     63


facilities for vaccines and other biomedical products. Options for establishing regional capacity to
perform some public health laboratory functions would be explored in this phase (e.g. quality control
of water, air, food standards; confirmatory testing for suspected disease outbreaks). Investment would
be made in equipment and supplies and in ongoing technical skills training programs. The
pharmaceutical system improvement, including the rational use of drugs, would be in full operation
and would continue with training programs for consolidating the national pharmaco-surveillance
system integratedinthe WHO InternationalMonitoringProgram (WHO MC- Uppsala).

By the end of Phase 11,the studies and action programs done inPhase Iwould have been implemented,
including the strengthening the National Public Health Laboratory, the Department of Laboratories
and Blood Banks, and the epidemiological surveillance system. These activities would ensure reliably
and timely reporting of any disease outbreaks and report communicable diseases and changes in the
prevalence of non-communicable diseases. They would also monitor the pharmaceutical market to
ensure that it meets the basic criteria of efficacy, safety and reasonable costs of authorized drugs. The
relocation of the National Forensic Pathology Institute would have been implemented.

Component4: PhaseI1ManagementandAppraisalNextPhase

Similar to the fourth component under Phase I,this phase would also support project management,
monitor the progress of implementationat the hand of performance indicators, use trigger indicators to
decide on recommending financing the third phase of the program, and appraise the technical,
financial and institutional aspects of the next phase.

To a lesser degree than under Phase I,Phase I1would also finance health facilities rehabilitation and
expansion, electro-mechanical and biomedical equipment, medical supplies, vehicles, systems
development (e.g., management and financial information systems, quality assurance systems),
training and technical assistance. Exact needs and costs would be determined during Phase I1
preparation activities.

PhaseI11Components

Analogous to the first two phases, Phase I11would also consist of four components, one component for
each of the three development objectives and one component for project management, evaluating the
results of Phase I1as part of designing Phase 111, and a rigorous evaluation of the whole health sector
reform program. Providing a detailed blueprint anticipating the contents of the four components for
Phase I11at this early stage i s not advisable. The contents would be strongly guided by the lessons
leamed from the first two phases, by an evaluation of the political environment, and by a financial
sustainability analysis within the context of the macro economic environment. A major objective of
Phase 111would be consolidating the gains of the first two phases with a shifting emphasis towards
assuring quality of health services provided.

                                                     64


 Component 1: Support Health Services Coverage Extension

The emphasis under Phase I11would be consolidatingthe universal provision of the basic health plan
achieving equitable health services coverage. An evaluation of the impact of the first two phases may
reveal: (i)population groups with limited or insufficient access to the basic health plan causing
unacceptable rates of neonatal and post neonatal mortality, of avoidable maternal deaths, of
preventable child deaths, and of premature deaths; (ii)    health services that should be provided but that
are not routinely part of the basic health plan and that are justified on cost effective and humane
grounds; and (iii)geographic areas (municipalities, provinces, regions) that require more intensive
support for managing and developing their human resources and their institutional capacity. The first
two phases should have enabled achieving an acceptable degree of equity in the availability and
accessibility of the basic health plan. A key objective of Phase I11would be to assure that equitable
services are of similar quality for all recipients and that discrepanciesare corrected.

Component 2: Support implementationof the healthsector reform legislation

Phase I11would continue and extend the activities proposed and detailed under the second component
of the first two phases. The results of the evaluation of the first two phases and of all trigger indicators
would guide the specific activities for continuously supporting the implementationof the laws and the
successful implementation of the coverage extension component. Prior to initiating Phase I11the
results of applying the health sector reform principles to three regions and its impact on the equity and
the quality of essential health services would be carefully evaluated. After malung the required
corrections the remaining regions would be included in the health sector reform program.               This
component therefore would simultaneously expand activities and consolidate gains.

Component 3: Improving selected Essential Public Health Functions to promote and protect the
health of the population

Phase I11would remedy any deficiencies or shortcomings observed during the evaluation of Phase I1
to ensure that the National Public Health Laboratory and the epidemiological surveillance system are
monitoring health status, particularly of mothers and children, and that related health indicators to
MDGareachieved.

Component 4: Phase I11Management and Impact Evaluation.
Similar to the fourth component under Phases Iand 11, this phase would also support project
management, monitor the progress of implementation at the hand of performance indicators and
appraise the technical, financial and institutional aspects of the health reform program. A major
objective would be assessing and evaluating the successes and failures of the health reform program,
carrying out a financial analysis, recommending appropriate changes and modifications, and
documentingthe lessons learned.

                                                 65


Table 2 presentsthe summary data on the APL:




                                    PhaseI                   PhaseI1                   Phase111
                                (US$42million;           (US$42million;           (US$42million;
                                 IBRD,US$30               IBRD, US$30              IBRD,US$30
                                    million)                 million)                   million)
ImplementationPeriod             FY 2004-2008             FY 2008-2012             FY 2012-2016
Periodic Monitoring               Twice a year             Twice a year             Twice a year
(BRD)
Triggers' Assessment              March 2007               March 2011
Appraisal next phase                June 2007                June 2011

PerformanceEvaluationby Phase. T&ger         indicators for moving from Phase 1 (APL1) to Phase 2
(APL2) and from Phase 2 to Phase 3 (APL3) are listed in Table 3 of Annex 2. These triggers would
be assessedprior to and reviewedduringappraisal of Phase 11and Phase I11APLs.

Trigger indicators would account for the GODR's readiness to: i)expand the geographic coverage of
the reformed insurance system; ii)scale up the provision of quality care through certified and licensed
providers; iii)assign health system management to new regional authorities; and iv) scale up the
provision of improved public health services reflecting lessons learned in previous phases.
The triggers would be assessedand measuredas part of the monitoring and evaluation of the program
and should be based on evidence that institutional capacity building and legal conditions were
successful to allow to move to a new phase with minimumrisk; they would be "measures of success"
when movingon to the next phase.

Compliance with disbursement schedules made as per legal agreements would also be taken into
account for moving from a phase to the other.

     I
A




 I

a
.-z
e,
                 I
                 9
f                Y   ..
V
C
6
15

C
in
e,
.e
`3
5
e,


P
c

.-e,
v)

2:
-2
v)
3




    c  l~
       I

            0
            Y    -Ez $u




'

      ~
'C    3
      J

         -.-$
         d
         c


         e
         5
         e,


         ee,
         s1
          P&
         mC
         c
          0
         Lc
          0
         Y

         e,
          E:
         Yx
          e,
         in
         v)
         2

  r-I    -
         in
         m
          0

- 0
  sn
d        in
 'L
         .-13
         Y

         0
         3
         v
         .-S
         g
         (u
         ..
         L i
         52

0
r-

                                                     71



                                                  Annex 2.b
                          DominicanRepublic HealthReformSupport Program

                  MedicalWaste ManagementAssessment inthe DominicanRepublic


The recent enactment of new General Health and Social Security Laws are an encouraging sign that the
GODR i s committed both to protecting the environment and to reducing the risks posed by the improper
management of medical waste. These laws provide a new framework for managing infectious and other
medical waste that poses health risks to patients and health care staff, as well as to people who are
exposed to such waste outside health facilities.
The solid waste produced in health facilities i s potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious, or toxic,
producing the risk of the spread of diseases.
The proposed Program, building on the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project, and the
recommendations in the assessment of medical care waste handling and disposal conducted under the
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project, would support activities related to the handling of medical
waste in the Dominican Republic. Specifically, it would support (1) necessary investments under
Component Ito strengthen biomedical waste management systems and processes in participating
facilities; and (2) relatedtraining of health personnel associatedwith these activities.
The following sections of this document:

    Describe what constitutes medical waste and discusses the managementof medical waste;

0   Provide an overview of the new legal and institutional framework for addressing the problem of
    medical waste in the Dominican Republic;

    Discuss investments financed under the ongoing WB-financed Provincial Health Services and the
    HN/AIDS Preventionand Control Projects inthe Dominican Republic; and
    Identify how the proposed Program would contribute to addressing the problem of medical waste in
    the Dominican Republic.
A. What ConstitutesMedicalWaste
Medical waste i s defined as any material disposed of by a health facility, whether it i s in solid, liquid, or
gaseous state. Health facilities are understood to be public hospitals, private centers, clinical laboratories,
pharmacies, etc.
According to the international standards dictated by the WHO, medical waste falls into the following
categories:
General medical waste. This category includes paper and byproducts, plastic and glass products, and
non-infectious materials.
Special biomedical waste. This is infectious or other waste produced by a health facility that poses
health risks both within the health facility and beyond it.
Infectious biomedicalwaste. This includes blood, secretions, needles, syringes, vaccines, and pointedor
sharp materials that may have been contaminated with infectious agents. Preventive measures in handling
and final disposal of such waste are important.
Chemical waste. This includes disinfectants and other chemicals used for examinations, research,
cleaning, etc. Special regulations are required for the handling and final disposal of such chemical waste.

                                                      72


Radioactive waste.        This is waste contaminated with radioactive substances used in diagnostic
examinations or special therapeutic procedures. The elimination of radioactive waste requires specialized
procedures becauseof its hazardous nature.
Anatomical waste. This consists of corpses or human remains from births, abortions, mutilations, or
surgical operations. Anatomical waste poses a great risk spreading infection. Both forensic medicine
regulations and ethical considerations are important inthe handling of such waste.
Internationally accepted standards establish a total production of medical waste between 3.3 and 11
pounds per bed per day. Eighty percent of this consists of general medical waste and the remaining 20%
consists of special biomedical waste, approximately 14% of which corresponds to infectious waste. A
study performed in 1992 by the Universidad Aut6noma de Santo Domingo, based on the analysis of a
sample of 29 public and private health facilities in the DR, found that the production of medical waste per
bed per day was 5.5 pounds.
Internationally accepted standards for the percentages of waste produced by various components of health
facilities are as follows: food service (50%); hospitalization service (18%); maternity service (8%);
emergency service and orthopedics (8%); surgery (5%); and administrative, diagnostic and other services
(11%). The 1992 study of 29 public and private health facilities in the Dominican Republic found the
following distribution of waste production by type of service: (25.6%); kitchen (20.8%); surgery (11%),
and outside consultation (9.2%).
B. Approaches to the Managementof Medical Waste
The management of medical waste requires special care, including the provision of information and
training to the staff of a health facility that are involved in the various aspects of waste production and
management. The waste management process has several phases, which control waste from the point of
production to its final disposal, as detailed below:

         Classification. Classification of waste at the point of production (i.e., separating infectious and
         hazardous waste from the conventional waste stream with the goal of reducing the amount of
         waste that needs to be specially treated) makes it possible to reduce the volume of infectious
         waste and minimize treatment costs.

         Internal collection. Intemal collection refers to the use of special containers, designed for the
         type of waste to be handled, placednear where the waste is produced andused only once.
         Internal transfer. The shortest route between the point of production and intermediate storage
         of waste should be selected for the internal transfer of waste. Waste containers should be
         checked to ensure that they are closed. Special measures should be taken to protect the staff
         involvedin transfers.

         Storage. The storage place where the containers with waste are held before the treatment and/or
         final disposal of the waste should be equipped with hermetically sealed containers.
         External transport. The transport of waste from the point of intermediate storage to the waste
         treatment point should be done usingspecial vehicles that can be disinfected.

         Treatment.     Waste treatment includes methods, techniques, or procedures that change the
         characteristics of waste, reducing or eliminating the possibility that the waste will affect people's
         health or the environment.

         The WHO has identified several procedures for medical waste treatment:

         Incineration. Incineration involves burning waste in a medium under controlled conditions to
         oxidize the carbon and hydrogen present in the waste. This method reduces the volume of solid
         waste by 80-95%. Although incineration can produce environmental toxins such as dioxin if

                                                            73


          adequate controls are not adopted, it i s often recommended because it is the only waste treatment
          method applicable to all types of biomedical waste.

          Steam sterilization. This method involves submitting the waste to steam insidean Autoclave, at
          an adequatetemperature and pressure and for a determined time.

          Gas sterilization. This method consists of destroying pathogens present in waste by placing
          them in a compressed air chamber in which sterilizing agents are introduced, such as ethylene
          oxide or formaldehyde.

          Chemicaldisinfection. This processinvolves treating waste with liquidchemicaldisinfectants.

          Other methods of sterilization. Other methods of waste treatment that are less commonly used
          are includingexposure to ultraviolet radiationor microwaves.
C.The Dominican Republic's New Legaland InstitutionalFrameworkfor Handling:MedicalWaste
The enactment of the General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources in August 2000 and the
enactment of the General Health Law on March 8, 2001, that was prepared with support of the Provincial
Health Services Project, are an auspicious development in the Dominican Republic. The enactment of
these laws indicates that environmental protection and the improving the management of medical waste
have become priorities for the GODR. As discussed below, the laws also provide a clear legal and
institutional framework for addressing the management of potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious,
or toxic waste producedinhealthfacilities.
GeneralLaw onthe EnvironmentandNaturalResources
The purpose of the General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources was to establish guidelines
for the conservation, protection, improvement, and restoration of the environment and natural resources,
thus assuring their sustainable use and to create institutions to take the lead inaddressing issues relatedto
the protection of the environment and naturalresources.
The General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources created the State Secretariat of Environment
and Natural Resources as the lead agency for environmental management. In addition, it designated the
National Council for the Environment and Natural Resources as the body responsible for programming
and evaluating policies and for a biodiversity conservation strategy. This council is composed of the
State Secretariats of Environment and Natural Resources, of Agriculture and Livestock, of Public Health
and Social Assistance, Education, Public Works, Armed Forces, Tourism, Industry and Commerce,
Foreign Affairs, Labor, along with the Municipal League, the Natural Resources Institute, and regional
representatives of NGOs, peasant organizations, universities (public and private), and the national
business sector.4

Responsibility for the handling and disposal of waste water is distributed by territoriality: the Santo
Doming0 Aqueduct and Sewer Corporation (CASAD) of the National District; the Santiago Aqueduct
and Sewer (CORAASAN) of the province of Santiago; and the National Institute of DrinkingWater and
Sewers (INAPA) in the country's other provinces.
Several special offices and commissions created by decree also have objectives related to environmental
preservation, including the Commission for the Study of Causes of Environmental Pollution (Decree
2596-72); National Council of Radiology Protection (Decree 413-9 1); National Commission to Monitor
Agreements of the United Nations Conference on the Environment and the development of the "Land
Summit" (Decree 340-92); Office for the Reform and Modernization of the Drinking Water and

1Prior to the enactment of the General Law on the Environment and Natural Resources in August 2000. the responsibility for
 environmental protection in the Dominican Republic was shared by several institutions. They included the State Secretariat of
 Public Health and Social Assistance [SESPAS): the Dominican Social Security Institute (IDSS): city councils: the State
 Secretariat of the Armed Forces: and the General Bureau of Forestry.

                                                           74


 Sanitation Sector (Decree 203-98); National Institute of Environmental Protection (Decree 216-98); and
 the Coordinating Commission of the Natural Resources and Environment Sector, created by Decree 152-
 98.
 GeneralHealthLaw
The General Health Law enacted on March 8, 2001, incorporates major changes in the Dominican
Republic's health care organization and financing. Provisions of the General Health Law pertaining to
the management of medical waste, which supersede provision of previous laws dealing with this topi^,^
are summarized below.
SECTION IV-Solid Waste
Art. 46. The State Secretariat of Public Healthand Social Assistance (SESPAS), incoordination with the
State Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources and other relevant institutions, shall prepare the
official regulations that govern the disposal and management of solid waste whose use, collection,
treatment, holding, recon version, industrialization, transport, storage, elimination, or final disposal may
be hazardous to the population's health.
Art. 47. The institutions of the health system and all those health facilities which, due to their operations,
utilize toxic or radioactive materials or substances, contaminants or other substances that may spread
elements which are pathogenic or harmful to health, should have waste elimination systems developed in
terms of the pertinent regulation prepared by the SESPAS, in coordination with the State Secretariat of
Environment and Natural Resources and other relevant institutions. Medical waste shall be stored
separately, technically treated in the establishment of origin and/or delivered to the corresponding
municipality or institution, as the case may be, for transport and proper final disposal.
Art. 48. Health authorities must informthe State secretariat of Environment andNatural Resourcesabout
those establishments or places which constitute a hazard to the health or life of the population due to
undue, unhygienic accumulation of solid waste, so that said Secretariat may order them to be cleaned and
may execute the corresponding administrative and safety measures.
SECTION V-Disinfection and other Measures
Art. 67. Those substances or objects that, by favoring the spread of diseasesand causing harmto people's
health, are considered hazardous shall be handled, sterilized, or destroyed by their owners or those in
charge, or by the health authority itself, following the instructions and regulations that are prepared for
this purpose by the health authority, in coordination with the relevant environmental authority and
withoutjeopardizing compliance with prevailing environmentalregulations and measures.
SESPAS shall collaborate with the State Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources on the
preparation of a list of hazardous substances and products, on the constant updating of this list, and on the
preparationof regulations governing the waste management of these substances.
Art. 68. The owners, directors or heads of health or medical care facilities and other places where human
groups stay or pass through, should avoid the spread of transmissible diseases within their establishment
or towards the community, and shall be responsible for ensuring that the establishment has the necessary
elements to avoid such spread, and that the staff of their agency carry out prophylactic practices in a
timely and proper manner.
Art. 100.SESPAS is responsible for equippingthe institutions or healthestablishments and, together with
the advisory unit of the National Commission for the Accreditation of Clinics and Private Hospitals, for


`Prior to the enactment of the General Health Law. medical waste problems were addressed by a diversity of codes and laws.
  including the National Public Health Code (1956) and general health care guidelines contained in Health Law 456-38: Law
   1459-38 on Health Procedures: the 1956 Labor Code: and Law 1896-62 on Social Security and General Hospital Regulations
  (Decree 351-99).

                                                      75


accrediting these institutions, ensuring the application of rules related to the minimum requirements
which, accordingto their classification, said institutions should meet, with regard to physical installations,
equipment, personnel, organization and operation, to ensure that the user receives a proper level of care,
even in the case of disasters.
Paragraph I.In coordination with the corresponding institutions of the national health system, SESPAS
shall regulate, by resolution, the equipping, operation and accreditation of health establishments and
promote quality assurance, which shall be carried out through the assessment of public and private
establishments, by rules and mandatory minimum criteria, and of their staff.
Paragraph 11. SESPAS shall establish the general regulatory guidelines based upon which the duties
assigned in this article shall be complied with.
Art. 101. The professionals or technical directors of health establishments in which natural or artificial
radioactive material, or equipment designed for the emission of ionized radiation for diagnostic, medical
therapy or dental purposes or for scientific research, is used should seek a permit from SESPAS that
endorses their activities, without jeopardizing the duties of the State Secretariat of Environment and
Natural Resources inthis regard.
Art. 102. The boards of directors and the administration of healthestablishments shall be responsible for
ensuring that staff correctly and properly performs their duties, so as not to expose the health or life of
patients to unnecessary risk due to the lack of technical or therapeutic elements for reasons of unhealthy
environmental conditions.
Art. 106. Health laboratories shall be directed by an expert in the subject who is duly accredited in the
corresponding discipline and who shall be responsible for the establishment's progress, compliance with
biosafety regulations, suitability of operations, and precision and quality in reports issued on the results of
analyses.
Paragraph. Authorized staff who perform analyses or special testing in public, private, civilian, military,
and other laboratories, should adjust their work to the technical regulations stipulated by the Laboratory
and Blood Bank Divisions of SESPAS. Said staff shall be subject to technical control of the quality of
their analyses of the aforementioned divisions.
SECTION VI BloodBanks,BloodTransfusion Services, And Serology Control
                -
Art. 107. The drawing of human blood, the fractionating and industrial transformation of human blood,
and the practice of any of the activities mentioned in this article, may only be performed in blood banks
and in blood derivative plants authorized SESPAS, which shall define, through the corresponding
regulation, the rules for the installation, operation and control of these establishments, in coordination
with pertinent institutions.
Paragraph I. The supply and transfusion of blood and its derivatives constitutes an act of legal and ethical
responsibility. Doctors shall be the health professionals trained and authorized to therapeutically prescribe
human blood, its components and derivatives, inaccordance with the diseaseto be treated.
Paragraph 11. The institutions of the National Health System shall ensure that their blood banks perform
mandatory testing of blood and its derivatives, according to the prevailing international regulations of
WHO, as well as pre-transfusion compatibility testing.         No product may be transfused without the
respective quality certification. SESPAS shall ensure compliance with this provision.
Paragraph 111. A duly accredited staff member in terms of the nature of such banks and centers shall
direct blood banks and hemotherapy centers.
Paragraph IV. The technique of aphaeresis, as a means of fractionating to obtain blood derivatives, may
only be used by blood banks that are qualified and expressly authorized by authority of SESPAS. This

                                                     76


 should correspond to a concrete program, associated with the country's needs, in accordance with the
 regulation prepared by SESPAS, and in coordination with institutions specialized in this subject.
 D. Relatedinvestmentsfinancedunder the WB ProvincialHealthSystemsProiectinthe
     DominicanRepublic
 In 1999, SESPAS, requested that CERSS, through the Provincial Health Systems Project and a parallel
 project financed by the IDB, support the provision of technology for the treatment and final disposal of
 waste in the main health facilities around the country. As a result, the Provincial Health Systems Project
 has invested nearly US$1 million to date to strengthen the medical waste management capacity of some
of the main SESPAS' health care facilities. The vast majority of the resources (apart from about
US$50,000 devoted to civil works) has been usedto helped several hospitals purchase incinerators to treat
medical waste and to support training of staff in the operating of this equipment and the management of
medical waste:

         Purchase of incineratorsby hospitalsfor the purposeof treatingmedicalwaste. Incinerators,
  along with peripheral equipment (identified containers) and services related to training in the operation
  and maintenance of equipment, have already been purchased and installed in several hospitals. They
  include the San Vicente de Paul Hospital in Duarte Province, Luis Bogaert Hospital in Valverde
  Province, Pascasio Toribio Piantini Hospital in Salcedo, Jaime Mota Hospital in Barahona, as well as
  the Armed Forces Central Hospital, Nuestra Sefiora de la Altagracia Maternity Hospital, Los Minas
  Maternity Hospital, Moscoso h e l l o Hospital, Robert Reid Cabral Children's Hospital, and the Luis E.
  Aybar Complex in the city of Santo Domingo. Of the incinerators installed, most of them are operating
  at full capacity.

         Training. Training courses in the operation and maintenance of the medical waste incinerators
  and in managing medical waste within the hospital were carried out successfully inall hospitals:
  Training in the operation and maintenance of the medical waste incinerators was provided to at least
  three people per hospital. It included training relate to the features of the equipment (e.g., electrical
  installation, gas-oil connection, ash removal) and the operation of the equipment (e.g., startup,
  shutdown of the installation, operating regulations, safety checks),
  Training in the management of medical waste within the hospital was provided to hospital staff (20 per
  establishment). This course was generally well accepted, both in terms of attendance and participation,
  and it has raised expectations about improving the way in which medical waste is managed. At most
  hospitals, attendance was complete, with between 25 and 30 people, including mid-level and higher
  level staff, on average per course. The exception was Los Minas Hospital, where only about 10people
  (mostly maintenance staff) attended. At Luis E. Aybar Hospital, about 50 people attended, including
  nursing students who were very interested in the subject. In some cases, technical staff, especially from
  central services departments attended the course at different hospitals.         At several hospitals, the
  instructors were asked to repeat the talks at another time so that staff that was not able to attend the first
  time could then do so.
A key challenge inthe Dominican Republic's health facilities is to devise mechanisms to keep the trained
personnel who work in the waste collection and storage process. Furthermore, it was confirmed duringthe
training process that the problem of handling such waste in health facilities is considered a housekeeping
problem-so     medical and paramedical staff does not participate in the waste management process.

                                                     77


Hospitals' Strong and Weak Points inAddressingthe Problemof MedicalWaste
The Provincial Health Systems Project assessment team reported prior to the installation of the
incinerators in 2001 that there is no management of medical waste in most of the Dominican hospitals,
with the exception of Robert Reid Children's Hospital, where waste selection is performed and some clear
criteria exist. In general, hospitals exhibit the same strengths and weaknesses in addressing the problem
of medical waste:
Weak points inaddressingthe problem:
     All waste at the hospital is treated inthe same way.

     There is no differentiation of medical waste by types, based on their danger andor the social alarm
     produced, except for the separation of needles and sharp objects in some hospitals.

    The only type of waste that i s treated differently is a placenta, which in some centers is washed
    manually to keep fluids from dripping (La Altagracia Maternity Hospital) and in others ends up in
    septic tanks (Pascasio Toribio Hospital).

    Where bags are used for waste, they are only one color;
    Where bags are used, they are not as thick as is advisable (>55 m.), so they often break.

    In most cases, sufficient means for possible waste separation are lacking. There are no proper trash
    containers.
    There are no special containers for sharp or pointed objects.

    The staffs that generate waste lack proper training in the elements of correct management. The bags
    are so overfilled that they cannot be closed. Capped and uncapped needles are thrown in the bags. In
    some emergency units, needles can be observedon the floor.
    Waste collection personnel are unaware of minimum safety standards for waste management. In
    some cases, they do not use gloves or they use inadequate ones, and they do not wear specific
    clothing for the task. Bags are not handled correctly (e.g., bags are sometimes carried on the
    shoulders).

    The transport of waste from the units to the waste dump i s sometimes done in vehicles, sometimes
    not.

    In waste dumps, it is common to find a large quantity of waste that has been thrown out without use
    of plastic bags.
    With the exception of centers whose installations have a municipal storage container, waste storage
    sites are in poor conditions. They lack doors and allow the access of children and animals. They lack
    cleaning hoses and/or fire extinguishers.
Strongpointsinaddressingthe problem:
    There i s awareness in hospitals of the issue of waste, both by personnel and management. Awareness
    i s not as strong amongjanitorial and trash collection staff, especially becausethey are unaware of the
    risk.

    There is an important potential among persons interested in participating in and doing something
    about waste management.

    There is external awareness about the current way in which waste i s eliminated, both among the
    public and authorities.

                                                       78


     A credible process has begun, aimed at improving waste management.                 The installation of
     incinerationplants in the seven hospitals is a sign of this.
     A draft planfor HospitalHygiene Standardsdeveloped by SESPAS has beenput inplace.
 Conclusions
The Provincial Health Systems Project assessment team concluded that implementation of a waste policy
for any hospital would come up against two essential difficulties:         (i)materialmeans, and(ii)the
awareness and preparation of staff. The assessment team made the following recommendations currently
under implementation with respect to improvingthe preparation of staff

         Create a Waste Management Commission in each hospital.                     Each hospital's Waste
         Management Commission should include staff from different occupations who participate in the
         hospital's daily operations or in that environment-i.e.,   an epidemiologist, a nurse, ajanitor, and
         an engineer-and     should be charged with preparing a Waste Plan for the hospital that establishes
         waste generation points, collection routes, storage points, and waste management responsibilities
         for various parties.

         Offer hospital staff training in waste management. Staff should be offered a three to four
         hours training course on waste management that is tailored to their particular needs. For
         example, maintenance and janitorial staff are at special risk in handling waste. Nursingstaff and
         nursingstudents (very important) could benefit from training related to the generation of medical
         waste.

         Involve outside consultants. Outside consultants should be involved in the presentation of
         training courses and subsequently to provide support to the Waste Management Commission in:
         (i) establishmentofaninitialworkplan,(ii)
            the                                            follow-up/correction, and (iii) evaluation.
                                                                                          final
E. RelatedInvestmentsfinanced underthe HIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlProject
As suggested earlier, public health problems generated by the management of medical waste affect the
hospital population-that       is, medical and paramedical staff, patients (and visitors), and service
employees-but     also affect the population outside the hospital. One of the main concerns regarding
medical waste in the DR i s the possible transmission of diseases such as HN/AIDS or hepatitis B through
wounds causedby contaminated needles. The population groups at greatest risk from this are: (i)      patients
and health personnel; (ii)staff of hospital support services (trash collectors, treatment plant operators,
etc.); and (iii)
               patients at highrisk of contracting infections (e.g., people with diabetes, people with AIDS;
drugaddicts).
The HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project, building upon and complementing the activities
supported under the Provincial Health Services Project, contemplates interventions under Component 2 to
reduce HIV/AIDS transmission, aimed at protecting high-riskhuman groups such as patients and health
staff within and outside hospitals, preserving the environment by establishing proper systems and
processes for the management and treatment of contaminated hospital waste. Specifically, it i s supporting:
(i)an assessment of medical care waste handling and disposal related to HIV/AIDS programs and
activities under the project; (ii)the revision and updating by COPRESIDA (the Presidential Commission
for HIV/AIDS), through the SESPAS' General Directorate of Sexually Transmitted Infections and AIDS
(DIGECITSS) and other specialized institutions, of the existing manual for medical waste handling and
disposal; and (iii) the training of health personnel associated with HIV/AIDS programs and activities
under the project in the application of these standards to protect high-risk human groups such as patients
as well as health staff in the participatingfacilities.
The manual addresses procedures for health center staff with regard to the handling, transport, treatment,
and final disposal of medical waste, as well as the provision of required equipment and inputs, with
special attention to the handling of sharp and pointed objects (the main risk of viral contamination inside

                                                      79


 hospitals), beginning at the point where the waste is generated, through the use of receptacles for the
collection. storage, and disposal of sharp and pointed objects. The receptacles for sharp objects should be
 synthetic fiber containers, with a hermetically sealable translucent cover to keep liquids from spilling.
They should have rounded edges to avoid cuts to staff involved in handling and should be identified with
international coding for biohazard us waste. Differentiated routes within the health establishment are
being defined to transport the special containers, physical identification of routes, as well as inputs and
training for the staff responsible.
F. TheProposedHealthReform Support APL
The proposed project would complement the provision of hospital waste treatment equipment financed
under the Provincial Health Services and the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Projects, and the parallel
IDB project, as well as the training of staff assigned to do this work. Technical assistance would be
provided to the local governments of each participating locality in order to improve the disposal of
residual waste, without any risk to their staff or to the environment. More specifically, to strengthen the
biomedical waste management system in the participating health facilities, the proposed project will
support under Component Ithe following activities:
         Create a Waste Management Commission in each hospital.                    Each hospital's Waste
         Management Commission should include staff from different occupations who participate in the
         hospital's daily operations or in that environment-i.e., an epidemiologist, a nurse, ajanitor, and
         an engineer-and    should be charged with preparinga Waste Plan for the hospital that establishes
         waste generation points, collection routes, storage points, and waste management responsibilities
         for various parties.

    0    Purchase of incinerators by hospitals for the purpose of treating medical waste.
         Incinerators, along with peripheral equipment (identified containers) and services related to
         training in the operation and maintenance of equipment, would be purchased and installed in the
         hospitals according to the findings of investment needs assessments. To this end, the project's
         Operations Manual will include the World Bank guidelines for such investments.

         Offer hospital staff training in waste management. Staff should be offered a three to four
         hours training course on waste management that is tailored to their particular needs. For
         example, maintenance and janitorial staff are at special risk in handling waste. Nursing staff and
         nursing students (very important) could benefit from training relatedto the generation of medical
         waste.

    0    Involve outside consultants. Outside consultants should be involved in the presentation of
         training courses and subsequently to provide support to the Waste Management Commission in:
         (i) establishmentofaninitialworkplan,(ii)
            the                                           follow-up/correction, and (iii) evaluation.
                                                                                        final




G. Bibliography
Informe Ambiental and Social-BLD-D-0078 1997 [IADB Environmental and Social Report]
Marco Regulador Juridic0 SESPAS. [Legal Regulatory Framework]
Consideraciones Sobre Manejo de Residuos Sanitarios en Amirica Latina. OPSIOMS, 1992
[Considerations on Medical Waste Management in Latin America]
Manejo de 10s Residuos S6lidos Hospitalarios en la Republica Dominicana. UASD. 1992 [Mana,cement
of Hospitals' Solid Waste]
Managing Medical Wastes in Developing Countries. OMS, 1994.

                                                 80


Proyecto Ley General de Salud [Draft of General Health Law]
Ley General de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales [General Law on Environment and Natural
Resources]
Anilisis Comparativo Proyecto Ley General de Salud and Ley General. Sobre Medio Ambiente y
Recursos Naturales. PCU 2001 [Comparative Analysis of Draft of General Health Law and General Law
on Environment and NaturalResources]
Descriptivo TCcnico Incinerador Saunier Duval Setri Espafiola, SA [Technical Description of Saunier
Duval Setri Espafiola Incinerator]
WHO Information, Fact Sheets. Backgrounder No. 1. WHO 2000.
Boletin EstadisticoAiio 1, No.1-SESPAS2001 [Statistical Bulletinyear I]

                                                    81



 Current Legislation on Management of Environmental Risks of Civil Works in the Dominican
 Republic


 Until the year 2000 when the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resourceswas created through
 the passing of Law 64-00, the Dominican Republic did not have a set of environmental standards and
 regulations except for a series of codes and laws that dealt generally on certain environmentalaspects.

 In this portfolio a series of environmental standards and regulations are designed, discussed, and
approved and, as of today, the following have been designed and approved: "Air Quality Standards
and Control of Atmospheric Issues" establishing the maximum allowable pollutant values in the air
aimed at protecting the health of the general population, with special emphasis on the most vulnerable
groups; "Noise Protection Standards" establishing the maximum allowable levels as well as the
general requirements for protection against environmental noises produced by fixed and mobile
sources; "Solid Waste and Radioactive Waste Standards" establishing the guidelines for solid waste
management and the sanitary and management requirements to be met in the storage, collection,
transportation and final disposal of the same; "Water Quality and Discharge Control Standards" that
classify surface and coastal waters in accordance with their prevalent use, aimed at protecting the
quality of these bodies of water through the control of liquid effluents, both industrial and municipal,
public and private, produced by different human activities. On the subject of forests, the following
standards have been prepared: "Technical Standardsfor the Establishment and Certification of Forest
Plantations," "Technical Standardsfor Forest Management Plans,'' "National Transportation Route
of Forest Products", "Standards and Proceduresfor Forest Permits", "Regulationsfor Environmental
Permits and Licenses Systems," "Forest Regulations" and "Operational Regulationsfor the Wood
Processing Forest Industry in the Dominican Republic."

The Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources has not issued specific regulations with
regard to restrictions on building materials; on the other hand, the sector's regulatory entity, the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC) has issued 22 (twenty-two) regulatory
manuals of which only one, the M-20 "Environmental Manual for the Design and Construction of
Road Works," deals with specific aspects on environment preservation, that is, the construction aspect
which i s not part of the investments of our project.

EnvironmentalGuidelines to be used by Contractors for the Civil Works Components of the
Project

The conditionalities established in the technical specifications of the biddingdocuments for the public
works to be financed through the Health Sector Reform Support Project with regard to the materials to
be used in public works are based on the regulations contained in M-009 "General Specifications for
the Construction of Buildings" issued by the Ministry of Public Works; these are the current
regulations that establish the nature, origin and composition of materials, aggregatesand inputsused in
construction works.

This standard specifies the manner in which the construction of structures should be carried out, from
clearing the land up to the conclusion of the works. Certain environmental aspects are included in the
regulations, such as procedures for land clearing indicating the need to "conserve and protect trees,
shrubs or decorative plants located ~vitliinthe construction area;" indicating also the need to have the
corresponding permits for final disposal of waste products derived from clearing of land for the works.
With respect to building materials to be usedin the works, both for the composition of land fillings, as
well as for coarse and fine aggregates. it establishes the need that the latter be free from "organic

                                                    82



 matter, organic rubble, or other IzarinjLd materials" and, in the specific case of water, that it be `yree
from excessive quantities of organic matter, oils, colloids, alkalis, acid salts and other impurities."

 In addition to what has been formally established, there are certain restrictions observed through use
 and custom in the use of construction materials as is the case of roofing plates made with asbestos-
 cement, now in disuse since the public became aware of their polluting potential and the danger they
 represent to health.


 In regard to management of waste products derived from public works, the Environmental
 Standards for Solid Waste and Radioactive Waste of the Ministry of the Environment and
 Natural Resources, in its Article 5 "Technical Specifications", paragraph 5.1 "Prohibitions and
General Requirements", subparagraph 5.1.1, states: "The deposit or disposal of any type of solid
waste on roads or public areas, lots, vacant properties, sewerage systems, wells, and in any type of
open or closed space on state, municipal or private lands that has not been duly authorized for this
purpose in accordance with the Environmental Law and Standards, is hereby prohibited."


Likewise, the Standards designate the Municipal Councils of the different localities in the country
responsible for managing the final disposal of solid wastes.

Inthis regard, the section ontechnical specifications of the standarddocuments for the rehabilitation,
expansion, and substitution of physical infrastructure financed with Project funds states that: "The
Contractor will be equally responsiblefor obtaining the permits from the responsible authorities for
forest felling, as well asfor the disposal of waste materials in the sites authorizedfor thesepurposes."
This is a priority aspect in the supervision of works and one that is vigorously monitored by the local
authorities in our country.

Compliance with current legislation by contractors i s mandatory in the Dominican Republic, and i s
thus specified in the bidding documents for works under Section 3 "Conditions of the Contract",
paragraph 3.3 "Language and Applicable Law" and its provision in Section 4 of the "Special
Conditions of the Contract."

With respect to the safety of construction workers, the Dominican Republic ratified Agreement C-167
"On Safety and Health in Construction" approved at the session of the 75" Conference of the
International Labor Organization in Geneva on June 20, 1988, that became effective on January 11,
1991. This agreement includes recommendations on prevention and protection measures for the safety
of workers, and covers safety aspects of hand ladders and scaffolding; elevators and hoisting devices;
transportation vehicles and earth movement and manipulation of materials machinery; installations,
machines, equipment, and manual tools; works in heights, including roofs; excavations, wells,
ramparts, underground works, and tunnels; cofferdams and caissons; frames and casings; works above
water surface; demolition works; electricity and management of explosives.

This agreement sets conditionalities to diminishthe health risk to workers "exposed to any chemical,
physical or biological hazard to such extent that it may be dangerous to their health" and recommends
measures to prevent exposure. It also makes recommendations on precautions against fires, on clothes
and equipment for personal protection, first aid and declarations on accidents and diseases.

The recommendations in this agreement have been included in Dominican legislation, such as in the
following resolutions of the Secretariat of Labor:

         Resolution No. 34-91, which defines the content of first aid emergency kits in the work place.

                                                   83




        Resolution No. 02-93, which defines dangerous and unhealthful jobs in the work place and
        establishes the responsibility of the contracting party in providing workers with adequate
        means of personal protection to alleviate the existing danger or unhealthfulconditions.

        Resolution No. 03-93, which defines dangerous and unhealthful jobs for children.

With respect to those aspects concerning social protection of workers, the Dominican Social Security
System was created through Law 87-01, which was drafted with support from the Provincial Health
Systems Development Project, co financed by the World Bank, which establishes and regulates the
mutual rights and duties of the State and of citizens with regard to the financing of protection against
the risks of old age, disability, pension due to old age, protection of surviving dependents, disease,
maternity, infancy and occupational risks.

The responsibility of the Contractor regarding occupational risks is established in the bidding
documents for public works to be financed by the project, Section 3 "Conditions of the Contract",
paragraph 11, "Risks of the Contracting Party," and insurance obligations on behalf of workers is also
established in the same section, paragraph 13 and its provision in Section 4 of the "Special Conditions
of the Contract."

These regulations will be included as an Annex to the Operating Manual of the Project (effectiveness
condition), as well as part of the biddingdocuments for public works.

                                                      84


  Site screening criteria capable of detecting the possibility of environmental or social impacts
  from the rehabilitation or construction of health facilities such as involuntary resettlement,
  presence of historical monuments, cemeteries or other physical cultural aspects, and critical
  naturalhabitats.


  Health facilities to be covered under the proposed project. The implementation of the Support to
  the Health Sector ReformProject (PARSS, in Spanish) will encompass 17 (seventeen) provinces inthe
  111, IV, VI, VI1 and VI1 Health Regions, which include 311(three hundred eleven) Health Ministry
  facilities, 57 (fifty-seven) of which have hospitalization services and the remaining 254 (two hundred
  fifty-four) are ambulatory, distributed as follows:

 Health Region                          Province Facilities with beds      Ambulatory facilities
                         MariaTrinidad Sinchez               5                       16
                         Samani                              3                       12
                         Salcedo                             3                       7
                         Duarte                              4                       38
                         Bahoruco                            3                       8
           *-
           I V           Barahona                            5                       16
                         Pedernales                          1                       3
                                                             3                       13
I           --
           V I
           I           I Independencia Mamana I
                         San Juan de la  "                   4          I            25            I
                         Comendador                          3                       7
                                                                                     17
I                      I Daiab6n
                           J                      ,          3                                     I

          VI1            Montecristi                         5                       18
                       I ValverdeRodriguez                   2                       12
                         Santiago                 I          3          I            9             I
                        L a Vega                             4                       33
          VI11          Monseiior Nouel                      3                       9
                        SAnchez Ram'rez                      3                       11
                                        TOTAL               57                      254


 Civil works financed under ongoing Provincial Health Services Project. The geographical scope
 of the Provincial Health Systems Development Project, was comprised by the 111, IV and VI1 health
 regions, giving priority among them to region IV formed by the Barahona, Bahoruco, Independencia
 and Pedemales provinces, and as a result of the integral development of the implementation strategies
 of the project, this region has beenthe entry point of the new Dominican social security system.

 The objective of the interventions to improve the infrastructure within the framework of the Provincial
 Health Systems was to enhance the response capacity of health facilities that faced physical plant and
 equipment problems, after determining the level of complexity of the facility according to the role it
 will fulfill in the delivery network. In this regard, the first stage of the execution of the component
 included a preliminary diagnosis and the activities leading to the creation of a planimetric file of the
 health facilities.

 Subsequently, field visits were undertaken to ascertain the basic intervention needs, which determined
 the prevalence of the following problems: ceiling leaks, deficiencies in sanitary and electric systems,
 inoperability in Emergency area, as well as in the Obstetrics area and waste disposal in facilities with
 bed; also, general rehabilitation needs in rural ambulatory centers.

                                                    85




 As a result of the PDSPS, there is now a Planimetric file in CAD platform containing all the
 ambulatory centers in the 111, IV and VI1 Health Regions, totaling 169 (one hundred sixty-nine), as
 well as 26 (twenty-six) facilities with bed.

 In this regard, fifty-one (51) interventions were carried out through shopping processes and twelve
 (12) through Local Competitive Bidding processes, aimed at improving serious problems such as
 ceiling leaks in nine (9) facilities with bed; improvement of water supplies, drainage, and electrical
 installations in eleven (1 1) facilities with beds; functional rehabilitation in Emergency and
 Gynecology/Obstetrics areas in nine (9) facilities with beds; expansions and general rehabilitation in
 eleven (11) rural ambulatory facilities; substitution of one (1) provincial hospital and four (4)
 ambulatory facilities; rehabilitation and/or expansion works infour (4) Provincial Health Departments;
conversions for the implementation of MIS and VE in eleven (11) facilities with beds; functional
conversions in seven (7) operational units at the SESPAS central level; in addition to installation of
solid waste management system in ten (10) facilities with beds.

With respect to interventions for the improvement of solid waste management, double chamber
pyrolytic-static type incinerators were acquired, with standards required by the World Health
Organization. This equipment decomposes the waste in the first chamber through a thermal
combustion process in an oxygen-poor environment, aprocess that reduces waste volumes between 85
and 95% without need of prior treatment to its incineration and processes waste containing 40-60%
moisture; in a second reaction chamber, these unbumed gases are forced to circulate in close union to
a large input of secondary air, i.e. in a very oxidant atmosphere, they post-combust, all this with the
assistance of a bumer that maintains a minimum temperature of 1000C at all times. This bumer
regulates its operation through a thermocouple-regulator, which is programmed at the adequate
temperature inthe process.

Complementing the acquisition of the equipment, within the incidental services included with the
acquisition of the incinerators, was the training of at least three (3) persons per hospital in the
operation and maintenance of the equipment, as well as in the identification and solution of low
complexity operational problems; training of hospital personnel (20 per facility) in hospital
management of sanitary waste; recommendations per facility for packaging instead of production of
sanitary wastes, including the supply of color-coded containers for the first year of operation.

Civil works investments contemplated under the proposed project. The interventions to be carried
out within the scope of the PARSS will include similar aspects to those of the PHSP. To date, the
interventions pendingimplementation in the 111,IV and VII health regions have been identified, where
waterproofing will be carried out in three (3) facilities with bed; general functional rehabilitation
works that will include expansions in the Emergency and GynecologylObstetrics areas in at least
thirteen (13) facilities with bed; substitution of two (2) facilities with bed and general rehabilitation
works in approximately twelve (12) ambulatory facilities. In the rest of the regions of the new project,
that is, regions VI and VIII, interventions are planned in seventeen (17) facilities with bed and thirty
(30) ambulatory facilities.

It is important to point out that, as observed during the implementation of the Provincial Health
Services Project and based on recent evaluations made by the Project team, it is expected that the
environmental and social impacts resulting from the execution of public works during the
implementation of the new project will be minimal, in view of the following: for the most part health
system facilities are located in rural centers with low population density; the vast majority of the
interventions are rehabilitation works within the interior of the facilities, thus they will not affect the
activities nor the traffic in the neighborhoods; substitution of facilities i s carried out prior to the

                                                   86


demolition of those existing in the same location, thus acquisition of new land implying resettlements
or new environmental impact assessments are not foreseen. The project's Operations Manual will
include World Bank guidelines and framework in the event of any resettlement causedby the project,
alongside guidelines for small construction works and for improving biomedical waste management
and disposal inthe participating institutions.

As indicated previously, programming of works for the new project includes the updating of
procedures for supervision of works with the inclusion of the regulations in force, and in detail in the
biddingand contractingdocuments for the protection of the environment and occupational safety.

InvestmentsProposedunderthe Projectto ImproveMedicalWaste Management

As done with the support of the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project, resources would be
allocated under Component Ito assist participating health facilities in project areas, as needed, in the:
(i)undertakingofassessmentofmedicalcarewastehandlinganddisposal; (ii)             updating of manual to
address proper handling and disposal of medical wastes; (iii)   rehabilitation of infrastructure and the
installation of equipment in the main local hospitals for the disposal of medical wastes; and (iv)
training of health personnel in the application of standards to protect patients, health workers, and the
community.

Public Consultation

The Project PCU's has held several meetings during project preparation with public, private and
nongovernmental sectoral stakeholders grouped under the National Health Council to discuss and
obtain feedback on project objectives, components, assessments (including technical, environmental,
and economic and financial assessments), and implementation strategies. The consultation program
has involved both formal and informal presentations and meetings with the target groups. More
recently, in a National Health Council meeting held on May 2, 2003, presided by the Secretary of
Health, the latest version of the PAD was reviewed and the proposed standards and guidelines for
project implementation and required investments were endorsed.

                                                                        87




                                                                Annex 2.c.
                             Dominican RepublicHealth ReformSupport Program

                                       Donor's Assistance in the Health Sector

On average, public sector spending on health for the period 1996-1999 was 2.0% of GDP. This is a
low percentage compared with the average public spending in the LAC Region (3.2%), or in countries
of similar per capita income such as Costa Rica (5.2%), Panama(4.9%) or Jamaica (3.2%)6.


Health expenditure is financed by a mix of national budget allocations (65%), private funding(3 1.4%)
and external sources (3.70%)7.Although low in absolute terms, external funding has increased over
time. According to the preliminary results provided by the 2002 DR Red Book, in 2002, the country
could count on approximately US$364.25 million in current and projected loan and grant
commitments, that is almost 9% of external funds made available to the country by multilateral and
bilateral cooperation agencies (See table 1).
                           Table 1: HealthAssistance providedby externaldonors

                                                                      Undrrbmrd                 Expensed                           To Be >kpirpcnsed

    Secrur   T ~han~
                   ~ a,d L
                         Iiidrcnuve Loan CommrwenrsInd'cauve         aIttounI as of  Calendar ~ e o r Cakndar i'ear    Calendar       Catendor      Calendar
               C"7lS                                                  JIN2IZ0OO          2001            2002          Yeor 2003     Year 2004      Year 2005

                0.W                  0.00              000                 w             ~~                ~~




                                                            ~             0              0.W             0.W             0.W            0.00          0.00
                3.13                 0.00              3.13               0.00           OW              0.36            1.08            1.03         103
               068                   0.00              0.68               0.00           0.W             0.00            OW             0.23          0.18
               4.42                   2.82             I.60               0 36           0.49            0 33            0.40           0.40          0.40
               0.W                   0.00              0.W               33.77            7 66           4.90            2.90           2.90          2 YO
               0.33                  0.00              0.00               OW             000             0.00            0.W            0.W           0.W
               9.58                  0.00              9.58               9.58           0 50              3.06          1 I O          0.00          0.M)
               l5.W                  0.00              1S.W               0.00            3.00             3.W           3.00           3 W           300
               II5 40                0.00             lI5.10             57 45            5 80             7.W           17.30          17.60        20.70
               0.00                  000               0.00               OW             0.00              0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
               38.59                 0.00             38 59              38.29           035                1.80         8.33           8.03          599
               40.05                 90.00             0.05               10.50           6 51             8.40          18.03          1386          0.00
               6I.20                 61.20             OW                45.86           9.32            11.29           10.50          14.75         0.W

               26.21                 000              26.21               4 30            5.30             3.83          10.26          9.04          2.22

               0.00                  000               0.W                0.W             0.00             0.03          0.00            OW           0.W

'rmi                 >M.3                    154.02         2111.2.1          Z0ll.l1         .4X.W            4.*.(,6      7 2 . 9 ~      7n.w          .II~.J~
  Source: 2002 DR Redbook(preliminary results-validation in process)

All the major donor agencies (USAID, IDB, EU, and the World Bank) are supporting the
government's modernization sector of the health sector with complex reform projects* calling for
separation of functions, decentralization and deconcentration, institutional strengthening at central and
local level, and incentives to link salaries and budget to performance.

Although sharing common objectives, and advocating for a common approach to reform, coordination
among said projects has often been difficult to achieve, thus hampering the pace of a coherent health


'Source:Central
          Central Bank (2002)
  Source:         Bank (1996)
  More precisely: USAID committed USDl15.14 million through their Health Strategy and Health Programs.
while IBRD's commitments amount to USD90.05 million through the ongoing 1272-DO Provincial Health and
706.50-DO HIV-AIDS Prevention and Control Program, in addition to the proposed Health Reform Program
APLl presented in this PAD. Finally. IDB's presence is limited to a USD61.20 million Health Sector
Modernizationand Restructuring Project. while EU's grant commitments are currently at USD38.59 million, out
of which USD12.90 million refer to the Health Modernization ReformPrqject.

                                                     88


modernization process. To reduce duplication of efforts and resources, the donors agreed to deepen
their coordination, at least at the policy level, by means of periodic sector roundtables chaired by the
European Union.

Although at a very preliminary stage, dialogue seems to have improved and a clear awareness to
promote a common stance towards reform has been emerging. Donors have recently agreed on a
common platform of indicators to monitor advances towards achieving the MDGs, an initiative that
has been welcomed by the Technical Secretary of the Presidency as a first, though important, step
towards the elaboration of national MDG strategy. Yet, the Government wants to stredngthen the
coordination among donors and - following the example of the education sector - is preparing a 10-
year Development Plan for Health Sector Reform as a management tool to coordinate donor strategies
and resources and to reduce duplication of efforts. The IO-year Plan would spell out the respective
areas of responsibility for each donor, the willingness of each donor to accept that responsibility, for
how long, under what conditions, with what kind and size of financial support (with or without cost
sharing), and the commitment to coordinate with other donors.

                                             89




                                          Annex 3

                        DominicanRepublicHealthReformSupportProgram

                                   EstimatedProjectCosts

   ANNEX 3A: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
   DominicanRepublic,HealthReformSupport APL
                                            US$ Million




   1. EXTENSIONOF HEALTHSERVICES COVERAGE                 15.34   10.63  25.97
   2. IMPLEMENTATIONOF HEALTHSECTOR REFORM
   LEGISLATION                                                    2.44   7.20
   3. IMPROVEMENTOF SELECTEDPUBLICHEALTH
   FUNCTIONS                                              1:::    0.60   2.66
                                                        ~

   4. PROJECTMANAGEMENTAND IMPACTAPPRAISAL
   NEXTPHASE                                              5.35     1.23  6.58

                                   TOTALPROJECTCOSTS      27.51   14.90  42.41
                                          FRONT-ENDFEE            0.30   0.30
                               TOTAL FINANCINGREOUIRED    27.5 1  15.20  42.71


-1 ANNEX 3B: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTSBY CATEGORY
   US$ Million
                                 ESTIMATED SOURCE OF FUNDING
       PROJECTCOSTS PER            COST

   Works                             9.46      5.68       3.78      60
   Goods:
          Hardware I Software        3.11      2.02       1.09       65
          MedicaVBiomedical
          Equip                      6.82      4.43       2.39       65
          VaccinesNed supplies       0.60      0.39       0.21       65
          Furniture                  1.21      0.78       0.42       65
          Materials                  0.47      0.30       0.16       65
   Consulting Services:
          Firms                      4.48      3.58       0.89       80
          Individuals                7.10      5.68       1.42       80

  Training                           7.91      6.33       1.58       80

  Incremental Operational Costs      1.15      0.50       0.75      40

  Front-End Fee                      0.30      0.30       0.00      100

  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              42.71       30.00      12.71
                                               70%

                                                   90


                                                Annex 4

                        DominicanRepublicHealthReformSupport Program

                                    Economic andFinancialAnalysis



The first phase of the project is expected to produce significant reductions in maternal and child
mortality and morbidity in the target population in regions 111, IV, VI, VI1 and VIII, accounting for
about 2.2 million persons. The principal means of accomplishing this would be through an extension
of the basic health package, focused on the disadvantaged segment of the population. This would be
reflected in the number of deaths prevented by the availability of the first phase extension of the
program. Table 1shows the number of prevented deaths by year, in the project area. It is assumed that
the benefit lags by one year behind the provision of the health service.
Numbers of deaths prevented have been calculated as the reduction inthe mortality rates assumed for
the project, multipliedby the population in Regions 111, IV,VI, VII, and VIII, in the respective group,
for the project years, 2003-2007. These are crude rates and do not account for accidental deaths or
morbidity reductions short of death.




Estimating the monetary valuation of this result builds on the human capital approach. It is assumed
that benefits would not occur before the second year of project implementation (2004) and those
economic gains of the life that is preserved extend over 30 years. Current GDP per capita, adjusted for
the average annual growth over the period 1982 to 2001 i s used as the basis for the monetary weights
for future life years saved. As the targeted population i s among the poorer segments of society,
however, only 90% of this average i s assumed in the calculation. Future eamings are discounted in
order to assess the value of the project in terms of its present value. Monetary values are assigned to
saved, productive adult life years only (that is when the individual reached the ages 15 to 55). The
estimated present values of the prevented deaths by project year are given in Table 2. Overall, the
Dominican economy may be considered to gain a minimum of about US$ 167 million in discounted
present value terms as a result of the project.
These results reflect reductions in under-5 and maternal mortality only and do not account for the
likely mortality reductions in the rest of the population, which would also benefit from abatement in
the diseaseburden, generated by improved access to health care.
In addition, these benefits account only for the direct and short term effects on mortality of program
activities, and do not account for the longer term benefits accruing to improved public health services,
nor improvements in heath system efficiency and efficacy also supported under phase 1.

                                                       91




Source                   20031        20041       20051         20071        20071ITotal
Maternal                    0          934         1824         2668         3094            8520
Infants                     0         16260      30795         43533       48618          139205
Child 1-5                   0         2194        4187          5968         6729          19078
Total                       0         19388      36806         52168       58440          166803


Alternative Scenarios
Two additional scenarios have been examined; one (pessimistic) assuming that productive life would
be significantly shorter for the lives saved, leadingto a higher discount rate on future earnings; a lower
than projected impact on maternal mortality, and a lower monetary value to the life-years saved. A
second (optimistic) scenario assumes infinite productive life, the full achievement of project outcomes
and monetary value of productive lives equal to the projected national average. The aggregate net
present value of these scenarios are compared to the base case inTable 3


                                    Table 3 Sensitivity of Project Benefits




Note: * reflects average GDP deflator over the period 1992to2001

CostBenefit Assessment

The estimated cost for the first phase of the pro gram (APL1) is US$ 42 million, including
contingencies. Of this amount, US25.2 million would be for the expansion of health care services in
the targeted area, focused on the provision of the basic packagefor the disadvantaged.

                                        Table 4. Cost-Benefits Ratios
                               (calculated as benefit, Table 3, divided by cost)
Assumptions                       Likely case benefit    1Pessimistic case benefit  Optimistic case benefit
Benefit inTargeted           I1 1: 6.6                                            II1:14.6
Regions related costs in
targeted region(US$25.2
million)
Benefit inTargeted              1:4.0                     1:0.9                     1:8.8
Regions related to full cost
o f APL I(US$42 million)

                                                   92


The "likely case" scenario would produce a benefit that significantly exceeded the cost of the
provision of the services in the targeted area (CB ratio of 1:6.6) as well as the cost of the full first
phase program (CB ratio of 1:4.0). Compared to the "optimistic" scenario, these cost-benefit rations
would be much smaller. Lastly, in the case of the "pessimistic" scenario, the cost benefit ration of the
direct benefit and the direct service cost would be distinctly favorable (CB ratio of 1:1.5) while the
ratio with respect to the full phase cost would be only marginally unfavorable (CB ratio of 0.9: 1).

FinancialSustainability

Recurrent incremental annual post project costs of the project are estimated to be US$3.7 million, net
of personnel costs, and excluding project specific administrative costs assuming replacements andor
maintenance o f
                     a. Works; 10%of investment per annum (pa) (US$946,000pa)
                     b. Hardware and software; 10%of investment pa (US$324,000pa)
                     c.   Medical equipment; 20% of investment pa (US$1,338,000pa)
                     d. Materials; 20% of costs pa(US$309,000pa) and
                     e. Training, 10%of project costs pa (US$814,000pa).

Post project incrementalcosts in regions covered by the project (111, IV,VI, VII, VIII), net of national
personnel and project administration costs, are estimated to be about US$3.0 million assuming
replacements andor maintenanceof
                     f. Works; 10%ofinvestmentpa(US$767,OOOpa)
                     g. Hardware and software; 10%of investment pa (US$245,000pa)
                     h. Medical equipment; 20% of investment pa(US$1,337,000pa)
                     i. Materials;20%ofcostspa(US$70,000pa)and
                     j. Training, 10%ofprojectcostspa(US$485,000pa).

The 2003 budget of SESPAS is about US$225 million, of which about US$ 158 million would be
national personnel costs and US$67 million is for non-personnel costs. The annual incremental post
project cost of the project would be about 1.6% increase in the total budget and a 5.5% of this non-
personnel budget, which would be financially sustainable.

The 2003 budget of the 5 regions included in the project i s US$60 million, of which US$42 million is
estimated to be personnel and US$18 million, non-personnel costs. The annual post project
incremental cost would represent an increase of 5% increase in the total budget and 17% in the non-
personnel budget or these regions. Considering the priority being given to poor regions, GODR should
be able to accommodate the cost increasescreated by the project.

                                           93


                                        Annex 5

                     DominicanRepublicHealth Reform Support Program

                                  Financial Summary

            Project Financing for Years of First Phase (US$ Million)


                                        Implementa
                                        I
                               Year 1      Year 2     Year 3     Year 4
   PROJECTCOSTS                         I




           Investment Costs     7.41       11.51        13.07     8.56  40.55
           Recurrent Costs      0.40       0.46         0.52      0.48   1.86


   TOTAL PROJECTCOSTS           7.8 1      1I .97       13.59     9.04  42.41


           Front-endFee         0.30                                     0.30


   TOTAL FINANCING
 REQUIRED                       8.11       11.97        13.59     9.04  42.7 1
                                19%        28%          32%       21%



Financing Sources

IBRD/IDA                                     30.00
Government of the Dominican Republic         12.71
Total Project Financing                      42.71

                                                    94




                                                Annex 6.a

                        DominicanRepublicHealthReformSupportProgram

                                       ProcurementArrangements

A. Procurement

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999);and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999,
January 1999 and May 2002), and the provisions stipulated inthe Loan Agreement.

Procurement Responsibility: The CERSS'PCU would be responsible for the overall procurement
regulation and supervision activities, in compliance with procedures agreed with the World Bank as
stated in the Loan Agreement and the Operations Manual. The CERSS'PCU has successfully
coordinated the implementation of the Provincial Health Services Project and has supported the startup
implementation of the HN/AIDS Prevention and Control Project. The Project's participating agencies
and entities-SESPAS,      SISARIL, and SENASA-would         present to the CERSS'PCU yearly action and
procurement plans, satisfactory to the World Bank, although the administrative, financial management
and procurement responsibilities for the implementation of the project would remain in the
CERSS'PCU. Specifics of the solicitation, evaluation and awards, and contracting processes are
contained in the Operations Manual. The CERSS' PCU will also coordinate with the participating
agencies and entities the implementation of several project component activities.

UNDP would assist the project in major procurement activities as it has been supporting the Provincial
Health Services Project (Loan 4272-DO). The government would assume the costs of the administrative
fees charged by UNDP from its own resources. In addition, the GODR is exploring with UNDP the
possibility of bridge financing to support startup implementation after loan signing and before
effectiveness.

Procurement of vaccines and other medical supplies needed for immunization campaigns may be
procured through direct contracting with PAHO and should comply with para. 3.9 of the World Bank
Guidelines. PAHO would submit the current market surveys for World Bank review as means of
providing evidence of usingcompetitive market prices. Although Cuba is a PAHO member country, it
i s not an eligible country for provision of vaccines or any other goods/services financed out of the loan
proceeds. PAHO would sign an agreement with the Government acceptable in advance to the World
Bank and would submit to the World Bank for its review the plan for distribution of the drugs and
medical supplies purchased.


B. Procurementmethods

A procurement plan would be prepared along with the annual work plan. The procurement plan for
each year would be submitted by the Government to the World Bank for approval, not later than
October of the previous year and would use a pre-defined standard format which would list as a
minimum: (i)goods and services to be procured for the year; (ii)their value; (iii)the method of
procurement; and (iv) the timetable for carrying out the procurement.

                                                    95


The tentative methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for
each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are
fixed in Table B.

a) Procurement of Works

Works procured under the Project would include the construction and refurbishing of some selected
health facilities totaling $9.5 million. Civil works totaling over US$3 million will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding using World Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).
Civil works contracts totaling over US$250,000 but less than US$3 million may be procured using
National Competitive (NCB) procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$4.4 million using standard
biddingdocuments agreed in advance with the World Bank. Small works costing less than US$250,000
up to an aggregate amount of USs5.1 million may be procured on the basis of at least three quotations,
received in response to a written invitation to qualified contractors, which will consist of a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the World Bank, and relevant drawings, when applicable.

b) Procurement of Goods

Goods procured under this Program would include medicines and vaccines, laboratory and medical
equipment and supplies, computer and office equipment, and educational and campaign publications
totaling US$11.6 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for goods (except for vaccines
and related medical supplies for immunization campaigns) will be grouped into bidding packages of
more than US$250,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Goods (except for vaccines and
vaccine campaign supplies) with estimated values below this threshold per contract may be procured
using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$6.9 million,
using standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Contracts for goods (except for
vaccines and vaccine campaign supplies) which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and
estimatedto cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.3 million, may
be procured using National /International shopping procedures based on at least three quotations
received in response to a model request for quotations which will include detailed technical
specifications, required delivery date, guarantees and conditions and a basic form of agreement
satisfactory to the World Bank.

Procurement of vaccines and vaccine related supplies would be procured through direct contracting
through PAHO up to an aggregate amount of US$0.6 million.

c) Selection of Consultants
Consulting services would be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: studies,
IEC campaigns, surveys, technical assistance and training, monitoring and impact evaluation,
development and maintenance of information systems and workshops. These services are estimated to
cost US$l1.6 million equivalent and would be procured using World Bank Standard Request for
Proposals and mutually agreed documents.


         Firms. All contracts for firms estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more, and NGOs would be
selected using Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS); all contracts estimated to cost US$200,000or
less may be selected from all national candidates. other smaller and simple contracts estimated to cost
less than US$lOO.OOO would be selected based on the Qualification of the Consultants or Least Cost
Selection (LC).

                                                  96



-        Individuals. Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants
selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.5 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$7.1
mi11ion.

d ) Training.

Training activities to be financed under the project would include (a) developing training programs to
trainhetrain and to increase the management capacity of the managers of the network facilities and
regulatory levels: central, regional and provincial; (b) implementing and consolidating management
information systems already developed under the first project; (c) strengthening SESPAS' information
systems, (d) developing and implementing quality assurance systems and institution-specific quality
enhancement plans, and (e) introducing accreditation and licensing of health care providers to raise the
quality of services provided. These services are estimated to cost ~ ~ $ 7 million, equivalent to be
                                                                               . 9
delivered both by firms and individuals in accordance with the provisions of the World Bank
Guidelines.

e) OperationalCosts

Sundry items, utilities and general operating costs would be procuredby the CERSS'PCU usingWorld
Bank procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million equivalent.

Prior review thresholds. The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement
capacity assessmentof the PCU and are summarized inTable B.

C. Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

The implementation of the Program would be coordinated by the CERSS'PCU, currently in charge of
managing implementation of on-going World Bank- and IDB- financed projects. I t s Financial and
Administrative team also supervises and oversees all the procurement and financial activities of the
HIV/AIDS PreventionandControl Project.

The Operations Manual would include among others, the terms of reference for each staff of the
CERSS'PCU, procurement procedures for goods and works, selection of consultants, and filing and
monitoring system. Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement procedure,
Consultant Selection methods, as well as a description of responsibilities and flow of authority between
the CERSS'PCU and the participatingagencies and entities.

The Regional Procurement Advisor approved the Procurement Capacity Assessment on May 12, 2003.

Most of the issues concerning the CERSS'PCU have been considered and implemented by negotiations.
They included: (i)need to appoint additional procurement support staff; and (ii)     the need to clearly
outline in the Operations Manual the flow of interaction and responsibilities between the CERSS'PCU
and the participating agencies and entities. The Operations Manual also specifies the procurement
documents to be filed, the CERSS'PCU staff that would have access to the files, and the internal
security measures for record keeping.

The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE given the proven transparency, capacity and
knowledge of the procurement team.

                                                 97


D. Procurement Plan,MonitoringandFiling

The Borrower has presenteda general tentative procurement plan for the four years of the project and a
detailed one for the first year implementation on the basis of aggregate amounts for the procurement
methods (Table A). At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower would update the
Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year. The Operations Manual
describes the procurement monitoring and filing systems that should be available to supervision
missions from the World Bank and auditors upon request.

E. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from World Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the CERSS'PCU has recommended one full supervision mission to visit the field to carry
out post review of procurement actions once every 12 months. Based on the overall risk assessment
(AVERAGE) the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 20 contracts
signed.

F.      ProcurementAudits

A procurement audit would be performed in conjunction with the financial audit annual audit of the
Project.

                                                        98




                                  Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                                (in US$millionequivalent)



   Expenditure Category                                 Procurement Method                  Total Cost

                                    ZCB       NCB            Other          N.B.F

   1. Works                                        4.4            5.1''                          9.5
        i                                         (2.5)          (3.2)                           (5.7)
   2. Goods                                                      -
      Computers hardware/              2.4         6.9            2.3                            11.6
      software, Medical/              (1.6)       (4.5)          (1.4)                           (7.5)
      biomedical Equipment,
      furniture & materials
   3. Vaccines and related                                        0.6 c/                          0.6
       supplies                                                  (0.4)                           (0.4)
   4. Consultant Services                                        11.6                            11.6
                                                                 (9.3)                           (9.3)
   5 Training                                                     7.9                             7.9
                                                                 (6.3)                           (6.3)
   6. Operating Costs                                              1.2                            1.2
                                  ~~




                                                                 (0.5)                           (0.5)
   7. Front-end Fee                                               0.3                             0.3
                                                                 (0.3)                           (0.3)
      Total                           2.4         11.3          29.0                            42.7
                                      (1.6)       (7.0)         (21.4)                          (30.0)

Note: N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed (includes elements procuredunder parallel co-financing procedures, consultancies
      under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
      Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loadIDA credit

      Footnotes:
      a. Three quotations
      b. Shopping(National and International)
      c. Direct purchase of vaccines from PAHO
      d. Consultants Services: Details provided inTable A-1
      e. Training includes Consultants and Logistics through the applicable competitive process.

                                                  99


                    Annex 6, TableAl: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                          (in US$million equivalent)



ExpenditureCategorj




                                               0         (0.8)     (1.8)     (5.5)        (9.3) I
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
        QBS = Quality-based Selection
        SFB =Selection under a Fixed Budget
        LCS = Least-Cost Selection
        CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.

                                                100




         Expenditure            Contract Valw             Procurement           Contracts Subjecl
           Category                  (Threshold)            Method                 Prior Review
                                US $ thousands                                     US$ millions
1. Works                        >3.0                           ICB         All
                                <3.0 - >.250                   NCB         First2 contracts
                                     >.250               Three Quotations None
2. Goods
                              >250                             ICB       I All                    I
                               >50 < 250                       NCB         First2 contracts
                               <50                          Shopping       None

3. Consultants
Firms                         >loo                            QCBS         All

                              <loo                QCSS, Qualification of None (post review)
                                                  Consultants, Least Cost


Individuals                   >50                 See Section V of         All (TOR, contract, CV)
                                                  Guidelines
                               <50                See Section V of         None (Post Review)
                                                  Guidelines


Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
                    High
                    Average
                                    ~


                    Low

Frequency of procurement post-review supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months, reviewing a
sample of 1in20 contracts signed.

                                               101


                              Table C. Allocation of LoanProceeds

      ExpenditureCategory           Amount in US$million       FinancingPercentage
Works                                      5,680,000        60%

Goods:                                     7,770,000        65%
(a) Hardware and software
(b) Medical/Biomedical
Equipment     '
(c) Furniture, materials

(d) Vaccinedand related supplie            390,000          80% until total
                                                            expenditures under this
                                                            subcategory have reachedan
                                                            amount equivalent to
                                                            US$120,000, and 60%
                                                            thereafter.

Consultants'                              15380,000         80%
Services and training (including
audits)

Incremental OperatingCosts                 500,000          50% until total
                                                            expenditures under this
                                                            category have reachedan
                                                            amount equivalent to
                                                            US$300,000, and 30%
                                                            thereafter.
Premia for Interest Rate Caps and              0            4mount due under Sectior
Interest Rate Collars                                       2.09(c) of this Agreement



Front-endfee                               300,000          Amount under Section 2.04
                                                            of this Agreement

Total                             I       30.000.00

                                                    102


                                                    Annex 6.b

                         FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

 A financial management assessment was carried out on February 11-14, 2003, to assess the adequacy
 of the financial management arrangements in place at the CERSS'PCU.            The assessment was
performed in accordance with World Bank requirements under OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for
Financial Management Assessments issuedby the Financial Management Board in September 2001.

On the basis of the assessment performed, the financial management team concludes that, upon
completion of the proposed action plan, the financial management arrangements of the PCU would
satisfy the World Bank's minimum financial management requirements. Therefore, the team would
advise that the conditions listed in the assessment be considered as conditions of effectiveness in the
Legal Agreement to be prepared and signed with the Borrower.
FundsFlow

Procedures for the flow of funds from the loan and the required counterpart contribution should be
implemented with due regard to safeguarding the project's resources and ensuring timely execution of
payments.

Due to the experience of the CERSS'PCU with SOE-based disbursement procedures under the
Provincial Health Services Project and the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project, the SOE
method would be used to replenish funds to the Special Account. Traditional disbursement methods
would be used to drawn funds from the loan and Financial Management Reports (FMR) will be used
to monitor project implementation on a quarterly basis.

The CERSS'PCU would be in-charge of maintaining, operating and reporting on the Special Account.
The CERSS'PCU would also operate a Program Account for the purpose of receiving counterpart
funds from the government as well as a transitory account for funds disbursed from the Special
Account for the Bank's share of eligible expenditures for which the PCU i s responsible. Similarly
each participating agency and entity would also operate its own Program Account for the purpose of
receiving counterpart funds and from the Special Account as payments to suppliers come due for the
World Bank's share of eligible expenditure. All Program Accounts will be opened at the Banco de
Reservas.

As eligible expenditures are incurred in accordance with agreed annual work plans for each
participating agency and entity, as well as for the PCU. The CERSS'PCU would withdraw the amount
to be financed by loan funds from the Special Account, and initiate a transfer from the SA to the
Treasury. Once the funds are cleared, the Treasury would inform the CERSS'PCU that a check in
Dominican Pesos i s available for pick up. The PCU then picks up the check at Treasury and deposits
itinto the corresponding ProgramAccount.

Counterpart funding would be provided by the GODR. The amount of counterpart funds anticipated
for the first four years of the APL is US$12.71 million.

In order to obtain counterpart funds, the CERSS'PCU submits its annual budget request and the
approved funding levels are included in the annual budget. In the past, projects in the Dominican
Republic have experienced problems obtaining their allocation for counterpart funds. Therefore it is
recommended that prior to effectiveness, the government deposit in a separate project account, the

                                                     103


counterpart funds corresponding to the first 6 months of the first year of implementation of the
Program.
Staffing

The CERSS' PCU includes the following staff members:
     ..
     .    Program Coordinator,
          Financial Management Director
     ..   Procurement Manager
          Accountant
          Accounting Clerk
          Administrative Assistant
     m    Secretary

The Project Coordinator, the Financial Management Director and the Procurement Manager have all
have extensive experience with World Bank policies and procedures. Therefore the staff assigned to
the CERSS'PCU is considered to be qualified and capable of handling all financial management
aspects of the Program.


AccountingPolicies andProcedures

Accounting and administrative procedures would be in place as sections of the Operations Manual to
ensure that financial transactions are made with consideration to safeguarding project assets and
ensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring systems. The CERSS'PCU's accounting system
has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions in accordance with World Bank
recommended procedures and it can produce financial statements useful to for management and that
meet the World Bank's fiduciary requirements.

Project Operations Manual. Policies and procedures defined in an Operational Manual should aim
to control project activities and ensure staff accountability. The CERSS'PCU intends to use the same
policies and procedures used for the Provincial Health Services Project and the HIV/ALDS Control and
PreventionProject.

The Financial Management section of the Operations Manual was in draft form at the date of the
assessmentand appearedto include all Bank recommended procedures. The participating agencies and
entities would be required to prepare operations and accounting manuals with the same policies and
procedures where applicable.

Segregation of duties. The CERSS'PCU organizational structure and established procedures support
an adequate segregation of procurement, accounting and recording activities. The authorization to
execute a transaction is the main responsibility of the Program Coordinator. The recording of the
transaction and monthly reconciliation are the main responsibility of the Accountant and are
supervised by the Financial Management Coordinator.

Annual Work PlansBudgeting. The loan agreement, the procurement plan, the implementationplan
and the cost tables would provide the main input for the annual work plans. The PCU would prepare
an annual budget and work plan. It is anticipated that the participating agencies and entities would
also prepare annual work plans with the assistance of the CERSS'PCU. The annual work plans will
serve as the basis for transferring funds from the SA to each participating agency and entity's Program
Account. The work plans will include:

                                                    104




          An annual execution plan classified by major goal/objectives, including physical and
          financial programs.     It i s  important to note that these goals and objectives must be
          measurable and quantifiable within a reasonableperiodof time (i.e., one to three months).
          A budget proposal (broken down at least quarterly) specifying the detailed expenditures by
          major component, category and sources of funds.

Each quarter, the CERSS'PCU would produce monitoring reports (FMRs) to assess progress against
financial and physical goals to be shared with the Program Coordinator. These reports would also be
presented to the World Bank on a quarterly basis.

Payments and operation of bank accounts. Before payments for acquisition of goods, services or
civil works are processed by the PCU, a purchase order andor contract must exist. On the basis of
these documents, payment requests are prepared and after approval has been obtained payment is
issued, provided that there i s available funds.

After the Accountant has prepared the payment requests, the authorized signatories would sign the
bank draft or check.      The PCU would initiate payment by sending a check issued from the
CERSS'PCU's Program Account or by send a direct payment request to the Bank in the case of
intemational vendors.

Bank account reconciliation would be prepared on a monthly basis by the Accountant and reviewed by
the Financial Management Director.

The participating agencies and entities would be required to follow the same accounting and reporting
procedures.

Accounting. The CERSS'PCU would maintain the Program's records and accounts using the cash
basis of accounting and following Generally Accepted Accounting Practices and those recommended
by the Bank. Bank loan funds and counterpart funds will be accounted for separately. It is anticipated
that each participating agency and entity would manage its own accounts using the same automated
systemand practices as the CERSS'PCU.

The proposedchart of accounts was reviewed and found satisfactory.

The participating agencies and entities would be required to adopt a similar chart of accounts and
follow the same accounting and reportingprocedures.

Safeguard over assets. The CERSS'PCU would maintain a detailed asset register. The amounts in
the register would be reconciled against a physical inventory performed twice a year. Each asset
would have a code assigned to it and this code will be maintained using an automated asset register
that would include the following information:

         Date of Purchase
    m    Physical Description
         Supplier
         Form of Payment and Reference Number (Le., check number)
    m    Physical Location
    m    Asset Custodian

                                                   105


The automated asset register had been previewed already during a supervision mission of the
HIV/AIDS project. The system was found to be capable of safeguarding all Program assets.

The CERSS'PCU would also ensure that adequateinsurance is obtained for all assets.

InternalAudit

The CERSS'PCU has its own internal audit function. There is an internal auditor who would review
both the operational and financial aspects of the Program with the objectives of ensuring compliance
with applicable norms and regulations.

External Audit

The CERSS'PCU intends to hire the same external audit firm used to audit the Provincial Health
Services Project and the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project.

Audit compliance. According to World Bank records for the Provincial Health Services Project,
2000 and 2001, audit reports have usually come on time and are acceptable. However, the audit
reports have both had qualified opinions due to issues regardingthe commingling of counterpart, loan
funds and IDB funds. This issue has been discussed at length with the PCU and they have agreed to
implement measures to ensurethat all funds are accounted for and maintained separately.

Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements would be audited in accordance with
Intemational Audit Standards, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(Torso) acceptable to the World Bank. Auditors should provide audit opinions on project financial
statements, Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (Sues), a report on internal controls and a
report on compliance with the terms of the loan agreement and applicable laws and regulations.

In order to relieve some of the administrative burden of hiring the auditors on an annual basis, the
CERSS'PCU was informed that it could issue a multi-year contract. However, the contract will need
to stipulate that as each participating agency and entity begin to assume its own accounting and
reporting responsibilities, the scope of the audit will need to include the review of the their accounts
and records.

The CERSS'PCU, and eventually the participating agencies and entities, would prepare, if needed, a
plan to address any issues and recommendations contained in the audit reports. The action plan and
follow-up activities would be communicated promptly to the World Bank.

The table below summarizes audit requirements:

 Audit Report                    DueDate
 Project financial statements    4 months after fiscal year end (April 30)
 SOE                             same as above
 Special Accounts              1 same as above
 Special purpose               1 same as above (internal control andcompliance)


ReportingandMonitoring

Financial statements and reports would be prepared in formats satisfying both the Government and the
World Bank's monitoring and fiduciary purposes.

                                                 106


The CERSS'PCU would be responsible for producingquarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
to be submitted to the Bank 45 days after the end of each quarter. The Fh4Rs would include a
narrative outlining the Program's major achievements for the quarter, the sources and uses of funds, a
detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a physical progress report, and a procurement
report. FMRs should be submitted to the World Bank no later than 45 days after the end of the
reporting period.

The FMR format was agreed to by negotiations, after the PCU submitted a draft format for review and
comment to the World Bank.

The annual financial statements would include the Program's sources and uses of funds, a detailed
analysis of expenditure by sub-component, the schedule of SOEs presented during the year and a
reconciliation of the Special Account. These reports would be made available to the auditors after the
end of the fiscal year.

Information Systems

The CERSS'PCU would use an automated financial management system - S U P (Spanish acronym).
The system allows for expenditures to be segregated by project componentlactivity, major
disbursement category and financing source, which is compatible with the Bank's recommended
practices for project accounting.    In addition, many financial reports required by the Bank for
monitoring purposes can be produceddirectly from this system.


Disbursement Arrangements

The proposed loan would be disbursed over an implementation period of about four years.
Disbursements would be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's
Disbursements Handbook (Le., traditional disbursement procedures).

Special Account. The CERSS' PCU would establish a Special Account in US$ at the Central Bank.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the loan agreement. Under no
circumstances may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures
corresponding to the counterpart funds. Transfers from the Special Account to other project bank
accounts would only be permitted to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of no more than
30 days.

Total advances to the Special Account at any given time would not exceed the authorized allocation
amount to be determined at loan negotiations.

For replenishment of the Special Account, the CERSS'PCU would submit monthly requests for
reimbursement of expenditures made.

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications would be supported by
SOEs for expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the World Bank's prior review.
Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to the Bank of full supporting
documentation.

Documents in support of SOEs must be maintainedby the CERSS' PCU or the participating agencies
and entities at least until one year after the World Bank has received the audit report for the last

                                                    I07


withdrawal from the loan account. Such documents must be available to review by external auditors
and World Bank staff.

The World Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (under such terms and conditions as the World Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower) for:


    a) works under contracts which are not subject to prior review costing less than US$3.0 million
        with the exception of the first two contracts;
    b) goods under contracts which are not subject to prior review costingless than US$250,000 with
        the exception of the first two contracts;
    c) consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100:000 equivalent;
    d) individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent;
    e) training; and
    f) operatingcosts.

Other procedures. Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the World Bank's approval,
payments may be made: (i)     directly to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works and
services; (ii)to a procurement agent; or (iii) a commercial bank for expenditures against a World
                                                to
Bank Special Commitment covering a commercial bank's letter of credit.


FinancialManagementAction Plan




       Flow of funds
       Open the Special Account in US Dollars inthe bank selected, and the        By
       project account for counterpart funds.                                     effectiveness
       Request the initialdeposit of counterpart funds inthe Project Account.     By
                                                                                  effectiveness
       PCUStaffing
       As part of the obligations of the participating agencies and entities,     BY
       once they sign/define participationagreementdarrangements, project         effectiveness
       executing units' role and functions would be determined as part of the
       agreements.
       None. However, PCUwill needto reviewjob descriptions and CVs for
       participatingagencies and entities' staff before funds are transferred to
       their responsibility.
       Accounting and internal control
       Submit to the Bank a sample format of the FMR to be used for               Submitted at
       reporting purposes.                                                        negotiations
       External audit
       Prepare the audit TORSand short list of firms and submit to the World      Prior to
       Bank for review and clearance.                                             effectiveness
       Once the World Bank clears the TOR and short list of auditor firms,
       proceed with bidding process and the appointment of the auditors.        I BY
                                                                                  effectiveness

                                                 108


FinancialCovenants

Section 4.01 "Standard" wording: audit reports to be furnished to IBRD no later than four months after
the end of each fiscal year.

Section 4.02 "Standard" wording: the due date for the first FMRs is 45 days after the end of the
quarter in which effectiveness takes place.

SupervisionPlan

After effectiveness, a FMSpecialist must review the annual audit reports and should perform at least
one supervision mission per year or more often as needed.

Conditions

The following Financial Management actions are also conditions for project effectiveness: (i)    open
Special Account at the Central Bank, and (ii)the first deposit to the Program Account of counterpart
funds inthe amount of US$1.5 million has been made.

                                                     I09




                                                  Annex 7
                                      Project Processing Schedule

                                           Dominican Republic
                                    Health Reform Support Program

              Project Schedule                            Planned                   Actual

 Time taken to prepare the project (months)                 12                          12
 FirstBank mission (identification)                      June 2002                 June, 2002
 Appraisal mission departure                           May 5,2003                May 5,2003
 Negotiations                                          May 13,2003               May 13,2003
 Planned Date o f Effectiveness                       September 2003           September 2003

 Prepared by: the Government of the Dominican Republic




 Alma Bobadilla                  Directora Ejecutiva
 Alberto Fiallo Billini          Coordinador UMDI                            SESPAS
 Gisela Quiterio B.              Coordinadora TCcnica                        CERSS
 Amarilis Shnchez                Coordinadora Financiera                     CERSS
 Yima Gonzilez                   Asistente TCcnica                           CERSS
 Sabrina Hi1Hued                 Asesora Legal                               CERSS
 Miguel Geraldino                Coordinador Infraestructuray Equipamiento   CERSS
 Vicente Ruiz                    Coordinador Sistema de Informaci6n          CERSS
                                 Gerencial
 Roberto Cerda                   Coordinador Garantia de Calidad             CERSS
 Kenia Mejia                     Consultora                                  CERSS
 Zoila Guerra                    Asistente administrativa                    CERSS
 KerimaMarra                     Consultora Legal                            Banco Central

 Roberto Blondet                 Director TCcnico                            SISALRIL
 Julio Estrella                  Asesor, STP                                 STP
IAngelina Guillen               IEspecialista Financiera, STP               ISTP                     I
 Jose Colon                      Subsecretario, SESPAS                       SESPAS
 Eusebio Garrido                 Subsecretario, SESPAS                       SESPAS
 Chanel Rosa                     Directora Afiliacion                        SENASA
 Sarah Estrella                  Consultora Juridica                         SENASA
 Jeffrey Lizard0                 Director. Dept. Estudios Economicos         Secretaria de Finanzas
 Wilfred0 Ruiz                   Gerente Financier0                          CERSS
 Eric Raful                      Consultor Legal                             CERSS
 Fernando Morales                Asistente Ticnico del Coordinador Eiecutivo CERSS

                                                  110




Peer Reviewers: Khundavi Kadiresan, LCOQE; Christian Baeza, LCSHH; Willy De Geyndt, Former
World Bank Principal Health Specialist and now Assistant Professor George Washington University

QER The panel met onFebruary 12,2003anddiscussedthe programproposal with the task team,
      .
the country team as well as other staff. The panel also provided a report with its main findings and
recommendationssoon after completion of the review. Panel members included:

Armin Fidler :                           Chairperson (Strategy, Design and Approach)
Cristian BaezdPablo Gottret:             Sector issues and Health Insurance System
Diana Weil     :                         MDGs
RobertCrown :                            APL Triggers andPhasing
BobSaum :                                Fiduciary Arrangements
Tawhid Nawaz /Kundhavi Kadiresan:        Quality

                                          Annex 8

                               Documentsinthe ProjectFile

                                    DominicanRepublic
                             HealthReform SupportProgram

A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Project Implementationand Procurement Plan.

Draft Operational Manual.

B. BankStaffAssessments
Back -to-Office-Report, Preparation Mission, June 13-20,2002
Back-to-Office Report, Preparation Mission, November 2-9,2002
Back to Office Report, Preparation Mission, March 10-15,2003


C. Other

1. Ambiente y RecursosNaturales- PCU2001
2. AnBlisis de Situaci6n de Salud de laRepublica Dominicana, Secretaria de Estado de Salud
    Publica y Asistencia Social, 2000 (Documento preliminar)
3. BoletinEstadistico Aiio 1, No.1-SESPAS 2001
4. CAceres, Francisco. MortalidadMaternaen Rep6blicaDominicana, el cas0 del Distrito
    Nacional, 1998.
5. Cerda, Robero. Analisis de 10s Principales factores de laMortalidadMaternaen Repliblica
    Dominicana, 1999.
6. Cddigo de Protecci6n Niiios, niiias y adolescentes, Ley 14-94
7. Comunicacionespecial de la Direcci6n Gral. de Epidemiologia de la SESPAS, febrero 23 de
    1998
8. Consideraciones sobre manejo de residuos sanitarios en Amkrica Latina- OPS/OMS 1992
9. Desarrollo Humanoen la RepublicaDominicana2000. PNUD
10. DescriptivoTe'cnico Incineridor Saunier Duval Setri Espaiiola, SA
11. EnDefensa de la vida de lanifiezy de la mujer 1997-2000. UNICEF-ONAPLAN
12. Encuesta DemogBfica y de Salud 1996 y 2002 (ENDESA 1996 y 2002).
    CESDEM/PROFAMILIA/AID/MACRO-INTERNACIONAL.
13. Encuesta Nacional de ingresos y gastos de la familia. Banco Central de la Rep. Dom. 1998.
14. Estado Mundial de la Infancia 2000. Fondo de las Naciones Unidas para la Infancia
    (UNICEF).
15. Estudio piloto Encuesta DemogrBficay Salud 1999, CESDEM / PROFAMILIA. (Documento
    preliminar).
16. Indicadores BBsicos de Salud, RepublicaDominicana,1999. SESPAS - OPS
17. Indicadores sociales y econ6micos en Ame'rica Latina y el Caribe. Instituto Interamericano
    parael Desarrollo Social (INDEYBID).2000
18. Informe Ambiental y Social-BID-D-0078 1997
19. Informe Programa Nacional de salud Integral de 10s y las adolescentes, Secretaria de Estado
   de Salud Publicay Asistencia Social, 2000
20. La Situation de Salud de la Republica Dominicana, 1996. Secretaria de Estado de Salud
    Publica y Asistencia Social (SESPAS).

21. Ley 24-97, No Violencia contra la Mujer.
22. Ley 8-95 de Promocidn de la Lactancia Materna.
23. Ley General de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
24. Ley General de Salud (42-0 1)
25. Ley que crea el Sistema Dominican0 de Seguridad Social (87-01)
26. Lineade base de la mortalidad materna en la Republica Dominicana. Secretaria de Estado de
    Salud Publica y Asistencia Social. 2000
27. Managing Medical Wastes in DevelopingCountries -OMS 1994
28. Manejo de 10s Residuos Sdlidos Hospitalarios en la Repiiblica Dominicana-UASD 1992
29. Marco Regulador Juridic0 SESPAS.
30. Normas Ambientales Sobre la Calidad de Aguas y Control de Descarga, SEMARN, 2002
31. Normas Ambientales Sobre la Calidad del Aire y Control de Emisiones Atmosfdricas,
    SEMARN, 2002
32. Normas Ambientales Sobre Residuos Sdlidos y Desechos Radioactivos, SEMARN, 2002
33. Normas de Atencidn a la Mujer durante el Embarazo, Parto, Puerperio y ReciCnNacido,
    SESPAS, 1999.
34. Normas de Atencidn a las Principales Urgencias Obstetricias, SESPAS, 1999.
35. Normas Nacionales para la Vigilancia Epidemiol6gica de la Mortalidad Materna. SESPAS,
    1998.
36. Normas Tdcnico-Administrativas del Programa Nacional de Atencidn Integral a la salud de 10s
    y las adolescentes. SESPAS, 1999
37. Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto. Ingresos Fiscales del Gobierno Central, Rep. Dom. 1994-
    1998.
38. Plan de MovilizacidnNacional Para la Reduccidn de la Mortalidad Materna e Infantil,
    Republica Dominicana, 1997-2000
39. Programa de Educaci6n Sexual Integral y Familiar, Secretaria de Estado de Educacidny
    Cultura. Orden Departamental y Documentos de trabajo. 1996
40. Proyecciones Nacionales de Poblacidnpor Sex0 y Grupo de edad, 1990 - 2025. Oficina
    Nacional de Planificaci6n, ONAPLAN, REP. DOM, 1999.
41. RepublicaDominicana: Perfiles bisicos de salud de 10s paises, Restimenes 1999.
    Organizacidn Panamericana de la Salud. OPS/OMS.
42. Sistema de Vigilancia Epidemiol6gicade la Mortalidad Materna, Direccidn General de
    Epidemiologia. SESPAS. Informes 1998 y 1999.
43. Sistema dominicano de seguridad social (Ley 87-01)
44. Situacidn Enfermedades del PAI, Enero-Junio 1999. SESPAS
45. Sobre las tendencias de la mortalidad infantil en la Republica Dominicana. Secretaria de
    Estado de Salud Ptiblica y Asistencia Social. 2000
46. WHO Information, Fact Sheets- Backgrounder Nol- WHO 2000
47. USAID/SESPAS/Population Council. Strategic Assessment of Reproductive Health inthe
    Dominican Republic. 2002.
48. PAHO/WHO. RICC Task Force on MaternalMortality. Latin America and the Caribbean
    Regional Strategy for the Reduction of MaternalMortality -2002-2010. Sept. 2002.
49. Berg, C., Dane1I., Mora, G. Guidelines for Maternal Mortality Epidemiological Surveillance.
   PAHO/CDC/UNFPA, 1998.
50. World Bank. Dominican Republic Poverty Report. 2001.
51. World Bank. Dominican Republic Public Expenditures Report 2003.

 m
 0
 0
 Q
 r
Q
 0
 e
24
6
4




h
cv)
6E


TI
0
E




-m
ga
a



.-00
v



.c

n
ro
.-0
v)
E

f
CI


0"


        0
        am     0
               m
         P     P
               P
        C
        a,     a,
               C

        Ll
        a,     n
               a,
        2
        111    c
               2
        c
        .-0    .-
               c
        c
        %      c
               3
        c
        0      9-.

0
.d

                                                                     I15



                            Dominican Republic at a glance                                                                                    9116102


                                                                             Latin     Lower-                                                        I
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Dominican    America      middle-
                                                             Republic    &Carib.       income        Development diamond`
 2001
 Population, mid-year (millions)                                   8.5         524       2,164                      Life expectancy-
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                              2,230      3,560        1,240
 GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                  19.0       1,862       2,677                             T
 Average annual growth, 1995-01
 Population ("A)                                                   1.7           1.5       1.o
 Labor force (%)                                                   2.6          2.2        1.2       GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                     per                                    pnmaiy
 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                               capita                              enrollment
 Poverty ("A ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)
 Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                           66            76         46
 Life expectancyat birth (years)                                   67            70         69
 Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                           39            29         33
Child malnutrition (?Aof children under5)                            6             9        11              Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source ("A ofpopulation)               79            85         80                                                       I
 Illiteracy (`A of population age I.%)                              16           11         15
 Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)              133          130        107                  DominicanRepublic
     Male                                                          136          131        107            __Lower-middle-incomegroup
     Female                                                        130          128        107

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                       1981       1991       2000        2001      1  Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                       7.3       7.6         19.6       21.2
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                          23.6       21.7         24.0       23.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP                      20.8       28.2        27.8        23.9     I                     Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                              19.4      14.5         14.4       15.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                                                         I
                                                        18.0      20.7         18.8       19.5                             T


Current account balance/GDP                             -5.6      -1.1         -5.2        -4.0
Interest payments/GDP                                    2.0       1.1           1.1       0.9       Domestic                            Investment
Total debUGDP                                          31.6       59.2        23.5        24.0       savings

Total debt service/exports                             26.0       10.3          6.6        8.2
Present value of debUGDP                                                      22.2
Present value of debuexports                                                   55.0
                                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                         1981-91  1991-01         2000       2001     2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                          2.8         6.3       7.3          2.7                        -Dominican         Republic
GDP per capita                               0.7         4.5       5.5           1.1                       -Lower-middle-incomeorom
Exports of goods and services               10.2         6.7       7.3         -7.9


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                       1981       1991       2000        2001       1 Growth of investment  and GDP (%)              i
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                             18.6      13.9                                30

Industry                                               27.6       30.6                               20
   Manufacturing                                       15.6       18.5                                10
Services                                               53.8       55.5                                0
Privateconsumption                                     71.0       81.1         77.1       75,8           i"-  96      97     98    99      00    01

General government consumption                           9.5       4.3           8.4        9.0
Imports of goods and services                                                                                     -GO1           - O ' G D P



                                                  1981-91     1991-01
(average annualgrowth)                                                       2ooo        2o01      1 Growth of exports   and imports (%)             I
                                                                                                                                                     I
Agriculture                                             -0.6       3.9           5.0        5.1      20 -
Industry                                                 3.8       7.3           7.1        0.0          j

   Manufacturing                                         2.9       4.8           7.5       -1.3      1 0 4  7 A       -
Services                                                 3.2       6.2           7.9        3.9
                                                                                                                                                     I
Private consumption                                      3.8       5.6           8.2        3.1
General government consumption                          -54       158           -1 4      147     !-lo1
Gross domestic investment                                4 7       6 5           11                           "---Exports        +Imports
Imports of goods and services                          10 7        6 4           6 9       -4 9
                                                                                            5 2    1



Note: 2001 data are preliminaryestimates
" The diamonds show four key indicators in the countn, (inboid) compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamondwill
    be incomoiete.

                                                    116




                                                                                               Dominican Reuublic

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1981   1991     2000    2001
Domestic prices
("7 change)
Consumer prices                           16.8   59.4      7.7     8.9
Implicit GDP deflator                      5.3   58.2      7.9     8.9

Government finance
(% of GDP. includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                  13.3     16.0    16.7              96    97        98    99     00
Current budget balance                            6.5      2.1     3.8
Overall surpluddeflcit                            0.7     -2.1    -1.7              -GDP        deflator b C P I


                                                                               ,
TRADE
                                         1981   1991     2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                              Exportand import levels(USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             1,103   2,674   2,486   /8.000
  Raw sugar                                       115      71      65
  Raw cocoa                                        31       22     38
  Manufactures                                   578     1,708   1,691
Total imports (cif)                             2,188   6,416   5,937
  Food                                             52     403     356
  Fuel and energy                                507     1,507   1,240
  Capital goods                                  367     1,197   1,285
Export price index (1995=100)                                                     95    96     97     98  99    00     01

Import price index (1995=100)                                                             Exporls        mImparts
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1981   1991     2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                             1 Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            1,512 2,154    5,902   5,485
Importsof goods and services             1,818 2,706    7,789   7,232
Resource balance                         -306   -551    -1,888  -1,747

Net income                               -293   -360    -1,041  -1,119
Net current transfers                      193   829     1,902  2,028
Current account balance                  -406     -82   -1,027   -839

Financing items (net)                     296    439       957   1,357
Changes in net reserves                    110  -358        70   -519
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millions)            426       818   1,341
Conversion rate (DEC,local/lJS$)           1.o   12.7     16.4    17.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1981   1991     2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                               Composition of 2001debt(USSmill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     2,293 4,491    4,592    5,083
  IERD                                      93   254       292     317    1                      317
  IDA                                      22      20       14      13    I                             13  ..
                                                                                      1295    ~
Total debt service                        396    264       521     621
  IBRD                                      8      54       43      46
  IDA                                       0       1        1       1
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                           13     18       44
  Official creditors                       195    22       -84     -55
  Private creditors                        -32    -15      115     530
  Foreign direct investment                80    145       953
  Portfolio equity                          0      0        74
World Bank program
  Commitments                                                8      25                                       E Bilateral
                                                                                                              -
  Disbursements                            34     42        39      49      i:          -
                                                                                                              -
                                                                          ~            D Othermultilateral   F- Private
  Principal repayments                      2     31        22      24    1 C .IMF                           G Shod-term
  Net flows                                32      11       17      25
  Interest payments                         6     23        22      23
  Nettransfers                             25     -12       -5       2

Development Economics                                                                                               9116102

