                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00001420



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-71850)



                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION


                                         TO THE

                                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                     FOR THE HEALTH REFORM SUPPORT (APL1)

                                  FIRST PHASE OF THE

                        HEALTH REFORM SUPPORT PROGRAM



                                       June 28, 2010




Caribbean Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective: 04/12/2010)

               Currency Unit = Dominican Pesos
                        1.00 = US$ 0.02
                    US$1.00 = DOP 36.17

                        FISCAL YEAR

                   January 1 ­ December 31


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
ARS     Health Risks Insurer
        (Aseguradora de Riesgos de Salud)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CERSS   Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform
        (Comisión Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud)
CMDB    Minimum Set of Basic Data
        (Conjunto Mínimo de Datos Básicos)
DDEI    Directorate of Strategic Development
        (Dirección de Desarrollo Estratégico
DGDF    General Directorate of Drugs and Pharmacies
        (Dirección General de Drogas y Farmacias)
DGHA    General Directorate of Authorization and Accreditation
        (Dirección General de Habilitación y Acreditación)
DIDA    Directorate of Social Security Beneficiaries' Information and Advocacy
        (Dirección de Información y Defensa de los Afiliados a la Seguridad
        Social)
DIES    General Directorate of Health Informatics and Statistics
        Dirección General de Informática y Estadísticas en Salud
DR      Dominican Republic
EU      European Union
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
GoDR    Government of the Dominican Republic
IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ISO     International Organization for Standardization
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MEPD    Ministry of Economics, Planning, and Development
        (Ministerio de Economía, Planificación y Desarrollo)
MoH     Ministry of Health
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PARSS   Project in Support of the Health Sector Reform
        Proyecto de Apoyo a la Reforma del Sector Salud
PASS DPL      Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors Development Policy
              Loan (PASS DPL)
PBS           Basic Health Plan (Plan Básico de Salud)
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
              (Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto)
PDO           Project Development Objective
POA           Program of Activities
PROMESE/CAL   Essential Drugs Program/Logistics Support Center
              (Programa de Medicamentos Esenciales/Central de Apoyo Logístico)
PRP           Prioritized Regions and Provinces
              (Provincias y Regiones Priorizadas)
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
QER           Quality Enhancement Review
RS            Subsidized Regime
              (Régimen Subsidiado)
SENASA        National Health Insurance
              (Seguro Nacional de Salud)
SESPAS        Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance
              (Secretaría de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social)
SFS           Family Health Insurance (Seguro Familiar de Salud)
SISALRIL      Health and Labor Risks Superintendence
              (Superintendencia de Salud y Riesgos Laborales)
SIUBEN        Unique System of Beneficiaries
              Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios
SRS           Regional Health Services
              (Servicios Regionales de Salud)
STP           Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia
              (Technical Secretariat of the Presidency)
UAP           Primary Health Care Unit
              (Unidad de Atención Primaria)
UEP           Project Implementation Unit
              (Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto)
UMDI          Modernization and Institutional Development Unit
USAID         United States Agency for International Development




                      Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
                     Sector Manager: Keith Hansen
                Project Team Leader: Fernando Montenegro Torres
                   ICR Team Leader: Fernando Montenegro Torres
 
                                        Dominican Republic
                            Health Sector Reform Support Project (APL1)



                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 31
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 32
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 35
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 36
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 37
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 39
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 45
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 46
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 48
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 48
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 49
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 57
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
  Annex 10. Key performance indicators as included in the original PAD.................... 58
  Annex 11. Summary of the Final Report on the Investment Activities of PARSS 1 ... 61
  Map ............................................................................................................................... 64
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                       DO: Health Reform
Country:                Dominican Republic      Project Name:
                                                                       Support (APL)
Project ID:             P076802                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-71850
ICR Date:               06/30/2010              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       DOMINICAN
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                       REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 30.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 29.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 29.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 CERSS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/23/2002     Effectiveness:          01/06/2005       01/06/2005
Appraisal:            05/06/2003     Restructuring(s):                        12/13/2006
Approval:             06/26/2003     Mid-term Review:        10/30/2007       10/16/2007
                                     Closing:                12/31/2007       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                    Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:                Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower           Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:               Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           No                                             Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                              50                    50
Non-compulsory health finance                                       50                    50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                           100                   100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                         David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Alan G. Carroll                    Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:            Keith E. Hansen                    Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:       Fernando Montenegro Torres         Patricio V. Marquez
ICR Team Leader:           Fernando Montenegro Torres
ICR Primary Author:        Maria R. Puech Fernandez


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The design of the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was based on three phases, each with
an estimated duration of 4 years. The overarching objective of the APL was contributing
to the achievement#by the year 2015#of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
agreed to by the Government of the Dominican Republic (GoDR) at the Millennium
Summit held in September 2000. Specifically, the APL would (i) address three MDG
goals: reduce child mortality, improve maternal health, and contribute to the eradication
of extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from financial loss due to ill health and
disability; (ii) support the implementation of a new legal framework for the health sector,
particularly aimed at the institutional strengthening of SESPAS in its new stewardship
role, the development of insurance mechanisms, and the creation of regional health


                                              ii
networks; and (iii) support the preparation, validation, and dissemination of norms and
regulations supplementary to the General Health Law (42-01) and the Social Security
Law (87-01).

  The original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) of the first phase of the APL, also
known as PARSS1 for its Spanish Acronym (Proyecto de Apoyo a la Reforma del Sector
Salud Fase 1), were to: (i) contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty by protecting
the poorest from financial loss due to ill health and disability through enrollment of the
target population (i.e., people living below the relative poverty line in the regions III, IV,
VI, VII, and VIII) in the government health insurance plan and making available and
promoting the use of basic health services of high-quality standards; (ii) support the
implementation of the health sector reform legislation that would provide the legal,
financial, organizational, and managerial enabling environment to achieve the MDGs
related to health.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
A first-order restructuring was signed on February 2007. The new PDOs introduced
during this restructuring were to support the Borrower in: (i) improving access of the
poor living in the Prioritized Regions and Provinces (Provincias y Regiones Priorizadas
or PRPs) to high-quality health services included in the Basic Family Health Insurance
Plan (Plan Básico de Salud del Seguro Familiar); (ii) reorganizing and strengthening the
health systems in the Prioritized Regions so they can fulfill the roles and functions as
established in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law; (iii) strengthening
the financial planning of the Subsidized Regime (Régimen Subsidiado or RS), ensuring
the effective enrollment of the poor, and improving their knowledge of their rights under
the Family Health Insurance (Seguro Familiar de Salud or SFS); and (iv) strengthening
the capacity of national health sector organizations to fulfill their roles and functions as
established in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law.

  At the request of a new administration that took office in August 2004 (5 months prior
to Project effectiveness), the project was restructured. Extensive discussions and some
analytical work were carried out to identify key bottlenecks and priorities. The process
was designed to build consensus among key stakeholders and to ensure consistency of
Project activities with the new government priorities#accelerating health sector reform
and expanding health insurance coverage to the poor. New PDOs and indicators were
agreed on, which included some trigger indicators for the next phase of the APL. The
indicators used in this ICR to assess the achievements of the Project are those introduced
in the Project#s restructuring of December 2006. For a table of the original APL PDOs
and the trigger indicators, see Annex 10 of the ICR.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from           Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval             Target        Completion or
                                             documents)            Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percentage of public primary health care facilities in PRPs that are accredited


                                               iii
                  with SESPAS
Value
quantitative or   0                                              50%             33%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2007                                     12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments
                  Not completed due to legal and regulatory changes to human resources laws and
(incl. %
                  regulations not taken by government.
achievement)
                  Percentage of public health units in PRPs that have tracer drugs that are part of
Indicator 2 :     the Basic Health Plan (Plan Básico de Salud) available for the population
                  enrolled in the RS
Value
quantitative or 60%                                           80%             23
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                       12/31/2008     12/31/2009
                A new inter-agency agreement allowed for a more efficient solution. Decision
Comments
                makers agreed to use not only health centers but PROMESE/CAL discount
(incl. %
                pharmacies as points of services for those health centers which is measured by
achievement)
                this indicator.
                Percentage of pregnant women who receive prenatal care services in PRPs in
Indicator 3 :
                accordance with national guidelines
Value
quantitative or 8%                                            > 50%           14%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2008                                       12/31/2008     12/31/2009
                Government develop evidence-based guidelines with broad stakeholders#
Comments
                consultations taking longer than expected. New multi-sectorial approach
(incl. %
                supported by a new DPL includes training on new guidelines will be one of the
achievement)
                triggers for its second phase.
                Percentage of infants who receive routine check-ups in PRPs in accordance with
Indicator 4 :
                national guidelines
Value
quantitative or                                               > 50%           9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                  12/31/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        S
achievement)
                Percentage of personnel in PRPs who are familiar with the national guidelines for
Indicator 5 :
                maternal and child care
Value
quantitative or 26%                                           80%             32%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2008                                       12/31/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        S
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Percentage of managers and administrators of second-level hospitals in PRPs that



                                                  iv
                  were hired through a competitive recruitment process over the last 12 months
                                                                No specific    No activity was
Value                                                           target was     carried out under
quantitative or   0                                             defined at the the Project
Qualitative)                                                    time of        regarding this
                                                                restructuring indicator.
Date achieved     01/31/2007                                    12/31/2008     12/31/2009
Comments          Achievement of this target depended on changes to laws and civil service
(incl. %          policies. New law has not been approved by Congress and is not clear final
achievement)      outcome.
                  Percentage of secondary care facilities in PRPs that disseminate quarterly
Indicator 7 :
                  performance reports
                                                                No specific
Value                                                           target was
quantitative or   0                                             established at
Qualitative)                                                    the time of
                                                                restructuring
Date achieved     01/31/2007                                    12/31/2008
Comments
                Percentage of secondary care facilities in PRPs that disseminate quarterly
(incl. %
                performance reports
achievement)
                The design of an integrated financial and performance management system
Indicator 8 :
                completed, populated, and implemented
                                                              June 2007:
                                                              Design of an
                                                              integrated
                                                              financial and
                                                              performance
                                                              management
                                                              system
                                                              completed;     Integrated financial
                                                              December       and performance
                                                              2007:          management
                                                              Integrated     system designed.
Value
                                                              financial and
quantitative or 0
                                                              performance Training carried out
Qualitative)
                                                              management in Regions VIII and
                                                              system piloted VI. Ongoing
                                                              in the         training in Region
                                                              Regional       V.
                                                              Health
                                                              Services
                                                              (Servicios
                                                              Regionales de
                                                              Salud or SRS);
                                                              June 2008:
                                                              Syst
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                      12/31/2008     12/31/2009
Comments        In 2010 the MoH and SENASA agreed to use new governmental system SIGEF



                                                 v
(incl. %        as a part of a set of tools for management of the new results-based financing
achievement)    mechanisms for the first level of care that APL2 will contribute to finance.
                Number of annual performance agreements between SESPAS and the SRS that
Indicator 9 :
                include incentives to improve performance
                                                                                By Project
                                                                                completion,
Value                                                           SRS of          Regions VI and
quantitative or 0                                               Regional III, VIII had signed a
Qualitative)                                                    IV, V, and VI results-based
                                                                                agreement with
                                                                                SESPAS.
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                        12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments        Results based agreements were signed in the last quarter of 2009 between the
(incl. %        MoH and SRS of Regions VI and VIII. By March 2010 all health regions signed
achievement) performance agreements
                Percentage of the budget for health care services that was transferred to the
Indicator 10 :
                Prioritized Regions through SENASA
Value
quantitative or 4.4%                                            8%              17.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                        12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments        The successful achievement of this objective exceeds the target. At the time of
(incl. %        the Project closing, about one-third of the total target population (1.3 million out
achievement) of 3.2 million) were enrolled.
                SESPAS, SENASA, the SRS, and the STP have developed, approved, and
Indicator 11 :
                implemented a multi-annual financing plan for the RS in the PRPs (2008#2010)
                                                                June 2007:
                                                                Plan designed;
                                                                September
                                                                2007: Plan
Value                                                           approved;
                                                                                Not met as
quantitative or 0                                               January 2008:
                                                                                described
Qualitative)                                                    the Plan in to
                                                                be reflected in
                                                                the 2008
                                                                national
                                                                budget
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                        12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of poor living in PRPs that are enrolled in the RS who know the
Indicator 12 :
                benefits of the Family Health Insurance Plan (Seguro Familiar de Salud or SFS)
Value
quantitative or 45%                                             70%             57%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                        12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments        Success in the rapid expansion of enrolled population outpaced plans strategy for
(incl. %        communication that considered a smaller population.


                                                 vi
achievement)
                Percentage of children born alive in public hospitals over the preceding 12
Indicator 13 : months for which the hospitals have an electronic copy of the birth certificate on
                file.
Value
quantitative or 0                                              >80%            14.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                       12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments        Logistical and technical difficulties delayed implementation. PCU estimates that
(incl. %        34 hospitals that account for more than 80 percent of deliveries can fully start
achievement) providing birth certificates over the next 18th months.
                In SESPAS: monitoring and evaluation system designed, populated, and results
Indicator 14 :
                disseminated.
                                                               May 2007:
                                                               System
                                                               designed;
                                                               October 2007:
Value                                                          System
                                                                               Indicator not
quantitative or 0                                              populated;
                                                                               achieved.
Qualitative)                                                   January 2008:
                                                               First
                                                               performance
                                                               report
                                                               disseminated
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                       12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments        Government decided to avoid fragmentation and created the new national
(incl. %        monitoring and evaluation unit with the objective of integrating dispersed efforts
achievement) avoid duplicity and overlapping and enhance efficiency.
                SENASA: monitoring and evaluation system designed, populated, and results
Indicator 15 :
                disseminated.
                                                               May 2007:
                                                               System
                                                               designed;
                                                               October 2007:
Value                                                          System
                                                                               Indicator not
quantitative or 0                                              populated;
                                                                               achieved.
Qualitative)                                                   January 2008:
                                                               First
                                                               performance
                                                               report
                                                               disseminated
Date achieved 01/31/2007                                       12/31/2008      12/31/2009
Comments        Government decided to avoid fragmentation and created the new national
(incl. %        monitoring and evaluation unit with the objective of integrating dispersed efforts
achievement) avoid duplicity and overlapping and enhance efficiency.
                Percentage of drugs and medical supplies (by value in $) procured by
Indicator 16 :
                PROMESE/CAL through international public bidding procedures.
Value                                                                          Norms to carry out
                0                                              20%
quantitative or                                                                international


                                               vii
Qualitative)                                                                  bidding process
                                                                              prepared and
                                                                              personnel trained.
Date achieved     01/31/2007                                    12/31/2008    12/31/2009
Comments          Government prioritized acquisition of the most expensive medicines through
(incl. %          joint Central America and DR price negotiations and for HIV/AIDS drugs an
achievement)      agreement with the PAHO. PROMESE will conduct distribution
                  CERSS: Monitoring and Evaluation system designed, populated, and results
Indicator 17 :
                  disseminated.
                                                                May 2007:
                                                                System
                                                                designed;
                                                                October 2007: The system was
Value                                                           System        designed by Project
quantitative or   0                                             populated;    completion (April
Qualitative)                                                    January 2008: 2009). Not fully
                                                                First         implemented.
                                                                performance
                                                                report
                                                                disseminated
Date achieved     01/31/2007                                    12/31/2008    12/31/2009
                  Same comment as indicators 14 and 15. The software and system for health
Comments
                  sector reform monitoring was transferred to the MoH to ensure that will be
(incl. %
                  integrated within the new M&E policies and systems. This was a trigger
achievement)
                  indicator.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                       Target Years
                  An explicit differentiation between final and intermediate outcomes was not
                  made during restructuring given the nature of what they intended to measure.
Indicator 1 :
                  PDOs indicators 5, 8, 13, and 14 were selected as intermediate outcome
                  indicators in ISR reporting.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/17/2003       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/03/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    11/24/2004       Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  4    03/03/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.55
  5    06/21/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.55
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  6    06/23/2005                                                                      1.55
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  7    12/30/2005                                                                      2.08
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  8    10/27/2006                                                                      4.07
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  9    12/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             4.60
 10    06/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             6.03
 11    12/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             9.65
 12    06/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            14.16
 13    10/03/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   16.91
 14    06/23/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            22.72
 15    12/18/2009      Unsatisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            27.44


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 12/13/2006               MS     MS           4.60




                                              ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


1.       At the time of appraisal, mother and child health outcome indicators in the Dominican
Republic were considerably lower than those in other countries with comparable income per
capita. Infant mortality rates were 31 per 1,000 live births, with persistent levels of neonatal
mortality. The maternal mortality rate was higher than that of other countries in the region of
comparable per capita income and studies suggested that 93 percent of these deaths were
preventable. In 1999 maternal mortality was estimated at 113 per 100,000 live births, while it was
33 and 35 in Chile and Costa Rica respectively.

2.       The provision of health care services was highly fragmented. The health system consisted
of multiple public and private providers, operating with loose guidelines, minimal regulations,
and overlapping functions. There was scarce coordination to guarantee universal access to quality
and efficient health services. At appraisal, the poor quality of health services was considered an
important factor linked to poor maternal and child health outcomes. Weaknesses identified in
public sector health services included lack of planning and gaps in infrastructure and equipment,
particularly for delivering primary health care services; and, at the first level of care, irregular
supply of pharmaceuticals and medical inputs. Another important area that required strengthening
was policy development and implementation, particularly regarding health sector planning and
the management and allocation of human resources in the health sector (particularly at the first
level of care).

3.       The public sector was the largest provider of health services for the majority of the
population. However, the financing of health care services was regressive and inequitable, and
resources were not allocated efficiently--few funds being provided for the first level of care.
Public sector health spending made up 2 percent of GDP, among the lowest in the region. The
two largest providers of health services--the MOH and the Dominican Institute of Social
Insurances (Instituto Dominicano de Seguros Sociales or IDSS)--accounted for less than a
quarter of total health care spending while out-of-pocket expenses represented more than half of
total national spending on health.

4.      After a decade of discussions, analyses, and consensus building, in 2001, two critical
laws were approved: the General Health Law (N. 42-01, passed on May 8, 2001) and the Social
Security Law (N.87-01, passed on May 18, 2001). These laws constituted a major health sector
reform effort and their provisions aimed to overhaul the financing, organization, management,
and delivery of services in the country. The laws envisioned a 10-year period of transition in
order to initiate and complete the full development and implementation of operational, regulatory,
financial, institutional, and organizational arrangements that are involved in such a complex
implementation.

5.      The General Health Law introduced a separation of functions between the stewardship
over the health system (a role assigned to the MoH) and the provision of health care services (a
role assigned to public and private health care providers). This law established a process of
decentralization of the management of health care services (SRS), which were to be organized as
public and autonomous networks of health care providers within the framework of a primary
health care approach. This Law also created the National Health Council (NHC), which was made
responsible for the formulation, follow-up, and evaluation of health policy.
6.      The Social Security Law introduced mandatory health insurance for all citizens, while
separating the functions of financing, risk pool management, and provision of health services.
Mandatory health insurance, known as SFS, would be implemented through a family insurance
system with a unified and explicit package of benefits--the Basic Health Plan (Plan Básico de
Salud or PBS). Three regimes were established: a contributory one for workers in the formal
sector and their families; a subsidized one for the poor and individuals from families living below
the poverty line who are not covered by the formal sector, and a partially subsidized regime for
autonomous workers and other individuals outside the formal sector who are not eligible for the
RS.

7.      The National Health Insurance (Seguro Nacional de Salud or SENASA) was established
as an autonomous public entity that would act as a mandatory risk-pooling agency (Aseguradora
de Riesgos de Salud or ARS) for the RS, to be financed fiscally via health insurance premiums.
The SRS were established as the mandatory providers of health care services for the RS.

8.       The financing of the contributory system would be based on a payroll tax system.
Individuals in the contributory system could opt either for private risk-pooling agencies (ARS) or
for SENASA (financed through the payroll tax system). The Social Insurance Treasury was
established and, among other duties, given the responsibility for collecting revenues and
managing the financial pools for all regimes. Another public agency, the Health and Labor Risks
Superintendence (Superintendencia de Salud y Riesgos Laborales or SISALRIL) was established
to audit, monitor, and evaluate public and private ARSs to ensure the soundness and sustainability
of their financial management.

9.      Through the Provincial Health Services Project (Report N.17199 DO), the World Bank
supported the GoDR in its efforts to develop and build consensus on the health sector reform's
legal framework, which ultimately resulted in the 2001 Laws as well as the development of
numerous regulations needed to actually implement these Health Sector Reform Laws. In the
years prior to the preparation of this Project, other donors and multilateral institutions--such as
the IDB, the EU, and USAID--also financed projects to introduce piecemeal changes to the
public sector health system.1

10.     In line with the GoDR sector priorities and the CAS,2 the GoDR and the Bank agreed on
an APL to support the health sector reform. The Program was viewed by the GoDR as a valuable
instrument to assist the country in achieving its long-term sector objectives, given the long-term
horizon of the sector reform program and the preparation of a 10-year Sector Development Plan.
Moreover, the global impetus to set ambitious national goals to reduce poverty and improve
health sector outcomes--given by international, multilateral, and national organizations through
the development and endorsement of the MDGs--contributed significantly to the engagement of
the GoDR. The government clearly saw the new laws and the new Bank Project as an opportunity
to accelerate the introduction of changes in the health sector, thereby improving its performance
and achieving various key MDGs. The country was one of the signatories of these internationally
agreed objectives and public authorities of various sectors had agreed to meet them.


1
  Technical assistance was provided by UN agencies (PAHO/WHO, UNDP, and UNICEF). This support had brought
about a geographical fragmentation in the implementation of health reforms.

2
    CAS ­ Doc. 19393 ­DO. Discussion June 9, 1999.



                                                     2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

11.      The APL aimed at: (a) contributing to achieve by the year 2015 the MDGs agreed to by
the GoDR at the Millennium Summit held in September 2000. Specifically, the APL was
supposed to address three MDG goals: reduce child mortality, improve maternal health, and
contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from financial loss due
to ill health and disability; (b) supporting the implementation of the new legal framework for the
health sector, particularly the institutional strengthening of SESPAS in its new stewardship role,
the development of insurance mechanisms, and the creation of regional health networks; and (c)
supporting the preparation, validation, and dissemination of norms and regulations supplementary
to the General Health Law (42-01) and the Social Security Law (87-01).

12.     The APL was to achieve the above mentioned development objectives in three phases
over a period of 12 years. There were trigger indicators to move from Phase I to Phase II, and
then to Phase III (see Annex 10 for a table of these indicators).

13.     Specifically, the Project would: (i) contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty by
protecting the poorest from financial loss due to ill health and disability through the enrollment of
the target population in the government health insurance plan and by making available and
promoting the use of basic health services of high-quality standards. The target population would
be people living below the relative poverty line in regions II, IV, VI, VII, and VIII; and (ii)
support the implementation of the health sector reform legislation that provides the legal,
financial, organizational, and managerial enabling environment to achieve the MDGs related to
health.

14.       The original Project design included the following key performance indicators:

Directly linked to the MDGs:

      Reduce Extreme Poverty and Hunger
      - Target: by 2015, protect the poorest from financial loss due to ill health;
      - Indicators: percentage of families with health insurance; prevalence of underweight
      children (under 5 years of age), low birth weight, and nutritional status;

      Improve Child Health
      - Target: by 2015, reduce under-five deaths by two-thirds;
      - Indicators: percentage of underweight newborns; percentage of children 12­23 months
         old fully immunized; infant mortality rate; under-five mortality rate; mortality and
         morbidity from upper respiratory infections, diarrhea and measles.

      Improve Maternal Health
      - Target: by 2015, reduce by three-quarters the maternal mortality rate;
      - Indicators: percentage of pregnant women with four prenatal visits; percentage of births
         attended by skilled health personnel; maternal mortality rate; contraceptive prevalence
         rate; total fertility rate; and percentage of cesarean sections.

Indirectly linked but supporting the MDGs:

      -   Anchoring the MoH's stewardship role: national health policies issued, consistent
          communication strategies and public information campaigns organized, performance
          monitoring and evaluation.

                                                 3
      -   Promoting the decentralization and autonomy process

      -   Improving secondary and tertiary facilities: physical structures refurbished,
          electromechanical and biomedical waste management equipment adequately maintained,
          productivity incentives developed, staff trained and duly performing, information systems
          operating.

      -   Consolidating national essential public health functions

15.       The original Project design included the following outcome/impact indicators:

PDO 1: Increase the proportion of the target population using health services provided under the
Basic Health Plan (PBS).
   Indicators:

          Percentage of pregnant women with at least four prenatal care visits;
          Percentage of births attended by skilled personnel;
          Percentage of women in reproductive age who use modern family planning methods;
          Percentage of children 12 to 23 months old who are fully immunized (DPT, polio, and
          measles); and
          Percentage of children under 5 with diarrhea who have been medically diagnosed and are
          being treated.

PDO 2: Improve the quality of services provided under the PBS to the target population.
Indicators:

          Percentage of women receiving prenatal care who are immunized against tetanus;
          Percentage of women diagnosed with pre-eclampsia and referred to tertiary facilities;
          Percentage of staff working at Health Service Providers' facilities present during working
          hours;
          Percentage of target population satisfied with the quality of the PBS services.

PDO 3: Remove financial barriers to access and protect the target population from the financial
consequences of ill health.
   Indicators:

          Percentage of the population eligible for government services under the Social Security
          Law that is enrolled in the National Insurance Plan;
          Percentage of private insurance expenditures as a percentage of total health expenditures.

PDO 4: Improve the efficiency of the health system.
  Indicators:

          Percentage of SENASA's financial resources allocated to primary care services;
          Nurse/midwife per doctor ratio for Health Service Providers (excluding auxiliary nurses);
          Hospital beds per 1,000 population for Health Service Providers;
          Percentage of administrative and managerial positions created in the reform process at the
          regional, provincial, and municipal level of SENASA that are filled by SENASA
          employees.

                                                  4
(See annex 10 for a table of outcome indicators with baseline values and targets, as included in
the PAD)

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
    reasons/justification

16.      In 2004­05 health sector authorities of the incoming administration developed a new
national strategic agenda for the health sector reform, emphasizing consensus building, improved
planning, and cooperation among public sector agencies ("Agenda Estratégica Nacional para la
Reforma del Sector Salud 2005"). In that same year, the UN selected the Dominican Republic as
one of the "pilot countries"--along with Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Senegal, Tajikistan, and
Yemen--to help identify the best ways to integrate MDG targets and timelines into their national
strategies to reduce poverty. The aim was for these national strategies to serve as models for
similar undertakings in developing countries throughout the world.

17.      In early 2005, during the very first meetings with the Bank's team after the Project had
become effective, the GoDR requested that a process be initiated to adjust the Project to ensure its
relevance, given the time elapsed between the early stages of preparation and effectiveness and
the evolution of all the institutions established by the Health Sector Reform Laws of 2001. In
addition, the government sought to use the Project as a tool to leverage the momentum deriving
from the political commitment to: (i) expand health insurance coverage among the poor in those
areas with the largest concentration of low-income families; and, (ii) accelerate the
decentralization of the SRS, while developing primary health care networks of public providers.
As a result, the Project initiated a process of extensive consultations, some analytical activities,
stakeholder analyses, and consensus building among all key actors across multiple organizations
and agencies from the health sector. This restructuring agreement involved first-order changes,
which the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank approved on December 13, 2006, and the
restructuring documents were duly signed in February 2007.

18.     The new PDOs after the first-order restructuring were to: (i) improve access of the poor
people entitled to the RS of the SFS living in prioritized regions and provinces to high-quality
health services included in the insurance's benefits package (Plan Básico de Salud); (ii)
reorganize and strengthen the health systems in prioritized regions so they can fulfill the roles and
functions as established in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law; (iii) strengthen
the financial planning of the RS, ensuring the effective enrollment of the poor and improving
their knowledge of their rights under the Seguro Familiar; and (iv) strengthen the capacity of
national health sector organizations so they can fulfill their roles and functions as established in
the General Health Law and the Social Security Law. The objectives of the APL were not
modified at the time of restructuring but the outcome indicators as well as the trigger indicators
were. The latter are shown in the results framework tables and in annex 10 (trigger indicators).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

19.     The APL and the original Project focused on activities that ultimately were expected to
contribute to gains in the health status of the poorest population groups in selected provinces of
the country, which the previous World Bank project had also targeted, most of them in provinces
that bordered Haiti. However, the PAD stated that the population covered under the Project,
Phase I of the APL, was to be 2.3 million (28 percent of the total population), of which 1.7
million were living under the poverty line, as defined at the time of preparation, which seems to


                                                 5
correspond to the total number of individuals expected to be covered by the health insurance for
the poor (RS).

20.      The restructured Project continued to target the poor population as a whole while the
activities in the Project components were prioritized by region (Regions II, IV, and VI). Activities
in Component IV and some of the activities in Component III were to benefit the entire
population of the country.

21.    The second amendment of the Loan expanded the geographical scope of activities of
Component I, allowing for the financing of critical improvements in the health delivery system
nationwide, introducing the possibility of expanding the population covered under the Project.3

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

22.      The original design of APL1 included four components that were meant to be included in
all of the three phases of the programmatic lending that supported the health sector reform. The
PAD outlined the main activities to be carried out under each component during Phase I. The
main components were the following:

Component I: Supporting health services extension to achieve universal coverage (total cost:
US$25.97 million or 60.8 percent of total Project cost). This component would follow up on and
extend the achievements of the Provincial Health Services Project 4 and would: (i) complete
coverage of the poor population with a basic health plan, emphasizing maternal and child care;
(ii) add Region VI, with the provinces of San Juan de la Maguana and Elías Piña; and (iii) add the
provinces of La Vega and Monseñor Nouel to complete the coverage of Region VIII. All of these
regions had the largest proportion of poor people in the country.

Component II: Supporting implementation of the health sector reform legislation (total cost:
US$7.20 million or 16.8 percent of total Project cost). This component would: (i) assist in
building the institutions to implement the reformed health sector legislation, by supporting the
development of regulatory frameworks, organizational structures, financial instruments, training
programs, and management information systems; and (ii) assist in providing the legal and
financial enabling environment for achieving the objective of Component I.

Component III: Improving selected essential public health functions to promote and protect
the health of the population (total cost: US$2.66 million or 6.2 percent of total Project cost).
This component would finance two essential public health functions: (i) epidemiological health
surveillance and control of risk in public health, by strengthening the information system for
epidemiological surveillance, and the capacity and quality control of the National Public Health


3
  The Resolution N. 43-02 of the Borrower's National Social Security Council established that the enrollment of the
poor in the RS of the Family Health Insurance would be achieved gradually, in the first phase focusing on four of the
country's nine health regions, prioritized by poverty level. The first phase was completed faster than anticipated and in
2008 the poor were enrolling in the RS across the nation. Enrollment nationwide had become a priority for the health
authorities. Accordingly, the GoDR expanded geographically its efforts to strengthen the delivery of health services.

4
  The Provincial Health Project (Ln. 4272-DO) was still under implementation when the present Project was prepared
and approved by the Executive Board. It supported the provision of primary care services to the poorest population,
with emphasis on maternal and child care in three regions (III, IV and VII), one province of Region VIII (Sánchez
Ramírez), and in one health area of the national district (Santo Domingo Centro).


                                                            6
Laboratory, the cold storage facility (cold chain); establishing a national pharmacological
surveillance system; and relocating and strengthening the Forensic Pathology Department; and
(ii) the development of policies, plans, and management capacity for assuring SESPAS'
stewardship by supporting the design of a 10-year national strategic plan to gradually build up the
national health system and the social security system. Support was to be provided to carry out
policy and operational studies, including one that would focus on the training of physicians,
nurses, and other health personnel.

Component IV: Project management and impact appraisal of next phases (total cost:
US$6.58 million or 15.4 percent of total Project cost). This component would support Project
management, including the strengthening of the monitoring and impact evaluation system to
measure the results achieved during implementation.

1.6 Revised Components

23.      The first amendment, which was the result of extensive discussions and consultations
with health sector stakeholders, was finally signed in December 2006 and involved first-order
changes: the original APL1 objectives and outcome indicators were changed as well as the
Project's components. The restructuring replaced the original design with a new one, in which all
activities were organized around four components as follows:

Component I: Improve access of the poor in prioritized regions and provinces to high-
quality health services included in the benefits package (Plan Básico de Salud) of the Family
Health Insurance (Seguro Familiar de Salud). (Total cost: US$15.6 million or 38.5 percent of
total Project cost). This component would finance activities that would improve access to high-
quality health services in prioritized regions and provinces to meet the increasing demand of the
poor enrolled in the Régimen Subsidiado. In particular, activities to close gaps in the
infrastructure network and improve the condition of buildings and equipment, the geographical
distribution and management of human resources for health, the clinical management of patients,
the supply and use of pharmaceuticals, and the general management of hospitals.

Component II: Reorganize and strengthen health systems in prioritized regions so they can
fulfill the roles and functions as established in the general health and social security laws.
(Total cost: US$1.2 million or 3 percent of total Project cost). This component would finance: (i)
the reorganization of the SRS. This would include consultancies and training to consolidate the
model of administration, as well as the management and delivery of health services through the
development and implementation of operational plans; (ii) the development of a Health
Management Information System, including subsystems for financial management and service
delivery; and (iii) the elaboration and negotiation of performance agreements and contracts
between the regional health services and SESPAS, and between the former and SENASA, and the
design and implementation of mechanisms to enforce them.

Component III: Develop a multi-annual financing plan for the Régimen Subsidiado, ensure
the effective enrollment of the poor, and improve their knowledge of entitlements. (Total
cost: US$1.3 million or 3.3 percent of total Project cost). This component would: (i) strengthen
the coordination and planning of financing of the Subsidized Regime; (ii) enroll and empower the
population eligible for the Subsidized Regime. Activities under this component would include
consultancies, training, the purchase and installation of hardware and software, the acquisition of
technical equipment, and the production of informational material to improve the process of
enrollment of the eligible population in the Subsidized Regime--among other things, by


                                                7
strengthening the birth registration system and empowering the enrolled population to use the
health care services of the PBS.

Component IV: Strengthen the capacity of the public health organization to fulfill its new
roles and functions as established in the general health and social security laws. (Total cost:
US$6.1 million or 15.6 percent of total Project cost). This component would finance activities
that build the capacity of national public health sector agencies to fulfill the roles and functions
established in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law. Priority would be given to
SESPAS, SENASA, PROMESE/CAL, the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (Secretariado
Técnico de la Presidencia or STP), and CERSS, and to activities aimed at establishing monitoring
and evaluation systems for the sector, the reform process, and its impact. The component would
also include activities to ensure the appropriate management of the Project.

Explanation of Changes in the Project's Components

24.     A new administration took office in 2004 and by December of that year, the project
finally became effective (Board approval took place in June 2003). From the early stages of
preparation in 2002 to the beginning of actual implementation in 2005, important progress was
made by the country in financing, staffing, and providing adequate infrastructure for key, central-
level institutions as needed to comply with the mandate of universal health insurance. For
instance, the Social Insurance Treasury, SENASA, and SISALRIL had already been established
and were functioning by then; however, the number of covered individuals was still minimal (less
than 70,000 of the total target population estimated at 3.2 million individuals).

25.      The new administration placed great emphasis on managing a comprehensive approach to
health sector reform, ensuring a nationwide scope of action and prioritization of interventions to
benefit the poor, and reaffirming the stewardship role of the MoH in the entire health system. At
the same time, the government sought to exploit synergies with other poverty reduction policies
by fostering coordination with other stakeholders, public agencies, donors, and international
organizations working in other sectors. This represented an important change with respect to past
approaches, when various health sector stakeholders, donors, and multilateral agencies had
actually exacerbated sectoral fragmentation with their piecemeal approaches, frequently
associated with the de facto geographical division of the country.

26.      The head of the Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform (CERSS)--who in
August of 2005 became the minister of Health--and his team produced a document on the health
sector reform entitled National Strategic Agenda for Health Sector Reform 2005, summarizing
the vision for health sector reform of the new administration. The GoDR requested that the Bank,
in the implementation phase, support focusing on strengthening the stewardship function of the
MoH while cultivating an environment conducive to collaboration and dialogue among all public
sector agencies involved.

27.    At the request of the government, the Bank team launched a series of analytical studies,
workshops, discussions, and consensus-building activities during the first 18 months of
implementation, leading to the identification of priorities and a sequence of interventions (critical
path) designed not only to culminate in the restructuring of the Project but also to ensure
ownership of the reform process by all stakeholders.




                                                 8
            Strategic Lines of the National Sector Agenda for Health Reform
   (summary extracted from the document "National Strategic Agenda for Health Sector Reform 2005")

The key areas of focus of the new administration were the following issues:

             Strengthening the stewardship role of SESPAS, with emphasis on the basic public health
             functions and the reorganization of programs in the framework of the reform.
             Development of the Regional Health Networks.
             Ensuring equitable access to quality medicines.
             Ensuring health insurance coverage with an emphasis on the poor to:
                  i. Ensure access to quality health services
                 ii. Enhance the demand side
                iii. Accelerate the social protection of the poor via their enrollment into the Régimen
                     Subsidiado (subsidized regime) of the Seguro Familiar (Family Insurance) in
                     prioritized regions and provinces

Moreover, two overarching intervention areas were included as cross-cutting topics for the agenda:

        Strengthening Human Resources in the health sector (performance and management)
     Development and implementation of a management system based on modules



28.      The Project was redesigned to reflect new organizational, institutional, and political
realities that favored an accelerated reform pace and raising financial resources for the health
insurance of the poor. In the process, the GoDR with the support of the Bank, built consensus and
established communication bridges among key organizations that previously had been working
under a silo approach, in an uncoordinated fashion, which constituted one of the greatest
bottlenecks for the reform since the relevant laws had been passed in 2001.

29.     As a result, the Bank supported the GoDR initiatives to use the Project activities to
jumpstart a collective effort involving all key public health sector organizations (MoH, SENASA,
and the Ministry of Economy, Planning, and Development (Ministerio de Economía,
Planificación y Desarrollo or MEPD) to re-launch the reform process, with emphasis on social
protection for the poorest families. The critical path formed a framework for making selective
investments, aimed at laying the basis for a new approach to strengthening the infrastructure,
organization, and management of health care. Within this overall framework, emphasis was to be
placed on the supply of services at the first level of care and on the long-term goal of maximizing
the impact on preventive health care and care interventions for the poor and most vulnerable
groups of the population.

1.7 Other significant changes

Financial Management

30.      The Project components also came to represent the disbursement categories--thereby
reducing the total number of categories that had to be documented and monitored as Project
components (as opposed to type of expenditures) from seven to four. To simplify financial
management and Project execution, the Bank's financing share was increased to 80 percent across
all Project activities. This unified share was higher than the original one (70 percent), but still
lower than the maximum allowed by the new Country Financing Parameters (90 percent). These

                                                     9
changes were in line with the Country Financing Parameters and Bank Norms, which have been
updated since the Project's approval.

31.      The increase in the share of Bank financing to 80 percent sought to enable the
implementation of the first 12-month Procurement Plan of the restructured Project (US$14
million), without major changes to the counterpart fund allocations already approved for 2006
and requested for 2007. This change resulted in a reduction of the Project size from US$42.7 to
US$39.1 million (see table 1). Despite this reduction, the available resources were believed to be
sufficient to achieve the revised PDOs.

                  Table 1: Financing Plan--Original versus restructured Project

                                      Original Project          Restructured Project

              Borrower               US$12.7 million (30%)      US$9.1 million (23%)
              IBRD                   US$30.0 million (70%)       US$30.0 million (77%)
              Total                 US$42.7 million (100%)      US$39.1 million (100%)


Procurement

32.     The Bank's revised procurement guidelines (May 2004) were adopted at restructuring.
This meant: (i) the introduction of additional procurement methods (e.g., Quality-Based Selection,
Selection under a Fixed Budget, and Single-Source Selection) and the abolishment of aggregate
thresholds for all procurement methods, providing more flexibility and efficiency in the use of
loan funds; and (ii) the mandatory use of a procurement plan to support the planning and
coordination across implementing agencies.

33.     The closing date of the Loan was extended by 12 months, that is, through December 31,
2008. This first extension sought to partially compensate for the 18-month delay in Project
effectiveness caused by late congressional approval and subsequent implementation delays owing
to Project design problems.

Second Amendment (July 2008)

34.      Additional changes to the Project were requested by the GoDR and agreed with the Bank
at the time of the Mid-Term Review of the Project. The GoDR had allocated increasing amounts
of financial resources to accelerate the expansion of health insurance coverage for the poor,
which led to the need to support the GoDR in several activities nationwide. Although great
progress had been made at the highest level among public health sector ministries and agencies,
important constraints remained within some institutions, in particular the MoH.

35.     Keeping the required high levels of internal coordination and joint planning and
implementation of activities was a moving target, since the MoH itself had embarked on an
ambitious agenda of institutional reengineering. The first restructuring process had contributed to
building a broad consensus on the mid- and long-term vision of the reform and on how the
Project would benefit the activities in each institution. However, the GoDR considered it
important to reinforce the capacity of the MoH to steward the reform process and expand the
scope of efforts to ensure that all the key public agencies could keep pace with the rapidly
growing population covered by health insurance for the poor.



                                                10
36.     The GoDR felt that some constraints in the coordination capacity at the horizontal level
(among various branches of the MoH) and vertical level (between the central level and the SRS)
were leading to delays in the initiation of key activities meant to strengthen the stewardship of the
MoH (at the central level) and the supply of services (at the level of the decentralized SRS).
These problems were exacerbated by natural disasters that affected the Dominican Republic at the
end of 2007.

37.     Therefore, the second amendment extended the Project's closing date by 12 months,
through December 31, 2009, and introduced the following changes in the Project:

An expansion of the geographical scope of the Project activities under Component I so as to cover
the entire country. Given the financial constraints at the time of restructuring, it was thought that
enrollment in the RS would be gradually achieved, starting with four of the nine health regions.
However, the political momentum achieved with the re-launching of health sector reform resulted
in the allocation of larger amounts of resources for the expansion of health insurance coverage
nationwide. Therefore, the amendment modified the description of Component I, introducing the
possibility of financing critical improvements in the health care delivery system nationwide to
meet the increasing demand generated by new enrollments in the RS.

An expansion of the scope of activities of the Project to complement the government's ongoing
efforts to strengthen the capacity of all key organizations to fulfill their roles and functions as
established in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law. First, by increasing the
number of activities led by the MoH that were aimed at strengthening the MoH's capacity to
exercise its stewardship role during the process of institutional reengineering. Second, by
engaging other key stakeholders. This meant essentially to incorporate two additional agencies
into the collective decision making on planning and implementation of Project activities: (i) the
Superintendence for Health and Labor Risks (Superintendencia de Salud y Riesgos Laborales or
SISALRIL) and the Directorate of Social Security Beneficiaries' Information and Advocacy
(Dirección de Información y Defensa de los Afiliados a la Seguridad Social or DIDA).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation

38.      Quality Enhancement Review (QER) satisfactory evaluation of the Project's quality at
entry. In September 2003, the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the quality at
entry of the Project. Overall, the panel rated the quality at entry Satisfactory. The Project was
rated Highly Satisfactory for its Strategic Relevance and Approach. All other dimensions were
rated Satisfactory on the whole; nevertheless, the QER highlighted implementation areas that
required further elaboration. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) only outlined clearly the
Project Coordination Unit's (Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto or PCU) responsibilities for the
Project but not for the four Project Implementation Units (Unidades Ejecutoras del Proyecto or
UEPs). It also described the functions of other public agencies that were to have their own
Implementation Units. However, the PAD did not specify how the implementation was to be
carried out by such a large number of Implementation Units.

39.     Project Design. Given the ambitious, long-term vision for the sectoral changes and the
breadth of the existing legal framework for the health reform, the choice of the APL as financing
instrument was appropriate. The selection of the original PDOs for the APL correctly identified

                                                 11
the key issues relevant to the reform. Both the Project and the choice of indicators to measure the
outcomes attributable to the Project interventions were ambitious.

40.      The original Project design had maintained the approach followed by the Provincial
Health Service Project, which had preceded the new APL, prioritizing activities in the same
provinces. At the time, the Project had reflected the overall agreement on the long-term goals.
While the PAD acknowledged that the Project could support the reform efforts, the Bank also
realized that its ability to influence the outcomes of the reform would be limited. Nevertheless,
this insight was not reflected in the goals, through the outcome indicators set for the Project. The
Project activities and the responsibilities for their implementation were not always fully defined,
making it very challenging to achieve the selected PDOs within the time-frame of the
implementation of APL1.

41.      Institutional arrangements: Institutional arrangements were not well defined, especially
when considering the complexity of having four UEPs. The failure to clearly delimit the roles of
all entities involved in the Project and, at a later stage, the lack of details in the Operational
Manual placed a heavy coordination burden on the PCU.

42.     Risk Analysis. The PAD did not consider a risk the challenges posed by a project design
that involved multiple implementing agencies, thereby raising unrealistic expectations among
them regarding their autonomy in developing separate operational and procurement plans and
having fiduciary responsibilities over project implementation. As a result, once the Project
became effective, frictions caused by discussions and negotiations over how to plan and
implement activities emerged. These difficulties made it even more challenging to actually start
with the activities.

2.2 Implementation

Factors that posed challenges to project implementation

43.     The financial crisis and changes in the administration led to delays in the Project's
approval by Congress. The Project was prepared in the midst of a major financial crisis in the
final year of an outgoing administration which, after losing the elections, yielded power to a new
government that took office in August 2004. Congressional priorities that emerged as a result of
the crisis and political negotiations with the opposition in both the outgoing and incoming
administration had a negative impact on the approval of the Project by Congress (18 months had
passed before it was finally approved in December 2004).

44.      Once the Project became effective, the incoming administration requested that the Bank
carry out a major restructuring of the Project. The process of restructuring launched in May 2005
included the development of a conceptual framework for a critical path that would prioritize the
poorest families and other vulnerable groups (i.e., mothers and children). Substantial background
technical work and extensive discussions with the stakeholders, conducted in the framework of
the restructuring, catalyzed a high-level agreement that provided the political endorsement of key
organizations including the MoH, the MEPD, SENASA and PROMESE/CAL. As a result, the
signing in May of 2006 of a mid-term agenda crystallized the commitment of these organizations
to relaunch the reform. The shared agenda made it easier to overcome health sector reform
bottlenecks stemming from the lack of a comprehensive approach to the development of a mid-
term critical path to leapfrog social protection in health. The new agenda focused on the rapid
expansion of health insurance coverage for the poor and the implementation of activities aimed at
strengthening the institutional capacity of the MoH to exercise its stewardship role, lead the

                                                12
decentralization push, and improve the supply of services with an emphasis on primary care. As a
consequence, beyond adjusting the Project to the new realities and governmental priorities, the
process of restructuring had itself generated a coordination space that fostered concerted actions
by key stakeholders.

45.       Rapid expansion of enrollment of the poor. The targeting mechanisms for the health
insurance for the poor were aligned with other social programs including the conditional cash
transfer program known as Solidaridad. The adoption of a mechanism for identification of the
poor (Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios or SIUBEN) through Solidaridad laid the ground for better
targeting and more rapidly enrolling persons qualifying for the health insurance for the poor once
the government had allocated sufficient resources for that purpose. SENASA focused on boosting
enrollment and the demand for health services, which were sometimes hindered by the lack of
coordination with the service providers. The implementation of the health insurance at a faster
pace than the implementation of the model of decentralization and strengthening of the MoH's
stewardship made it challenging to match the demand and supply of quality services, particularly
at the first level of care.

46.      Expectations created by organizational arrangements of the original Project design
posed challenges for the start of the Project implementation. Project implementation as initially
designed proved to be cumbersome. This in turn led to difficulties in reaching consensus on
annual operational and procurement plans since each institution sought to finance its own
fiduciary unit and cut the Project in five independent operational plans with insufficient
coordination among the units involved. The operational manual approved did not provide an
adequate operational framework for implementation by four UEPs. Furthermore, the necessary
inter-institutional agreements had not been signed.

47.       There was a lack of adequate planning, technical assessment, and supervision in the
initial stages of implementation of civil works. Civil works was is one of the main challenges to
Project implementation. More detailed information is provided in the Annex section. Annex 12
provides a summary of the final evaluation of the implementation of civil works.

48.      A survey of the needs for infrastructure and basic services at the first level of health
service provision was carried out in 2006. The survey was prepared by different consultants hired
by the PCU. The generally inadequate level of expertise in the preparatory and planning stages
for civil works, compounded by the insufficient depth of the assessment of needs, posed serious
challenges to the implementation of civil works, which represented about a third of the total
amount of the loan.

49.      The subpar quality of the technical evaluation and the preparatory work done for the civil
works manifested itself in different aspects of the implementation. For instance, the unsatisfactory
technical evaluation of the various factors that needed to be taken into account and addressed
even before the development of blueprints (i.e., site selection, in-depth technical evaluation of the
terrain and soil for the type of civil work) led to major shortcomings in the cost estimation. The
wide variety of civil works included as part of the Project--ranging from basic refurbishments to
the construction of health centers and major civil works for hospitals and a medicines'
warehouse--exacerbated the lack of adequate technical planning and evaluation.

50.     All these factors had a negative impact on the planning for procurement and bidding as
well as on the actual construction work, particularly at the end of the project, when most of the
civil works were executed. Substantial and numerous changes had to be made to the original cost
estimates for the small civil works projects and to their final design. This resulted in a highly

                                                 13
inefficient process which posed multiple technical challenges; the latter had to be overcome in a
very short period of time that coincided with the final year of Project implementation. Moreover,
the small refurbishment works were lumped together for the bidding process, which was not
really a viable approach given the asymmetries in the diagnostics carried out by different
consultants, something that both the CERSS and the Bank supervision team had failed to point
out. As a result, civil works proposals already approved had to be altered significantly during the
implementation stage and substantial cost increases had to be dealt with. The geographical
dispersion of the small civil work projects made implementation even more difficult, although
these projects had been grouped together to make them financially more interesting for
contractors as well. Regarding the large civil works (such as the PROMESE/CAL warehouse),
the technical analysis carried out to determine the investment needs had been subpar, requiring
that significant changes be made in Project design and cost estimates at a later stage.

51.      PCU's weaknesses in supervising and managing the implementation of civil works:
CERSS showed important weaknesses in its capacity to manage the technical and managerial
aspects of civil works, including the procurement processes needed to successfully complete all
the civil works contemplated in the Project after restructuring.

52.      The lack of adequate planning (both from a procurement and technical perspective), the
subpar assessment of needs and supervision of the entire process for civil works led to serious
inefficiencies and delays in Project implementation. Sometimes, after civil works had been
awarded to the lowest bidding firms, the awardees proved unable to deliver with the quality and
timeliness required, particularly when prices contractually agreed to were substantially lower
than the market reference prices.

53.     For instance, following a lengthy process, the contract for the construction of the Hospital
of Pimentel ended up being cancelled once obvious, serious technical problems had been detected.
However, some expenses were made to protect and repair the faulty construction that had been
developed by the awarded firm. In the end, this project could no longer be financed with loan
resources since it would have required a third extension, which in turn would have required a
change of the closing date for a period longer than 2 years beyond the original closing date.
Although the government decided to complete the hospital with its own resources (as the Bank
did not provide the no objection to continue with this large-scale civil work, among other reasons
because it was unlikely to be completed by closing date), this did affect the efficiency of the use
of resources for this civil work.

Factors that facilitated Project implementation:

54.      Agreement among the key institutions in the health sector. In July 2006, a new inter-
institutional agreement was signed. The agreement included the commitment of all of the
institutions involved to work towards making progress with the health reform, set the main
objectives and results to be achieved in the medium term, and identified the institution
responsible for achieving them.

55.      Substantial emphasis placed on reaching consensus during the restructuring process.
The Borrower and the Bank dedicated much time and effort to the review and assessment of the
progress made with the health sector reform. Rather than working on a single document to reflect
the changes and agreements, the teams focused on dialogue, consensus building, and defining the
priorities and activities that would lead to reaching the objectives sought. The process, which
lasted short of 2 years, was fruitful in building alliances and understanding among the relevant


                                                   14
institutions and with civil society. Numerous workshops and information and dissemination
events were organized during this period.

56.      Flexibility to choose activities within the objectives of the sector reform, without blocking
Project implementation. The Borrower and the Bank remained flexible as far as working within
the critical path defined during the restructuring was concerned. This was reflected in an
unusually wide operational program, which included more activities than could realistically be
carried out. Nevertheless, this flexibility gave room to finance and carry out activities under the
umbrella of the sector reform that could contribute to the overall reform objectives. The Bank
remained flexible--i.e., willing to adapt the Project--as implementation progressed. This was
illustrated by the support provided to the discussions and agreements on the implementation of
the mandatory health insurance not only for the RS but for the Contributory Regime as well.

57.     Strengthening of the supervision of all infrastructure projects. The Bank team
strengthened the supervision of civil works in November 2008 and hired a specialized consultant
to conduct an in-depth review of the status of the implementation of ongoing civil works,
including field visits, with a view to identifying potential technical planning problems and
assessing what works were likely to be concluded before the closing date of the Project. To
overcome the serious implementation delays and achieve the disbursements of funds, the
Borrower and the Bank agreed on a schedule of implementation and supervision. Numerous field
visits were carried out through Project completion and this translated into the satisfactory
completion of the works and an accelerated pace of disbursements.

58.     Government satisfactory allocation of counterpart funds. Despite the global economic
crisis and its negative effects on the country, the government sustained the allocation of
counterpart funds to finance the Project activities.

59.     Changes in teams were beneficial to the rhythm of implementation. Clearly there was an
important change in the pace of implementation when the new management team took over in
August 2008. At the time the new Bank team took over the Project, half of the Project resources
were pending disbursements, largely caused by problems and delays in civil works. The team
conducted in-depth discussions with the Borrower and a review of the Project activities with the
relevant actors. This approached allowed for an accelerated pace of implementation and
disbursement of the remaining Loan amount.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), Design, Implementation and Utilization

60.      The original Project included some indicators linked to the MDGs and some free-
standing ones to assess the outcomes achieved in the 2003-06 period. It also included a list of
output indicators to track the progress made with Project activities (see Annex 2). The indicators
originally selected to assess the impact of the Project focused on final outcomes, which
significantly limited their usefulness for measuring the Project's impact, since several outcomes
are known to be affected by many factors beyond the control of the Project. Therefore, it would
have been difficult to show a causal relation between the Project interventions and the
measurement of target indicators. These indicators might have been adequate for the long-term
APL, if the three loan Project components and PDOs had remained unchanged during the 12
years of implementation. However, for the first phase of the APL, they were clearly too ambitious.

61.      The first-order restructuring of the Project in 2006 introduced a new set of indicators (17
in total) linked to the new PDOs and the expected outcomes of each of the new components. The
Restructuring Board Project Paper included outcome indicators, but did not propose any

                                                 15
intermediate indicators. However, as a result of the extensive work done with the Borrower's
team to prepare the restructuring of the Project, intermediate indicators had been defined and used
by CERSS to be able to regularly monitor the progress of the Project, as agreed in a document
that summarized the critical path and that was used to draft the operational and procurement plans
(see Annex No 2); the ISR reflects these indicators.

62.     At the time of restructuring no integrated efforts to monitor and evaluate health system
performance was in place. There were fragmented data collection systems of uneven development
among all key stakeholders of the health sector reform. The process of agreement on health sector
reform priorities catalyzed the identification of working on M&E modules as a priority to
advance and measure progress towards the objectives of the reform. The large number of
indicators that had been agreed with all the institutions at the original design of the project was
reduced. Indicators 2,3,4,5 and 12 would include surveys to collect data but given the short period
of time for the project left only a baseline and second measurement were agreed to be financed.
The framework considered several indicators (indicatrors 1,6,7,9,13 and 16) that would capture
progress once policy changes would have been put in place and administrative information
systems and procedures strengthened and measure was not collected by surveys but collected by
the PCU. Finally the framework included several indicators that would capture qualitative
changes in procedures and policy decisions.

63.      After project restructuring the Bank had had an important achievement in the
development of M&E system in the HIV/AIDS strategy led by COPRESIDA through the support
provided within the context of the HIV/AIDS prevention and control project. At the request of the
government an ambitious an expanded Demographic and Health Survey was financed through the
loans and would provide key information for monitoring mother and child health care. The GAIN
grant managed by the Bank was also successful in developing a baseline for nutrition. The
successful experience of the construction of these baselines and the strenthtening stewardship and
the reengineering process of the MoH resulted in prioritization of strengthening national efforts
rather than favoring individual modules.

64.      Both in the original design of the Project and after its restructuring, the PCU was all
assigned the responsibility for carrying out the main Project monitoring and evaluation activities.
External factors (such as tropical storm Noel and procurement problems) delayed the completion
of surveys. The targets were set at the moment of restructuring, while the studies had not yet been
carried out. Once the results were obtained, it turned out the proposed targets were not realistic,
given the time left for the implementation of the Project. However only seven months prior to
presidential elections the outcomes were not clear and the possibility of a new administration with
changes in leadership of public organizations the Bank team choose to focus instead on ensuring
sufficient progress on key aspects of the reform.

65.     The rational was to consolidate gains in progress of the reform so that if new authorities
or a new administration would come the dialogue would focus on how to the project could
contribute to move forward the achievements of the reform agenda in the following four years. It
was agreed with the government that a new M&E system would be discussed after elections. This
indeed occurred and the decision was to have a more integrate approach. The new Monitoring,
Information and Evaluation Unit was established at the MoHs now plays a key role in the
development and harmonization of data collection and analysis modules fostering multisectorial
and inter institutional agency coordination.

66.     To strengthen the capacity of the MoH to exercise its stewardship role and to avoid "silos"
and fragmented information modules, the government has created the new National Monitoring

                                                16
Unit (Unidad Nacional de Monitoreo or UNM). This unit is in charge of providing leadership,
coordination, and technical assistance and is to ensure that all key stakeholders across the health
sector (including the MoH at the central level, SENASA, and the SRS) are on the same page; it is
also responsible for the timely implementation of an integrated information system for the sector
in accordance with national and health sector priorities.

67.     The design of an action plan and new instruments and mechanisms to collect, aggregate,
and analyze data to monitor performance and results based agreements (Conjunto Mínimo de
Datos Básicos or CMDB) have been agreed with all stakeholders at the central and regional level.
The CMDB was designed in such a way that the data collected will be useful for the reform of the
CCT Solidaridad Program, particularly to improve the monitoring of the conditionalities of its
beneficiaries. The CMDB will be digitalized and automated in Regions VI and VIII over the next
12 months and progressively also in the rest of the country.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards: Moderately satisfactory

68.      Compliance with Bank's safeguard policies was in general satisfactory. The
environmental assessment carried out during Project preparation resulted in a category B rating
for this safeguard policy. The Borrower complied with the environmental guidelines regarding
the civil works carried out under the Project. An assessment of the biomedical waste
management practices in the country was carried out, providing recommendations for
improvement. Training of personnel on the management of hazardous waste was carried out with
resources provided through bilateral agreements with Japan.

69.      The original Project allocated resources under Component I to finance improvements in
the biomedical waste management of the different participating institutions, the acquisition of
equipment, the training of personnel, and the development of guidelines and internal norms. The
Project built on the achievements of the previous Provincial Health Services Project 5 and
provided resources to continue supporting the strengthening of biomedical waste management,
including the development of guidelines and training. The General Health Law of 2001
established the Basic principles regarding health waste management but a specific regulation for
waste management in hospitals was developed (Reglamento de Residuos Hospitalarios) and
finally approved in June 2009. This norm was revised by the NHC in 2007­08. All of the Project
activities were guided by these norms.

70.     In October 2007 the NHC approved the regulation on the Management of biomedical
waste in health centers (Reglamento sobre los Desechos y Residuos generados por los Centros de
Salud y Afines). The regulation was adopted by the executive in 2009 (Decree 126-09). The
Project contributed by preparing an operational manual (Manual de Residuos de Servicios de
Salud) in 2008, to facilitate the implementation of the new regulation, and by updating the
Project's Operational Manual accordingly, thus complying with the Loan Agreement. While the
Borrower had complied with the Loan agreement by Project completion, the process was sluggish
due to multiple factors, including the lengthy approval process of the new regulation, and was

5
  The Provincial Health Services Project contributed to improve healthcare waste management in the country by
financing the assessment of waste management in healthcare facilities under the project, buying incinerators and other
equipment for the large hospitals in the country, training of staff in biomedical waste management, and designing and
updating the environmental norms and guidelines.


                                                          17
finally completed in the context (or perhaps the urgency) of preparing the follow-up operation
(APL2). While the norms and regulations are in place there is a clear need to systematically
measure progress on its implementation in the future. During discussions for preparation of the
APL2, the GoDR initiated a dialogue with the Bank to identify alternatives for mechanisms
through which the Bank can assist health sector stakeholders in developing and implementing a
monitoring system to support the enforcement of the new regulations.

Procurement: Moderately Unsatisfactory

71.     The first Procurement Plan submitted after the Project had become effective had been
developed to ensure consistency with the discussions regarding the upcoming restructuring of the
Project and was considered of low quality--the procurement processes were deemed slow and
many errors in decision-making were identified.

72.     In 2008, the ex-post review found important weaknesses in procurement planning and the
implementation of activities, particularly regarding civil works. It highlighted inconsistent
adherence to good procurement practices and the Bank's guidelines, including inadequate and
incomplete information on contracts under implementation and bid evaluation. After discussions
with the Bank, the PCU strengthened its procurement team to improve overall procurement
performance and agreed to an evaluation in the ex-post review of the following year.

73.     In mid-2009, despite procurement staff strengthening, the ex-post procurement review
found that the weaknesses previously identified had persisted. The conclusion was that the PCU
did have a stronger procurement team but there were other flaws in the process of evaluating bids
and awarding contracts. More specifically, in the contracts reviewed, the team found non-
compliance with the Bank's procurement policies and inconsistencies with the bidding documents
issued by the PCU. The evaluation also found problems in several procurement processes and, in
one case, the Bank declared misprocurement on infrastructure activities and, consequently,
cancelled US$555,405 of the total loan amount.

74.     Remedial steps were immediately taken to strengthen the technical supervision of civil
works. Also it was agreed with the PCU that all the activities will be conducted only with a prior
review of all civil works agreed with the Borrower. Secondly, a plan to improve adherence to the
Bank's procurement guidelines was devised, with a focus on the procedures for shopping
requirements. The rating was upgraded to moderately unsatisfactory before Project closing.

75.     Although the lion's share of activities were civil works, implementation during the last
year represented more than 50 percent of loan disbursements, including a very large number of
small activities involving many stakeholders and multiple agencies. These activities posed serious
planning challenges. The last ex-post review found that the last year of implementation again
showed weaknesses in terms of planning and other stages of the procurement process.

Financial Management: Satisfactory

76.     Financial management was rated satisfactory throughout the life of the Project. There
were no problems with counterpart funding during implementation. The Borrower submitted the
audit reports on time and they were, in general, unqualified.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


                                               18
77.      Preparation and approval of the next phase of the APL: The 2001 Laws contained the
main principles and objectives of the health reform. These were supported by the APL as a whole.
The APL1 contributed to substantial progress towards two critical areas of the reform: increase
social protection for the poor population through a mandatory health insurance providing a family
health package and improve performance and accountability in the health system. Regarding the
first area, by Project completion over 1.3 million poor people had health insurance coverage
provided by the subsidized regime. By the end of 2010, the government estimates that will be
able to cover roughly 2 million people and 2.5 by the end of 2011 out of the total estimated 3.2
million of the target population. At project closing there were roughly 2.2 million people covered
by the contributory system (for heads of households in the formal sector and their dependents).
Expansion of coverage of health insurance via the subsidized system (for the poor) and the
contributory (for individuals in the formal sector and their dependants) are critical components of
the system of social protection to which APL1 contributed.

78.      The APL1 contributed to the reorganization of the regional health systems. The Project
contributed to create regional public health care networks which were beginning to function by
Project completion. The Regional Health Services, organized as networks, were the providers of
health services, with different levels of assistance. The APL1 contributed to progress in critical
areas of intervention required to advance the reform: improving performance of the health system.
Strategic interventions that were made possible by APL1 include the signing of performance
agreements with SRS;6 the development of operational manuals, information systems and other
instruments that facilitated coordination and harmonization of financing mechanisms used by
SENASA and the MoH with the SRS; the implementation of new regulatory instruments for the
delivery of care based on a new model based on a primary health care approach; the accelerated
decentralization of the management of networks of providers, i.e. delegating some important
decisions on the management of human resources to the regions--now in Regions VI and VIII.
one of the most significant changes in terms of human resources management in the health sector
in the last decades.

79.       The rationale for proceeding with APL2 with Board Approval was linked to the APL1
outputs and results, laying the ground for the development of a joint MoH-SENASA strategy
based on results-based financing for the first level of care. The Bank and the Borrower decided to
go ahead with the preparation of the second phase of the APL based on the progress achieved in
the first phase (although the targets had not been met) and progress made to health reform agenda
in two of the most critical aspects that had been key bottlenecks: health insurance coverage and
decentralization of services. These instrumental changes in the sector along with improved
definition of roles and coordination among key stakeholders faced new challenges with increased
demand.

80.      As a result of policy dialogue and assessment of outputs and results of PARSS1 and
within the framework of the global economic crisis which reduced fiscal revenues, the
government decided to have a more efficient allocation of resources to keep the poverty reduction
goals. The Ministries of Health, Finance, Economy, Planning and Development and in
coordination with SENASA decided to introduce new harmonized financing mechanisms for the
first level of care to generate incentives for improved quality of services with an emphasis on the
poor. Results-adjusted capitations was the financing mechanisms identified as the best option to

6
  On July 1, 2009, the MoH signed the first two performance agreements with two SRS (Regions VI and VIII), which
constitutes a major step towards decentralization. In Maya ll the SRS had signed performance agreements with the
MoH.


                                                       19
improve quality of spending via separation of financing from delivery of care and to introduce
tools for strategic purchasing.

81.     The government has worked out in great detail a model for improving the performance of
decentralized SRS. The MoH has reached agreement with SENASA on a set of performance
indicators to be introduced in performance agreements and contracts between the MoS, SENASA,
and the SRS. The MoH has signed management agreements with Regions VI and VIII and,
therefore, the prior necessary actions have been taken. The MoH and SENASA have also signed
management-by-objectives agreements with the other regions. Furthermore, in two regions (VI
and VIII) the MoH has signed performance agreements that contain specific indicators and targets
to be measured on a quarterly basis, as the first stage in the use of results-based financing.

82.     The APL phase II included in its design results based mechanisms, was approved by the
Board in August 2009 and became effective in January 2010. With the support of the Bank,
SENASA is signing contracts with SRS and introducing the same system of results-based
financing for the first level of care in at least two SRS (VI and VIII) which are harmonized with
the performance agreements of the MoH with the same SRS. The goal is to seek expanded impact
through a unified system of results adjusted capitation while increasing accountability and
providing incentives for delivery of better quality of services for the poor.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of objectives: High

83.      The PDOs for the APL1 were very well aligned with the country's new legal framework
for the health sector reform. The first-order restructuring of 2006 changed the PDOs of the APL1
to reflect the consensus reached on a 3-year agenda for the health sector reform. These were
highly relevant not only to the progress of the reform but also to the GoDR's priorities--they laid
the ground work for a multiannual development plan that aims to exploit the synergies resulting
from poverty reduction interventions across sector and public agencies.

Relevance of design and implementation: Low

84.      The original Project design could have contributed to the health sector reform agenda but
its design showed shortcomings that made it hard to achieve the PDOs during the life of the
Project. The first component involved supporting the extension of health services to achieve
universal coverage. The Project design focused its interventions only on selected health regions
while the PDOs' outcomes focused on the entire population. More important, organizational
arrangements were not conducive to better coordination and the attainment of highly ambitious
targets.

85.      The restructuring of December 2006 changed the design and implementation of the
Project-- refocusing on the process rather than the achievement of targets. Furthermore, the
Project was also ambitious in its scope (particularly regarding the activities to be carried out by
the MoH), as it sought to give a significant boost to the broader national agenda of expanding
social protection; further advancing poverty reduction strategies such as the CCT ; and providing


                                                20
birth certificates to children so they can get access to basic social services. Therefore, while the
design of the restructured Project was relevant to the country's priorities, it was inconsistent with
selected indicators and above all the highly ambitious targets.

86.      The implementation of the restructured Project shows major flaws, particularly regarding
monitoring and evaluation and the strengthening of the supply of services. These flaws became
more obvious after the Mid-Term Review. Although the implementation, in the restructuring
phase, showed great adaptiveness to the country's new realities and the new government's health
sector reform agenda, it became less responsive to the changes that occurred after restructuring.
This became more evident once the baselines had been constructed. Although external factors--
such as the floods that affected various activities to be carried out by the MoH and the national
debate on the contributory system--crowded out much of the attention of key policy makers, by
the end of the third year of implementation there were signs that suggested it was time for a
serious review of indicators and targets and for rethinking the implementation timeline of planned
activities.

87.     Furthermore, after the Mid-Term Review, the Project implementation failed to fully and
timely adapt to the emerging realities, i.e., sluggish decision-making processes within the MoH
persisted due to its complex structure and internal reengineering processes. The Project's
implementation in terms of PDO indicators and targets was again discussed only in the Project's
final 15 months, after general elections had given the incumbent administration a second term.
However, by then it was clear that some indicators would not be met and this, coupled with the
ensuing global crisis, prompted the government to accelerate the preparation of APL2 rather than
amend ongoing projects.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Original PDOs
Rating: Unsatisfactory

88.      Soon after the Project had become effective and in the early stages of the analytical work
and discussions on the restructuring of the Project, it became clear that the PDOs would need to
be changed. During practically the first 2 years of implementation until the restructuring was
officially countersigned in December 2006, the bulk of the Loan and counterpart resources were
devoted to identifying the main bottlenecks of the health sector reform, building consensus, and
defining a critical reform path from which selected activities would be financed by the Project.
For these reasons, at the time of restructuring, only approximately US$4.2 million (or 15 percent)
of the total loan amount had been disbursed and virtually no progress had been made towards the
achievement of the original PDOs.

Restructured PDOs
Rating: Unsatisfactory

89.      The PDOs and Project indicators were revised at restructuring. The amended PDOs
reflected a comprehensive approach in order to align the Project with the government's poverty
reduction policies, which translated into a complex operational plan encompassing an extremely
broad range of activities. This approach's main strengths were that: (i) resources were allocated to
various key stakeholders to complement government resources allocated to expand health
insurance coverage for the poor; and (ii) the Project activities fostered coordination among all

                                                 21
parties involved, particularly regarding the MoH initiatives to decentralize towards the SRS. The
latter was done in close coordination with SENASA, which prepared the ground for the
introduction of new mechanisms for results-based financing.

90.      Important shortcomings of the revised Project were the broad scope of planned activities,
and the dependence of the impact of some activities on policy decisions that could be negatively
affected by the political economy of the public sector reform. Also, it seems unrealistic to assume
that some activities financed, such as the development of new protocols and treatment guidelines
and training could have such an impact on the medical staff's behavior to meet agreed targets. In
general, a key shortcoming of the Project's design after restructuration was setting overly
ambitious targets and maintaining those unrealistic targets even after the baselines had been
constructed or implementation of key activities was delayed. The Project successfully
implemented a significant number of activities relevant for the overall advancing of the health
sector reform but many of these activities' outcomes did not meet agreed targets. Even if all the
changes had been introduced in a timely fashion, several targets still seem unlikely to have been
met during the Project's implementation, even with the extension of the closing date by 2 years.

PDO I: Improve access of the poor in Prioritized Regions and Provinces to high-quality
health services included in the Basic Health Plan of the Family Health Insurance

91.      The degree of achievement of this objective was to be measured by indicators 1­7 of the
results framework. While progress was made towards achieving the targets set, all indicators fell
short of the targets agreed at restructuring,

Indicator 1
Percentage of public primary health care facilities in PRPs that are accredited with SESPAS

92.      As explained in the Borrower's Final Implementation Report, in order to achieve this
indicator, the primary health care centers had to meet the following criteria: (i) have adequate
infrastructure and equipment as stipulated in the guidelines of the General Directorate of
Authorization and Accreditation (Dirección General de Habilitación y Acreditación or DGHA);
and (ii) have an adequate team including a graduated and certified physician (physician with
exequatur), a certified nurse, and a health promotion supervisor. The target was not achieved,
mainly because most of the physicians were graduated physicians but due to an existing law they
do not have final license to practice (exequatur) until they complete the first year in a public
health care unit (which is the case for an estimated 70% of facilities). Other reasons include: (a)
decisions regarding the staffing of the primary health care centers were beyond the control of the
Project since these requires an adequate allocation of fiscal resources (for the financing of new
staff) and changes to laws and civil service policies, which were not introduced by the Ministry of
Health (MoH) during the life of the Project; and (b) DGHA did not have effective enforcement
mechanisms for primary health care centers that continued their operations without accreditation.
Within the context of the new Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors Development
Policy Loan (PASS DPL) approved by the Board in 2009, nationwide shortcomings in
infrastructure, equipment, and staffing were identified and the government allocated funds to
bridge these gaps in order to ensure access to basic services for the poor which is expected to
boost the supply side gap and exploit synergies with the conditional cash transfer program (CCT)
Solidaridad. This indicator was one of the APL trigger indicators.


Indicator 2


                                                22
Percentage of public health units in PRPs that have tracer drugs that are part of the Basic
Health Plan (Plan Básico de Salud) available for the population enrolled in the RS.

93.    At the time of restructuring, the target was to achieve a percentage higher than 50 percent.
The baseline was defined in 2007 and the target was then set at 80 percent. Agreements between
the MOH, SENASA, and PROMESE/CAL introduced changes to how medicines would be
provided and to ensure that not all primary health care centers would have stocks of medicines,
but only those that did not have a PROMESE/CAL distributing pharmacy in their vicinity.
Moreover, variations in stock levels--due to the current procurement and supply chain design--
impede an accurate estimate of the actual availability of drugs when only one measurement is
used.

Indicator 3
Percentage of pregnant women who receive prenatal care services in PRPs in accordance with
national guidelines

Indicator 4
Percentage of infants who receive routine check-ups in PRPs in accordance with national
guidelines

Indicator 5
Percentage of personnel in PRPs who are familiar with the national guidelines for maternal
and child care

94.      At the time of restructuring, the baseline was not available. The "Estudio de Calidad de
la Atención Materno-Infantil," finalized in March 2008, provided the baseline. The final target
was not modified after the study was concluded. This indicator was introduced as a trigger for
the APL and its target could not be met since the nationwide training was delayed due to the
government's decision to overhaul its national guidelines in order to enhance the performance of
public sector health care networks. The highly complex task of reaching consensus among key
stakeholders on the final version of new Guidelines for Mother and Child Health Care (financed
with loan resources) took longer than expected--they were finalized only a few months before
Project closing in September 2009. However, the new guidelines include evidence-based
interventions adjusted to the new primary health care network approach and the reality of the
Dominican Republic, and have been endorsed by that authorities at various levels. Although all
the materials for training have been finalized, the actual nationwide training is only being
organized this calendar year. The Bank is now working on a multisectorial approach will be one
of the triggers for the second phase of the PASS DPL; in fact constitutes one of the supply-side
strengthening interventions aimed at complementing the improved CCT program.

Indicator 6
Percentage of managers and administrators of second-level hospitals in PRPs that were hired
through a competitive recruitment process over the last 12 months

95.      Decisions regarding the hiring of directors and other high-level staff at hospitals were
beyond the control of the Project. Achievement of this target would require changes to laws and
civil service policies. Appointments of directors for secondary and tertiary level hospitals
currently are centralized decisions taken by high-level authorities at the MOH and remain
discretionary. Although originally this was one of the issues that health authorities attempted to
address, there was just not a political consensus to introduce major changes to civil servant
human resources laws and policies.

                                               23
Indicator 7
Percentage of secondary care facilities in PRPs that disseminate quarterly performance reports

96.      A pilot system was developed and tested but not implemented before Project closing.
Although a consultancy was financed to develop a first attempt at developing new tools to be
used by hospitals to implement a performance monitoring and evaluation system government
prioritized the strengthening of institutional records and health information systems since major
flaws and weaknesses impeded an appropriate monitoring of vital statistics.

The main achievements towards this PDO are:

97.    Development of a set of clear accreditation standards for primary health care centers.
This was supported by the Project, in the context of strengthening the stewardship role of
SESPAS, and was key to improving the quality of provision of health services.

98.      Strengthening of the public entity in charge of accreditation (DGHA) through the
development of new guidelines and training of its personnel to carry out its core activity of
accreditation for health centers. The Project also provided an important tool to monitor the
performance of accredited systems and of the overall network of public providers through a geo-
referential digital system (Sistema de Información Geográfica en Salud or SIGPAS).

99.      Strengthening of the first level of care by improving the infrastructure and equipment of
primary health care centers. The Project contributed to closing the gaps in the infrastructure
network and to improving the condition of the buildings and equipment. It specifically
contributed to the construction, improvement, and refurbishment of 140 primary health care
centers and to the equipping of 502 primary health care units (Unidades de Atención Primaria or
UAPs) in the Regions III, IV, V, and VI. The Project contributed to equipping 19 secondary and
tertiary health units in the same regions. This activity was achieved after carrying out an
assessment of the basic infrastructure needs

100.     Strengthening of the regulation, procurement, and distribution of medicines

         (i) Strengthening of the regulatory framework regarding medicines: Among the main
             achievements are: (a) passing of a decree on medicines prepared by SESPAS in
             2006;7 (b) the standardization of protocols and treatment protocol for the first level of
             care; (c) the development of a new approach to foster rational selection and
             prescription thorugh a standardize prescription formulary; (d) the development and
             dissemination of new pharmaceutical protocols for units delivering primary health
             care; (e) the training of staff on this protocol at all regional health services and at the
             UAPs; (f) the training of about 20,000 staff at the regional level in the use of the
             single prescription to standardize prescriptions for primary health care medicines; (e)
             the elaboration of guidelines and norms for the management of pharmaceuticals at
             the primary health care level and (f) the strengthening of the National Health
             Laboratory of the MoH.



7
  A new Ley de Compras y Contratación del Estado was approved in 2006. This law set the basic framework for the
acquisition of medicines through international competitive bidding.


                                                       24
        (ii) Strengthening of the DGDF, by: (a) Overhauling and strengthening the regulatory
             function through: (a) Development of new regulations and operational procedures for
             private and public pharmacies were developed (b) supporting the development of
             operational manuals for this department of SESPAS; (c) defining personnel profiles
             to improve its technical capacity; (d) hiring new personnel (university graduates)
             trained on health system surveillance; and (e) improving the DGDF's physical
             infrastructure and equipment to improve monitoring and procedures.

101.    The Project contributed to strengthening the supply chain of PROMESE/CAL:

             Provided in time technical assistance through non lending technical assistance to
             identify best options for strengthening the supply chains analyzing pros and cons.

             Modernization and expansion of warehousing capacity including the construction a
             second national warehouse and the acquisition of a fleet of refrigerated trucks and
             specialized transportation to improve the supply chain.
             Support for expansion and improvement of the equipment and infrastructure of the
             network of pharmacies across the country: 426 farmacias del pueblo expand access
             to medicines to individuals from the SR but also to other individuals that can
             purchase medicines at discount prices.

102.     Development of national guidelines establishing the protocols for the treatment of
pregnant women and infants. The guidelines were elaborated in the course of 2009 and finalized
in the last quarter of that year. This allowed for enough time to train the regional facilitators but
not enough time to see practices consistently change across-the-board in primary health care
centers. The Project evaluations showed progress in the use of the guidelines. In the case of the
guidelines for the treatment of infants, 74 percent of doctors had conducted a physical exam, 68
percent had checked whether a child was up-to-date on his/her vaccinations and 26.5 percent had
checked the child's card (tarjeta perinatal). The region that presented the best results was Region
III, where more training had been given. Progress was definitely made in creating awareness of
the existence and content of the guidelines. There was not enough time before Project completion
to have a higher impact, given the time it took for the analysis to be completed and the Project
activities to be implemented. Only 7 months had passed, which is an important mitigating factor.
A possible explanation the analysis gives for the detected improvement is the availability of the
guides at the centers and the enhanced supervision at the primary health care centers.
Nevertheless, the analysis pointed out there still is a significant gap to bridge to improve the
quality of care for infants and pregnant women.

103.    The main reasons for these shortcomings are: (i) fulfilling the targets set was not entirely
under the Project's control. This applies, for instance, to the accreditation of health care centers.
In order to qualify for a license, the centers would have had to be staffed in accordance with the
norms. Most of the health centers are staffed with physicians that just graduated and need to
practice for one year after graduation in a public facility (also known as pasantes ). After this
requirement most of them leave and a new promotion of young graduates take their place. Not
only they are not acknowledged by the accreditation system because they are not yet licensed
(without exequatur) but accreditation policy is inconsistent with Law that set up the system as an
incentive for young physicians to take a position in health centers and rural areas. Accreditation
with licensed physicians other than pasantes would have required the implementation of new
human resource policies in the health sector, which was not achieved during the life of the Project.



                                                 25
104.     Another example is the indicator related to the availability of so-called tracer medicines
at health care centers. The indicator focused on the availability of medicines at the health center
but a new agreement and policy would allow individuals from the SR to obtain their medicines in
PROMESE/CAL pharmacy network reducing duplication of effort and exploiting synergies.
Project restructuring and implementation fostered the discussions and agreements that resulted in
a rapid expansion of SR and eventually of the new agreements for expanded access to SR so
reality moved faster than what could have been foreseen when the original indicator was
designed .

PDO II: Reorganizing and strengthening health systems in prioritized regions so they could
fulfill the roles and functions as established in the General Health Law and the Social
Security Law

105.  The main indicators to measure this outcome are indicators 8 and 9 of the results
framework.

Indicator 8
The design of an integrated financial and performance management system completed,
populated, and implemented

106.     A model was developed, fine-tuned for implementation on SRS and training was carried
out in the prioritized regions. However, government decided to include part of its results for the
implementation in the health sector of a national system. The new national system was developed
standardize and improve financial management (SIGEF). The activities carried out with Bank
financing served to refine the new system for the health sector and are will now become part of
the results based financing approach to be introduced not only by the MoH but also in
coordination with SENASA as part of the new results agreements signed with two health regions
(VI and VIII). This will support the capitated payments management introduced with the support
of APL2.

Indicator 9
Number of annual performance agreements between SESPAS and the SRS that include
incentives to improve performance

107.     Results based agreements were signed in the last quarter of 2009 between the MoH and
SRS of Regions VI and VIII which constituted the basis for results based financing mechanisms
introduced with the support of APL2. Also in the first months of 2010 performance agreements
were signed with all the rest of the SRS nationwide. This indicator reflect the success of various
activities financed by the Project and its predecessor and that served as springboard for the
GoDR to launch a new results based financing for the first level of care that will be introduced in
this year with the support of SENASA and with the support of the APL2.


PDO III: Strengthening the financial planning of the Subsidized Regime (Régimen
Subsidiado), ensuring the effective enrollment of the poor, and improving their knowledge
of their rights under the Family Health Insurance

108.    The outcome indicators for this PDO were numbers 10 to 13 of the results framework.




                                                26
Indicator 10
Percentage of the budget for health care services that was transferred to the Prioritized
Regions through SENASA

109.    The successful achievement of this objective exceeds the target. The rapid expansion of
health insurance coverage for the poor is at the root of this increase. At the time of the Project
closing, about one-third of the total target population (1.3 million out of 3.2 million) were
enrolled.

Indicator 11
SESPAS, SENASA, the SRS, and the STP have developed, approved, and implemented a multi-
annual financing plan for the RS in the PRPs (2008­2010)

110.    Although a multiannual financing plan as originally described was not achieved The
Borrower succeeded in elaborating a multi-annual budget (Plan Presupuestario Plurianual 2010­
2013), which involved SESPAS, SENASA and the SEEPyD. The Budget was approved by the
National Health Council (Consejo Nacional de Salud or CNS) and included a national strategy for
development. Furthermore, the preliminary discussions and coordination conducted for a multi-
annual financing plan for the Subsidized Regime served as an input for a more ambitious
multisectorial, multiannual poverty reduction development program.

Indicator 12
Percentage of poor living in PRPs that are enrolled in the RS who know the benefits of the
Family Health Insurance Plan (Seguro Familiar de Salud or SFS)

111.    Success in the rapid expansion of enrolled population outpaced plans strategy for
communication that considered a smaller population. The study carried out to elaborate the
baseline provided key information for the development of an information and communication
strategy designed to reach the enrollees in the RS. This was a trigger indicator.

Indicator 13
Percentage of children born alive in public hospitals over the preceding 12 months for which
the hospitals have an electronic copy of the birth certificate on file

112.    Although the target as measured by December of 2009 was not met the Project financed
key activities including the negotiation for a designated space, refurbishments, equipment and
training in 34 hospitals that account for 80 percent of the deliveries nationwide. The software
required took longer than expected to be developed and adjusted to the actual needs and
technological requirements but according to the most of the hospitals are implementing the
system in this CY as noted in the country report .

The main achievements towards this PDO are:

113.    A significant increase in enrollment in mandatory regimes of health insurance, both in the
subsidized and contributory regimes. By Project closing, the number of enrollees had reached
around 3.4 million, of which over 1.35 million were enrolled in the RS (up from a total of 70,000
enrollees in 2005).




                                               27
                                                        Expansion of Health Insurance Coverage
                                                           for the poor (Subsidized Regime)
                                                                       2003 - 2008
                                                1,200
      Individuals covered by health insurance




                                                1,000



                                                 800
                    (thousands)




                                                 600



                                                 400



                                                 200



                                                   -




114.     The Project supported the efforts of SENASA to (i) identify the target population and its
dependants; (ii) disseminate the rights and obligations of beneficiaries including strengthening of
specialized units for advocacy in health establishements; and (iii) support for the process and
logistics needed to rapidly provide identification cards to the enrolled population. All of these
efforts will continue to be supported by PARSS II.

115.     To expand rapidly coverage among one of the most vulnerable groups of the population
and the poor the project supported simplification and automatization of birth certificates. Progress
was achieved in the registration of births in 34 hospitals that account for 80% of the births
nationwide The four hospitals that account for 50 percent of all births are still not entering the
information electronically. Only two of the selected hospitals have entered data on all births they
registered. The application has been installed in all of the selected hospitals. This accomplishment
is crucial to achieving greater enrollment of children of parents eligible for the RS.8 A lack of
supervision by the DIES and delays in the installation of the software are responsible for these
disappointing results.

116.    Significant progress has been made in terms of the knowledge of the population enrolled
in the Subsidized Regime of the benefits of the family insurance:

117.   The DIDA was supported by the Project in it's the development and implementation of
advocacy and information campaigns at the community level.



8
 It is important to note that 95 percent of births in the DR are institutional, and therefore the electronic birth certificate
will significantly further the enrollment of the target population in the RS.


                                                                         28
118.   Substantially larger fiscal resources were allocated to the SR, while the those for
SESPAS for health care services grew at a considerably lower rate. This was an achievement in
terms of breaking with "traditional" budgetary allocations. More budgetary resources are
channeled to the regions through SENASA.

119.    Under the leadership of SEEPyD, a multi-year budget for 2010­13 has been prepared and
presented to the ministries. This budget represents a national strategy for development and
comprises two parts: health and social security. The latter covers three areas: enrollment, primary
care, and collective health. The aim is to get the entire target population enrolled by 2013. This is
a first step towards changing the historical budget allocation and traditional financing
arrangements towards prospective payments that can eventually be used to introduce incentives or
performance based financing mechanisms.

PDO IV: Strengthening the capacity of national health sector organizations so they can
fulfill their roles and functions as established in the General Health Law and the Social
Security Law.

120.    Indicators 14, 15, 16 and 17 were designed to measure progress towards this PDO.

The main achievements towards this PDO are:

121.    Strengthening SESPAS' stewardship role and the development of the financial and
administrative capacities. The Project supported the strengthening of DGHA, DIES, the
Directorate of Strategic Development (Dirección de Desarrollo Estratégico or DDEI, formerly
known as UMDI), and the creation of a public information center (Oficina de Acceso a la
Información or OAI). Key to strengthening the leadership and planning roles of SESPAS are the
achievements in the development and use of planning and budgeting tools: multi-annual budgets,
the allocation of budget resources based on results, a system to plan acquisitions and an
investment plan. Some of these tools are already in use.

122.    Design of a monitoring and evaluation system to be used by CERSS to monitor the
progress of the health sector reform. The system had been designed by Project completion but
was not pursued further under the Project.

123.    Strengthening of SENASA's institutional capacity: the Project contributed to the
elaboration of an institutional development master plan for SENASA. It identified the main
weaknesses and proposed ways to overcome them. The Project supported the development and
implementation of internal rules and regulations, with operational manuals for each of the main
departments in SENASA. Manuals for the beneficiaries and providers were developed as well.
SENASA is following the process necessary to get the ISO certification. Three information
modules for its monitoring and evaluation system were developed with Project support, meant to
monitor SENASA beneficiaries cared for in SESPAS facilities.

124.     Institutional strengthening of PROMESE/CAL. With support from the Project,
PROMESE was strengthened as the central venue to acquire medications of good quality at
competitive prices. While PROMESE had not carried out an International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) process to buy medications by Project completion, significant progress had been made in
this area--the norms to carry out ICB had been approved. As they had been completed late in the
Project, there had been no time to carry out an ICB process before completion. Significant
achievements had preceded this step: the approval of the Ley de Compras y Contratación del
Estado in 2006, the Medications Decree (approved by SESPAS in 2006, establishing the norms

                                                 29
regarding imports, exports, registration, etc.). The acquisition process of medicines was also
improved with support from the Project: the process became more transparent and efficient,
which translated into lower prices for medications at PROMESE's pharmacies.

125.     The table below provides the calculations as per the ICR Guidelines' weighting systems
for projects with formally revised objectives.


  Rating            Against Original          Against Revised        Overall    Comments
                         PDOs                     PDOs
  Description       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
  Value                    2                         2
  Weight              13.82%                    86.17%                100%
                 (US$4.07/US$29.44)       (US$25.37/US$29.44)
  Weighted                0.17                       1.7               1.8
  Final Rating             --                        --                 2        Unsatisfactory

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

126.     The Project's overall outcome is considered unsatisfactory based on the unsatisfactory
achievement of almost all of the targets set for the outcome indicators. Though being of high
relevance in the selection of PDOs, the relevance of the original design was low and the Project
was overly designed at restructuring. However, it deserves to be acknowledged for its efforts and
successful support of a wide range of activities of high relevance for the overall progress of the
health sector reform. Nevertheless, strategic planning to channel financing towards those
activities that were geared to meeting the PDOs and achieving the targets agreed upon was poor.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

127.     The contribution of the project to the rapid expansion of SR which constitutes one of the
pillars of the new system of social protection in health provides financial protection for the poor
from ill health income and consumptions shocks and other negative effects to household
consumption and human capital investment. Clearly the government's commitment to the
reform, a context of economic growth are the main causalities but the project played a crucial role
in establishing how to move forward with priorities and permitted to move to the next stages of
the reform that had been stalled for almost five years.

128.     CERSS carried out two studies, one to define a baseline for this indicator and another one
at the end of 2009 to assess the progress made in this area. The study showed the following
results for the RS: (i) targeting to the poor has improved in recent years after the introduction of
the CCT beneficiary identification instrument (also known as SIUBEN); (ii) it has had a positive
impact on the gender gap; (iii) the average age of the Regime's affiliates has increased in the

                                                30
evaluated period and a rise in the adult population enrolled has been observed (from 20.7 percent
to 24.7 percent); (iv) the distribution of the enrolled population follows the distribution of the
population nationally--64.9 percent are urban residents and 53.1 percent live in rural area; (v) the
number of affiliates with a primary education rose with respect to the 2007 level (relative to the
population with a secondary or higher education); (vi) the level of unemployed affiliates has
increased by 14.3 percent with respect to the 2007 levels; and (vii) 89 percent of the affiliated
population knew about the importance of health care interventions (versus 79.8 percent in 2007)
and 80.3 percent knew about the importance of preventive care (medical checkups).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

129.     As mentioned in section 3.2, the Project contributed to the institutional strengthening of
SESPAS, SENASA, and PROMESE by supporting the preparation and implementation of norms,
regulations and protocols; and providing training and support to changes within the implementing
institutions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

130.    The Project provided critical support to the achievement of one of the most strategic an
unintended outcome: the rapid progress made towards the expansion of enrollment in the
Contributory Regime focusing on the formal sector (as opposed to the Subsidized Regime for the
poor in the informal sector). The support of the Project to governments discussions and policy
dialogue made it possible enroll into the contributory system head of households working in the
formal sector and their dependants. By the project closing a total of 2.2 million people were
enrolled into the contributory system which was the other key pillar of expansion of health
insurance coverage to all the population.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

n.a.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

131.     The risk to the development outcome is considered moderate based on the following
factors:

          The country's commitment to the long-term goals of the health sector reform as
          demonstrated by the current enrollment of over 1.4 million beneficiaries in the RS and an
          estimated 2.2 million by the end of CY 2010; investments agreed in APL2 for continuing
          decentralization while introducing results-based financing mechanisms.

          Support by the Bank and other multilateral and international organizations of the
          government's multisectorial approach linking demand-side interventions that foster
          human capital investment (like the CCT program Solidaridad) through several
          instruments of investment lending, policy development lending, etc.; Development of the
          first multisectorial 4-year development plan (Plan Plurianual del Sector Público 2010­



                                                 31
        13), which includes clear goals, targets, and indicators for social protection in health, and
        is to be financed through public sector investments and annual budgets.

132.    The risks derive from the need for political commitment to tackle certain aspects of the
reform, such as the enhancement of human resources. In order to reach the development
objectives, such as the full licensing of UAPs across the country, the UAPs have to be staffed
with graduated doctors (with exequatur) to be in full compliance with the law.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

133.    The Bank collaborated closely with the Borrower in the preparation of the Project within
the framework of the implementation of the Provincial Health Project. The Bank engaged the
Borrower's team participation proactively in every stage of the preparation process, including
QAG meetings during the internal quality at entry review. Performance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory because: (i) the selection of the PDOs for the Project and the key outcome
indicators were more appropriate for the APL than for its first stage (APL1). They were valid
long-term objectives, be it more in line with the 10-year APL program, but could not be achieved
by the Project within its intended timeframe; (ii) inadequate organizational arrangements that
included four implementing units and a lack of details on how the various public sector agencies
would be involved and what their responsibilities would be.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

134.     There were three task managers over time for this Project and transitions from one TM to
the next went smoothly, with a good degree of continuity. The task manager who led the
restructuring was part of the original preparatory team. From the start of Project implementation,
once the Project had become effective, the Bank adopted a highly proactive and flexible approach
to restructuring the Project to meet the actual needs and support multi-sectorial efforts to reduce
poverty through an expanded social protection system. However, after the Mid-Term Review, the
supervision changed its focus to processes and after midterm review targets of PDOs were not
lowered to more realistic levels. This was, in part because of the need to provide advice and
support to the Government and the PCU, which faced multiple challenges trying to implement a
vast array of activities, and ensuring adequate coordination with multiple agencies and
stakeholders in each of the agencies and finally the upcoming presidential elections that made
difficult to get decision makers to focus on discussion of such important changes.

135.     Introducing extensive civil works activities can be risky and supervision is highly
demanding and time-consuming; the team had to deal with multiple demands and did not had
from beginning of project implementation an expanded team with different and complementary
skills in order to tackle in a more comprehensive way the multifaceted areas of the ambitious
operational and procurement plans. Proactive supervision helped identify fiduciary problems and
develop remedy and mitigating risk plans. During the last 15 months of implementation

                                                32
strengthening the supervision team with new consultants who had the necessary training and
skills help to strengthen supervision and proactively identify and seek solutions to the many
issues and problems that had arisen from the PCU's implementation weaknesses regarding civil
works was a positive development.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

136.     Before effectiveness: The Bank carried out frequent and well-staffed missions to support
the Borrower with the implementation of the Project. During the first year after approval, it
concentrated its efforts on supporting the government in getting the Project approved by Congress.
Once the Project had been approved, the Bank team worked closely with the new government to
restructure the Project to align its objectives and activities with the government's vision of the
health reform.

137.    After effectiveness: The Bank team fostered a lengthy but truly participatory process,
engaging key stakeholders and key decision-makers, to ensure that the Project would become an
instrument to build consensus on how to move forward the stalled process of health sector reform.
It took more than a year to get the Project countersigned, but it was very helpful to assess what
the key bottlenecks of the reform process were; and to take stock of the main strengths and
building upon them (to develop a strategic path with a mid-term action plan that identified short-
and medium-term priorities while keeping in line with the long-term sector goals).

138.    One weakness in the first stages of Project implementation was the supervision of the
civil works. The Bank fostered south-south support with individuals from a health project from
Mexico, which provided a valuable exchange of ideas regarding how to develop an infrastructure
plan within the framework of a new accreditation system. However, the skills needed to
continuously monitor and evaluate the planning and progress of civil works were just not
available. In the last 15 months, the Bank did add an expert consultant to the supervision team but,
by then, much time and implementation efficiency regarding civil works had been lost. The Bank
focused on assessing major implementation risks and providing technical assistance on numerous
civil works project implementation challenges that emerged from the PCU's weaknesses in
planning, bidding, and supervising civil works (a summary of the final report from the civil works
consultant is included in Annex 11).

139.     The other important weakness identified in the supervision relates to the balance needed
throughout project implementation among different supervision approaches. Specifically, the
balance between enabling the borrower with tools for strategic planning and proactively
providing advice on monitoring progress towards agreed targets and indicators on the one hand
and identifying the need to adjust targets on the other hand. The Project clearly was instrumental
in overcoming key health sector reform bottlenecks and the progress made in the implementation
of activities was measured periodically as agreed. However, reaching the agreed indicators and
targets would have required a considerably higher pace of progress overall in the implementation
of activities; this is particularly true for those activities related to the supply side and
strengthening of the stewardship functions. Furthermore, after the Mid-Term Review, a
discussion on the targets and indicators was only reactivated once baseline data and data on
progress made had become part of the preparatory meetings for the APL2.

140.    In the last 15 months of Project implementation, the onset of the global crisis and its
negative impact on fiscal revenues forced the government to focus on an accelerated preparation

                                                33
of the second loan of the APL, building on the lessons learned and focusing on results-based
financing (rather than on a potentially lengthy, new restructuring process that would have
consumed more time and resources for an amendment that probably would have been signed only
a few months before closing the Project). The possibility of actually preparing the APL2 with a
focus on results-based financing was possible thanks to the ground prepared by APL1, its outputs,
and intermediate outcomes. However, those achievements fell short of the ambitious targets and
indicators chosen during the first-order restructuring.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

141.     The government's performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The government was
committed to health sector reform over the long term and worked closely with the Bank to
prepare the Project and, at a later stage, restructure it. Changes in administration, the economic
and financial context, and the complexity of the issues involved in health reform sometimes
resulted in delays in key decision making (human resource reform, for instance). The government
sought and seized the opportunities generated during Project restructuring and implementation to
overcome some of the key bottlenecks that had stalled progress on the implementation of health
sector reform laws.

142.    The main reasons for the moderately unsatisfactory rating are: (i) the delay to get the
Project approved in a timely manner; (ii) the lack of political will to implement certain aspects of
the reform that are considered critical to reaching the PDOs; and, (ii) changes in administration
increased difficulties in taking key decisions that involved political economy considerations. This
was the case with the human resource reform, which was not addressed in a timely manner to
contribute to achieve the changes sought with support from the Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

143.      The performance of the PCU was uneven across time and across areas of Project
implementation. Major points of weakness were: (i) the poor management and supervision of the
civil works activities from the start and over a long period during the life of the Project, which
caused unnecessary inefficiencies in Project implementation; (ii) weaknesses in the timely use of
monitoring data for strategic decision making, particularly regarding updates of operational plans;
(iii) the inability to sustain improvements in procurement and seek timely advice from the Bank
before rushing to take decisions, yielding to the pressure of a large number of activities waiting to
be implemented.

144.     Regarding the other participating entities, the initial impetus for coordinated action and
collaboration with the PCU lost steam after the mid-term review. Only after the administration's
second term had started and staff had changed at the PCU and some of the other agencies, a
renewed interest in a more hands-on approach to Project implementation emerged among some of
the participating entities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


                                                 34
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

145.    Key aspects of the Borrower's performance:

    -   Borrower's commitment to the health sector reform with adequate allocation of resources
        not only as counterpart funding but for expanding SR;
    -   Successful close collaboration among public agencies to implement midterm agenda to
        leapfrog health sector reform ;
    -   Proactively developing and implementing an strategic approach to foster collaboration
        among public sector agencies and development partners
    -   Carrying out a broad participatory and consensus building process aimed at reaching
        identifying a critical path for re-launching the reform;
    -   Delays in approving the Project and achievement of effectiveness ;
    -   Weaknesses in the planning, selection and management of procurement and civil works
        activities.

6. Lessons Learned

Project design, restructuring and amendments

146.     Need to better assess the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies at the
design stage. The PAD was not realistic when assessing the capacity of the several institutions
involved in the implementation. As a result, even though the Project took 18 months to become
effective, when the time arrived, the inter-institutional agreements had not been signed. This was
a difficulty that delayed the smooth start of implementation. More emphasis should be placed on
institutional strengthening as a crucial component of health reform.

147.    Need to be realistic when setting the PDOs' indicators and the targets to measure
the outcomes. While the PDOs were valid and in line with the long-term goals of the reform,
they were too broad and complex to be achieved by the Project during the proposed execution
time. Moreover, the indicators proposed were also influenced by many factors beyond the control
and actions of the Project. This problem was replicated when the Project was restructured. The
indicators and targets selected were again very ambitious and influenced by factors outside the
control of the implementing agencies. It would be advisable to limit the scope of achievements
and targets to the Project description and base the selection of indicators and targets on this. On
the other hand, in the case of this Project, the indicators selected did not show some of the
progress that had been achieved. This was particularly the case of the civil works activities: the
indicators do not show the progress achieved towards closing the infrastructure gap.

Implementation

148.    When reforms are complex, it is crucial to foster consensus building and the
engagement of different key actors. The Bank and the Borrower tried to do this by organizing
workshops along the restructuring process. Later on, the financial component of the restructured
Project served to distribute the work among the key institutional actors in the health sector. The
Project design included a component on financing, which is unusual. It served to gather all actors
from different institutions (SESPAS, SENASA, CERSS, SEEPyD) and have them reach
consensus on the budget for the health sector in 2007 for the first time. This has continued as a
working practice and has served to formulate a multi-year development plan with clear and
measurable goals and development objectives.


                                                35
149.     If a project supports complex reforms, it is very important to carefully select the
activities to be financed by the project. The design and implementation of APL1 suggests that
the momentum generated either by adopting a new legal framework or by accommodating an
incoming administration tends to foster an overly optimistic environment, in which the actual
possibilities for achieving goals in the short and medium term are overestimated. The momentum
may be very conducive to setting ambitious, long-term goals and securing political commitments
but, if the borrower does not make a clear distinction between the long-term reform goals and
what a small loan can achieve, overly ambitious objectives and targets for an investment program
may be included in project design, without an appropriate evaluation of the risks involved.
Alternatively, the measurement of targets that require very complex and costly studies may be
more suitable for an evaluation analysis where a new policy is introduced than for PDO indicators.
Targets that can be measured periodically should be closely monitored to determine whether they
need to be adjusted, especially if a clear trend of lack of progress towards PDO indicator targets
emerges.

150.     If it is decided that an investment loan will include civil works, it is critical to ensure
from the earliest stages on that both the Bank and the implementing units have sufficient,
adequately staffed teams with the right mix of skills. The problems faced in the implementation
of the civil works financed by the Project highlight the importance of having the right teams both
as part of the PCU and as part of the Bank supervision teams.

151.    The early stages are the most critical and investing in adequate needs assessment, a sound
technical evaluation, and appropriate development of blueprints can minimize the risks of serious
technical errors and inefficient implementation of these types of activities. It is very important to
ensure that direct beneficiaries--such as the staff of health care units or the management of
public sector agencies--are involved in every step of the process, from the earliest plans to the
development of blueprints as well as the beginning, completion, and reception of civil works. It is
likewise important that all decisions made be well-documented and not merely translated in
verbal agreements.

152.    Moreover, the supervision of procurement processes of civil works in the health sector is
highly complex due to various special circumstances arising from the geographic dispersion of
health care units and the wide range of types of works (from simple refurbishments in numerous
but scattered health centers to highly specialized infrastructure projects such as hospitals and
pharmaceutical warehouses). Therefore, the bidding, planning, and implementation processes
require experienced teams that can take into account the realities of the health sector civil works
and of the market. Price considerations may require an analysis of past experiences with public
bidding to avoid dealing with local firms that may offer lower-than-market prices but later prove
unable to deliver, leading to lengthy processes for the cancellation of contracts and/or costly
investments to repair and preserve investments already made.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers.
N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



                                                 36
                             Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

  (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Restructured  Actual/Latest
                              Appraisal Estimate                                                        Percentage of
         Components                                    Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                                                          Appraisal
                                                    (USD millions)    millions)
                                                   IBRD Borrower IBRD Borrower

HEALTH SERVICES
                                           25.97                    n.a            1.49          0.58
COVERAGE EXTENSION
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                         7.20                   n.a            1.50          1.14
LEGISLATION
IMPROVING SELECTED
ESSENTIAL PUBLIC HEALTH
FUNCTIONS TO PROMOTE                         2.66                   n.a            0.75          0.39
AND PROTECT THE HEALTH
OF THE POPULATION
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                  n.a.
AND IMPACT APPRAISAL OF                      6.58                                  2.46           1.4
NEXT PHASES
Improve access of the poor to
quality services included in the             0.00           15.60          3.92   13.27
Plan Básico de Salud
Reorganize and strengthen health
                                             0.00            1.20          0.29    1.22
systems in prioritized regions
Improve the planning and
                                                                                   1.01
management of the Subsidized                 0.00            1.30          0.32
Regimen
Strengthen the capacity of
national health sector                       0.00            6.10          1.53    8.66
organizations


            Total Project Costs            42.41            24.20          6.06 29.27          9.57

Front-end fee IBRD                          0.30             0.00                       0.30
     Total Financing Required              42.71            24.20          6.06

  The total project cost was estimated at US$39.1 million; US$38.7 was the total project cost after
  restructuring, US$0.4 was the front-end fee, US$24.20 million was the cost of the new
  components and the difference was the amount already implemented: US$4.07 million.




                                                    37
(b) Financing
                                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of           Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                               Cofinancing          (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                                   millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                            12.71        9.09        71.5
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                      30.00             29.27             97.5
and Development
Note: At restructuring, the Borrower contribution was lowered to US$9.1 million and the total Project cost to US$39.1
million. A total of US$555,404.92 was cancelled as a result of misprocurement.




                                                         38
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outcomes, Intermediate Results and Outputs after restructuring
Component I          Specific Objective: In PRPs, public primary and first-line secondary health facilities
PDO: Improve         meet the criteria for accreditation with MoH
access of the poor
to quality health    The RHS have a Master Plan for Infrastructure and Equipment
services in
prioritized areas    Main results and outputs

                              Diagnostic of the infrastructure needs for the prioritized regions (III, IV,V
                              and VI);
                              Acquisition of equipment for the first level of care in the prioritized regions;
                              Revision and improvement of the instruments to assess the infrastructure and
                              equipment needs for the first level of care;
                              Rehabilitation of 162 health facilities in Regions 0 (Office of Sectoral
                              Analysis in SESPAS), II (Construction of the medicine warehouse for
                              PROMESE/CAL in Santiago de los Caballeros; III (primary health care
                              centers, rural clinics and the RHS office in San Pedro de Macoris, medical
                              residences in hospital Jaime Mota

                     The MoH has an accreditation system that guarantees minimum quality standards
                     for the national health system.

                     Main results and outputs related

                              Strengthening of the DGHA in the MoH
                              Acquisition of furniture and equipment for the DGHA;
                              Elaboration of norms for accreditation of health care centers;
                              Elaboration of manuals (Manual de Inspección y Habilitación) and
                              formularies;
                              Design and implementation of an application and information system;
                              Elaboration of an inspection and supervision plan for the health care centers
                              in the prioritized regions.
                              The DGHA is carrying out the inspection of the health care centers in the
                              prioritized regions and there is a process of self evaluation by the Regional
                              Health Services.

                     Specific Objective: In PRPs, improve the access of the poor enrolled in the
                     Subsidized Regime to essential drugs included in the Basic Health Plan.

                     The RHS have a system for planning, provision and rational use of medicines.
                     Main results and outputs :

                              Evaluation of the availability of drugs in the primary health care units and
                              Elaboration of a baseline;
                              Training of personnel in training of personnel on its use; training of
                              personnel in the "farmacias ambulatorias" on basic concepts on
                              pharmaceutical work;
                              Design and use of the single prescription document (receta unica) and
                              training of personnel in its use;
                              Design, printing and distribution of the pharmaceutical and therapeutical
                              guides;

                                                    39
         Workshops to create the pharmaceutical and therapeutical commissions at
         regional level

PROMESE/CAL has a system to manage medicines and medical input satisfactory
to meet the demand of the Subsidized Regime.
Main results and outputs:

         Strengthening of the Dirección General de Medicamentos in MoH;
         Strengthening the institutional capacity of PROMESE/CAL:
         Construction of a new medicine warehouse in Santiago de los Caballeros;
         Acquisitions of vehicles for the regional distribution network; improvements
         in the Farmacias del Pueblo;
         Definition of the mechanisms to distribute medicines in the Regional Health
         Services;
         Creation of a thematic group on medicines;

PROMESE/CAL has improved its capacity to acquire drugs through ICB.
Main results and outputs:

         Training of personnel on the acquisition methods of medicines;
         Revision of the procedures for procurement of medicines, according to
         international standards;

Specific objective: In PRPs improve the quality of the services provided in primary
and first-line secondary facilities included in the Basic Health Plan.

Intermediate result: the RHS use guides and protocols to deliver care for pregnant
women and children under one year of age.
Main results and outputs:

         Printing of guides for monitoring the care and evaluation of the care for
         pregnant women and children under one year of age;
         Training of personnel in monitoring and evaluation of the services provided
         for these groups;
         Design of a monitoring system to follow up the use of the content of the
         guides;
         Printing of the guidelines for prescription of medicines at the primary level
         of care;
         Printing of 1,000 guide books and 300 sets of flip charts for health workers
         (promotores de salud); 5,000 guidebooks for diagnosis and treatment; 3000
         copies of the organizational manual for the UNAPS; 3,000 copies of
         operation manuals of the UNAP's;
         Training of personnel in the primary health care units on the content of these
         guides.

Specific Objective: In the PRPs, contract hospital executives is based on competitive
procedures
     Support for Development of regulatory and legal frameworks (Ley de
         Carrera Sanitaria)

Specific Objective: In the PRPs, management of hospital based on financial and
performance management systems.

The RHS have a system to evaluate the performance of second level hospitals


                               40
                               Design of the automated system for the family health card (Ficha Familiar de
                               Salud);
                               Acquisition of equipment for connectivity.

 Component II         Specific objective: In the PRs, the Regional Health Services operate an integrated
PDO: Reorganize       financial management system that permits entering into service contracts.
and strengthen
health systems in     The RHS have an administrative and financial system that allows accountability (in
prioritized regions   accordance with the SIGEF)
to comply with the    Main results and outputs:
roles and
functions as                   Proposals for tools for an administrative and financial system in the SRS,
established in the             among these: a proposal for a single budget and manual for its use and
general health and             management the single budget, containing the budget structure and a guide
social security                to train personnel of its management as well as the draft text for the
laws                           regulation;
                               Development of models for data bases and a web-site to manage the
                               administrative and financial system;
                               Redesign of the procedures and instruments for the administrative-financial
                               area;
                               Development of a monitoring system for the administrative-financial system;
                               Personnel trained in the SRS;
                               Elaboration of catalogues of services and service providers and criteria for
                               their classification.

                      The RHS have a Management Information System that allows decision making and
                      accountability towards SENASA, the MoH and beneficiaries.
                      Main results and outputs:

                          Design of the set of norms and regulations necessary for the organization and
                          functioning of Regional Health Services. A total of 29 products were designed
                          by the Escuela Andaluza de Salud Publica. Some of them were the following:

                              Proposal of a draft legal text to create the National Health Service; draft legal
                              text for the Functional and Territorial Decentralization of the Public Health
                              Services;
                           Draft proposals for texts on the "Cuadros de Mandos (Organizational
                              Framework) for the Regional Health Services", "Compendium of Basic
                              Clinical Documentation" and "Conjunto Minimo de Datos de Alta
                              Hospitalaria" ;
                           Draft decree establishing the Strategic Plan for the functional
                              decentralization of the provision of health services (Plan Estratégico para la
                              descentralización funcional de la provisión de Servicios de atención a las
                              personas);
                           Proposal for the Management Agreements between the SESPAS and SRS,
                              including the different administrative levels within the SRS and with the
                              hospitals. These agreements were used as a model for the final agreements
                              reached by SESPAS with Regions VI and VIII;
                           Regulation for the reference price of essential drugs and supplies of
                              PROMESE/CAL; Operations Manual for public pharmacies (Farmacias del
                              Pueblo and the Red de Botiquines of the UNAP's kits rural), organizational
                              manual for the prescription system;
                      Signing of the Framework agreement for the management agreements between the
                      RHSs, SENASA and the MoH, which involved an agreement between SENASA and

                                                     41
                     the MoH and agreements between SENASA and Regions VI and VIII.
Component III        Specific objective: Increase the budget for health care delivery transferred to the PRs
PDO: Develop a       through SENASA.
multi-annual         The Subsidized regime has a multi-annual investment and financing plan.
financing plan for   Main results and outputs:
the subsidized            Creation of an inter-institutional group (MoH, SENASA, PROMESE/CAL,
regime, ensure the            SEEyP) to reach consensus on enrollment on the Subsidized Regime.
effective                 Institutional coordination to elaborate the 2007 budget for the health sector;
enrollment of the         Multi-year budget for 2010-2013 agreed upon, led by the SEEyP;
poor and improve
their knowledge of   Prioritized public hospitals have an electronic system to generate birth certificates,
entitlement          installed and data in the system; Delegaciones de Oficialias Civiles (offices of the
                     civil registry) in public hospitals have an automated civil registry system.
                     Main results and outputs:

                              Elaboration of a baseline of the situation of the information system on vital
                              statistics in the prioritized hospitals;
                              Support the development of the Information System of Vital Statistics
                              through: (a) implementation of Birth Information System (SINAC); (b)
                              provision of computers and networks in prioritized centers and in DPS in
                              prioritized areas to manage the information modules on births and deaths; (c)
                              preparation of an operational manual on birth information; and (d) updating
                              the format of the live birth certificate. Regarding information on deaths, the
                              following products were prepared: (i) an operational manual on management
                              of information on deaths, (ii) design of a software application and user
                              manual of the new death certificate; (iii) printing of the guide to fill up
                              regular death and fetal death certificates, and (iv) training of regional staff on
                              management of information on vital events;
                              Rehabilitation of 19 offices of the Central Electoral Board and provision of
                              furniture and equipment in 24 hospitals out of the 34 where 80% of total
                              births occur;
                              Training workshops for personnel of different institutions working with the
                              MoH birth certificates;

                     SENASA has a system of enrollment which guarantees that all eligible people can
                     fulfill the requirements to get enrolled
                     Main results and outputs
                     s
                           Support for DIDA by financing workshops and printing materials for the
                               implementation of an educational information campaign strategy on the
                               rights and benefits of the Basic Health Plan for those enrolled in RS as well
                               as potential enrollees;
                           Support for the issuance and distribution of cards (carnetización) for 426.821
                               new affiliates and taking 169.089 pictures for new enrollees in the Family
                               Health Insurance subsidized regime.
                           Consultancy to enable birth registrations and issuance of identity documents
                               to allow the enrollment of 2.515 people (dependent beneficiaries) in the
                               subsidized regime;
                           Consultancy to design a methodology for the evaluation, monitoring and
                               indexing of the cost of the Basic Health Plan used by SISALRIL;
                           Support for the logistics to carry out the field work for the distribution of
                               cards and for the identification and enrollment of families in the subsidized
                               regime.




                                                     42
Component IV         Specific objective: MoH monitors and evaluates the performance of the health sector
PDO: Strengthen      and disseminates results annually.
the capacity of
public               MoH has improved its institutional capacity to carry out its stewardship function.
organizations to     Main results and outputs:
comply with its
new roles and                Strengthening the Department of Accreditation (DGHA) (see Component I);
functions as                 Provision of furniture and computer equipment to the Directorate of Health
established in the           Informatics and Statistics (DIES), the Unit of Sector Analysis and Unit for
general health               National Health Accounts; and provision of hardware, software and related
and social                   services for the Office of Access to Information in SESPAS.
security laws.
                             Support provided to approve the norm to regulate the management of waste
                             generated by the health centers (Reglamento sobre Deshechos y Residuos
                             Generados for Centros de Salud y Establecimientos Afines), approved by the
                             government by decree No. 126-09 of February 20, 2009;
                             Workshops for the formulation and dissemination of the Ten-Year Health
                             Plan 2006-2015;
                             Consultancy for the Institutional Strengthening and Restructuring of the
                             Administrative and Financial System of SESPAS: this supported the
                             development and implementation of new operational procedures for the
                             Administrative and Financial Area, the Purchasing and Contracting
                             Department and the Office of Access to Information (OAI); elaboration of a
                             proposal for a new filing system and management of correspondence for the
                             OAI; the development of planning and budgeting tools. Thanks to these new
                             manuals and procedures, an improved system for managing procurement and
                             contracting of goods started to be implemented, and competitive biding has
                             been used to acquire office and medical supplies;
                             Strengthening of the Office of Access to Information (OAI): upgrading of its
                             physical space; provision of furniture and computer equipment, training of
                             personnel within and outside the country;
                             Design of the website for SESPAS;
                             Design for the system to monitor the performance of the health system,
                             through consulting and workshops;
                             Development of the draft law to reform human resource policies in health
                             (Ley de Carrera Sanitaria), financing of consultants and workshops;
                             Strengthening of the Modernization Unit (UMDI) in SESPAS, which is at
                             present the Directorate for Strategic Development (DDEI) through the
                             provision of furniture and equipment;
                             Strengthening of the OAI with acquisition of furniture and equipment,
                             training of its personnel, design of a system of authorizations (Sistema de
                             autorizaciones Sanitarias) under a single point (Modalidad de Ventanilla
                             Unica) in SESPAS.
                             Training of personnel at national and International level.

                             Intermediate result: SENASA has improved its capacity to administer health
                             risks. Main activities:
                             Institutional development plan (Plan Maestro de Desarrollo Institucional) for
                             SENASA developed, identifying priorities for institutional development
                             weaknesses, gaps and a strategic path to implement the changes;
                             Acquisition of Hardware and Software as well as the installation of software


                                                   43
        in health centers in Regions III y IV to allow the timely reporting of data to
        SENASA on the enrolled population;
        Development of three modules of the information system to monitor those
        users of SENASA cared for in SESPAS facilities;
        Training of technical personnel in the country and abroad.

        Intermediate result: CERSS has improved its rol as a coordinator of the
        health reform process.
        Acquisition of Computers for the PCU;
        Improvement of the Management of documents: redesign of the data base,
        migration to Electronic files of documents and availability on the web,
        preparation of summaries of key studies for its dissemination.
     Upgrade of the facilities of the information center (Centro de
        Documentación de la CERSS), provision of furniture and equipment; By
        project completion, there was the Centro de Contacto Gubernamental, a web
        page, a virtual library on health reform, an on-line training center, a center
        for documents with more than 7,000 documents, individual cabins with
        Computers and Internet access for consultation.
     Provision of technical and financial resource to carry out the Encuesta
        Demográfica y de Salud;
     Design of the system to monitor the progress of the health sector reform;
        Support other participating institutions by supporting the training of their
        staff Workshops on results based Management, monitoring and evaluation of
        social programs, Management of health insurance, to train staff of other
        participating institutions.
Strengthening of MEPyD
     Acquisition of Hardware and Software;
     Training staff on financial management, in the context of the formulation
        and monitoring of social policies with emphasis on social protection
        specifically in health.




                              44
      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                        45
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                    Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Patricio Márquez              Task Team Leader                       LCSHD
Christoph Kurowski            YP/Health Specialist                   LCSHD
Marta Ospina                  Procurement Analyst                    LCSHD
Maria Colchao                 Program Assistant                      LCSHD
Juan Carlos Alvarez           Legal Counsel                          LEGLA
Patricia de la Fuente-Hoyes   Financial Management Specialist        LOCA
Guido Paolucci                Senior Procurement Specialist
Joseph Paul Formoso           Senior Finance Officer                 LOCA
Cecilia Balchun               Financial Analyst
                              Consultant, Institutional
Robert Crown
                              Development and Operations
Oscar Echeverri               Consultant, Public Health Specialist   LCSHD
                              Consultant, Health Management
Alberto Gonima
                              and Information Systems Specialist
                                                                     LCSHD
Aracelly Woodall              Financial/Cost Specialist              LSCHD
Evelyn Pesantes               Institutional Development Specialist
Willy de Geyndt               Institutional Development Specialist
Catherine Abreu-Rojas         Operations Specialist                  LCC3C
Massimiliano Paolucci         DR Country Officer                     LCC3C
Marco Mantovanelli            Country Manager                        LCC3C
William Experton              Sector Leader                          LCC3C
Martha Vargas                 Team Assistant                         LCSHH

Supervision/ICR
Zoila Catherine Abreu Rojas Procurement Specialist                   LCSPT
Fabiola Altimari Montiel    Sr. Counsel                              LEGLA
Cecilia Maria Balchun       Consultant                               CTRDM
                            Procurement Specialist
Carmen Brinckhaus                                                    CTRDM
                            Consultant
Samuel C. Carlson           Lead Specialist                          SASED
Mary A. Dowling             Language Program Assistant               LCSHE
Leanne Farrell              Junior Professional Associate            LCSSA
Patricia De la Fuente Hoyes Senior Finance Officer                   CTRFC
C. Izquierdo-González       Finance Assistant                        CTRDM
Verónica Yolanda Jarrin     Senior Program Assistant                 LCSHH
                            Sr. Financial Management
Svetlana V. Klimenko                                                 LCSFM
                            Specialist
Christoph Kurowski          Sector Leader                            LCSHD

                                              46
Claudia Macias               Operations Officer                 LCSHH
Natalia Moncada              Program Assistant                  LCSHH
Fernando Montenegro Torres Sr. Economist (Health)               LCSHH
                             Sr. Financial Management
Xiomara A. Morel                                                LCSFM
                             Specialist
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT
Gunars H. Platais            Sr. Environmental Econ.           LCSEN
Gustavo Castro F. Raposo     Financial Analyst                 CTRDM
Maritza A. Rodriguez De
                             Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
Pichardo
                             Health Specialist
 Rocío Schmunis                                                 LCSHH
                             ET Consultant
Geraldine Beneitez           ET Temporary                       LCSHD
Julie B. Nannucci            Language Program Assistant         LCSHD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                            0.13                      2.92
  FY03                                           13.45                    115.06
                            Total:               13.58                    117.98
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                            3.61                     24.95
  FY05                                           17.40                     64.48
  FY06                                           31.28                    112.33
  FY07                                           30.11                    101.75
  FY08                                           17.74                     68.48
  FY09                                         19.69                      111.04
  FY10                                         20.79                       89.60
                            Total:            140.62                      808.59




                                            47
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                        48
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON ICR

We understand that overall the Completion Report focuses on assessing the degree to which the
targets set for the Performance Indicators and Project Development Objectives have been met.

As we discussed on several occasions through the dialogue of the Bank with the current
management team of the PCU, our review of the attainment of the targets set for the Project prior
to and after the Project's restructuring has confirmed that substantial errors were made both in the
design and restructuring phase of the Project, mainly related to the nature and scope of the Project
indicators and targets. Basically, the planned indicators and targets spanned results that were
linked to external factors of a national nature that depended on institutional actions lying outside
the Project's scope. Thus, these indicators measured the degree of progress attained with the
health sector reform process rather than the Project's contribution to the reform process.

The draft ICR deems the Bank's performance in the Project's design and implementation
moderately unsatisfactory. We understand that the factors mentioned above may have adversely
affected this performance rating, mainly because of the Bank's participation in the
aforementioned design and restructuring of the Project and, more specifically, the definition of
the indicators.

As to the financial-administrative and procurement aspects, we understand that they remained
within parameters that were deemed satisfactory by the country and in view of the progress made
with institutional capacity; in this context, the progress made in the framework of the National
Plan for the Strengthening of the Public Institutions, that the Government of the Dominican
Republic has embarked on.

As far as the operations go, the performance of both the Bank and the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU) should be improved to ensure that the implementation is in line with the Bank's norms and
procedures, but also that the planned time periods are met in form and substance. The problems
deriving from the Bank's late replies to no-objection requests for technical and procurement
matters need to be addressed in future operations, such as the PARSS2, which is already in the
implementation stage.

We would like to highlight that during the drafting of the ICR we tried to ensure that the
document would capture the Project's real contribution to the health sector reform process, in a
way that would make visible the progress that has been made as a result of the Project's
implementation, even though it may not necessarily have resulted in the achievement of the
targets set for the performance indicators. In fact, the Project did contribute to the attainment of
Intermediate Indicators ­ sometimes in full ­ and, nonetheless, the failure to take some decisions
at the national level and/or external factors outside the scope of the Project are ultimately
responsible for the failure to reach the targets set for most of the PDO Indicators.

Among the key accomplishments attained by the country through the direct support of the Project
are the contribution to the National Health Insurance (SENASA) in the form of the distribution of
ID cards to new members of the subsidized regime and the capture of their dependents as well as
the institutional strengthening of said organization; the opening of civil registry offices at public
hospitals; the design of the norms and dispositions needed for the organization and functioning of
the Regional Health Services, a total of 29 products; the support provided to the Ministry of

                                                 49
Health in the inspection of public and private health facilities, in the refurbishing of primary and
secondary health care facilities, in the formulation and distribution of the 10-Year Health Plan,
and in the redesign of administrative and financial procedures to ensure the public's access to
information, as a mechanism for transparency and accountability vis-à-vis the population. All of
the above illustrate the Project's contribution to the reform process.

The Project activities have led to the strengthening of the management and regulation functions
and, consequently, to an improved stewardship capacity of the Ministry of Health, the
strengthening of the regional health services' administrative management, the improvement of
SENASA's management capacity and of PROMESE's (Program of Essential Medicines) capacity
to manage procurement processes.

The Project's restructuring offered an opportunity to realign the Project objectives with initiatives
in the context of the reform process and at the same time identify Project-specific objectives in
the broader context of the health sector reform.

The Project's rate of disbursement is evidence of the substantial improvement made in managing
the Project, as evidenced by a disbursement rate of 50 percent of the total loan amount during the
last year and a half of the implementation. Although efforts were made to close the gap between
actual programmatic results and targets, the shortcomings in the Project's design pointed out
above and the lack of time made these tasks particularly challenging.


SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT'S ICR
Background
The Government of the Dominican Republic (GDR) in 1997 embarked on a process of health
sector reform with the creation of the Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform
(Comisión Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud or CERSS), which was made responsible
for coordinating and supporting the reform process.

In 1998 two projects to support reforms in the health sector were launched: the Provincial Health
Systems Project, financed by the World Bank (WB) and executed by CERSS, whose main
objective was to strengthen the health sector by focusing its actions on the provincial health care
systems. In parallel, a Health Sector Modernization and Restructuring Program was implemented
with support from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).

During the 20002004 administration, the Government and the WB agreed on an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) to support the health sector reform process, to be implemented between
2003 and 2014 for an estimated amount of US$ 126.71 million. The Bank would finance US$90
million and the Government would contribute US$36.71 million. The program (PARSS1) was to
be implemented in three phases over a period of 12 years, each phase lasting 4 years. In June 26,
2003, the GDR and the Bank signed a Loan Agreement for US$30 million to implement the first
phase of the program (PARSS1). The loan became effective 18 months after its approval by the
Bank, due to delays in its ratification by Congress. The closing date was June 30, 2007.

The PDOs were to:

    (a) Contribute to the achievement by 2015 of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
        agreed by the GDR at the Millennium Summit held in September 2000. More specifically,
        the project would focus on three MDGs: reduce child mortality; improve maternal health;

                                                 50
           and contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty (by protecting the poorest against
           financial loss resulting from poor health and disability);

    (b) Support the implementation of the new legal framework for the health sector, particularly
        the institutional strengthening of the Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance
        (Secretaría de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social or SESPAS) in its role as
        steward, the development of insurance mechanisms, and the creation of health service
        networks; and

    (c) Support the development, validation, and dissemination of norms and regulations to
        implement the General Health Law (1942-1901) and the Social Security Law (1987-
        1901).

The project originally consisted of four components:

      1.    Extension of the Coverage of Health Services;
      2.    Legislation of the Health Sector Reform;
      3.    Essential Functions of the Public Health System; and
      4.    Monitoring and Evaluation.

While the implementation of PARSS1 started in January 2005, very few activities were carried
out during the first months.

Restructuring of thePARSS1

When the new administration took office in 2004, the Government and the Bank thoroughly
reviewed the project and identified the following design problems:

      1. The MDGs were very ambitious given the project's time horizon;
      2. The project's design did not adequately take into account the limited capacity of the
         participating entities to implement the project;
      3. The project components and activities did not correspond entirely with the reform
         priorities at that time;
      4. The project's design did not support the administration's priority to harmonize the
         health reform efforts among the different health regions, prioritized by poverty level.

The health sector conditions, the progress made with the reform process, and fiscal constraints, led
the Government and the Bank to carry out an evaluation, which identified the critical points in the
areas of financing, service provision, and stewardship, to help accelerate the pace of the reform
process.

To this end, three national and one international consultant were hired to work with key technical
and other health sector stakeholders in assessing the situation of the health reform at the time. As a
result of this exercise, a critical path for accelerating the pace of reform was elaborated, which
contained key actions for the short- and medium-term. This evaluation process, which began in the
last quarter of 2005 and ended in the second quarter of 2006, was the main input for the
reformulation of the Project. The evaluation resulted in the following studies: "Analysis of the
Progress of the Financing Function in the Context of Health Sector Reform," "Analysis of the
Progress of the Stewardship and Provision of Services Functions in the Context of Reform Health
Sector," and "Analysis of the Obstacles to Development of Financing, Provision of Services and
Stewardship Functions in the Process of Health Sector Reform."

                                                 51
The main challenges identified through the evaluation were:

In the area of financing:

  · Accelerate the pace of expansion of coverage for the poor to the Family Health Insurance
    Plan (Seguro Familiar de Salud or SFS) and ensure the program's financial sustainability;

  · Strengthen the operational mechanisms to ensure efficiency and effectiveness of the health
    services provided under the subsidized regime;

  · Strengthen the coordination of the government agencies involved in the implementation of
    the subsidized regime;

  · Strengthen the participation of civil society in the reform of social protection in health.

In the areas of stewardship and service provision:

The challenges regarding these aspects were derived from the overall goal for the regional health
services and the resulting priority actions were:

  · Redefine and reaffirm the central role of the National Health Council (Consejo Nacional de
    Salud or CNS) and clearly set out the respective areas of expertise of the CNS and the
    National Social Security Council (Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social or CNSS) as well
    as the areas in which they must coordinate their activities.

  · Emphasize activities aimed at enhancing SESPAS leadership role in supervision and control
    as well as its support for the decentralization, de-concentration, and regionalization
    processes;

  · Improve the National Health Care Insurance's (Seguro Nacional de Salud or SENASA)
    systems in the areas of logistics, risk management, control of membership, technical and
    financial risk analysis, costing of service packages and adjustment of capitations.

  · Design and implement the tools and procedures for the Provincial Health Directorates
    (Direcciones Provinciales de Salud or DPS) to be able to assume their new roles;

  · Design and implement the tools for the Regional Health Care Service Centers (Servicios
    Regionales de Salud or SRS) to be able to assume their new roles;

  · Increase the technical and operational capacity of CNSS.

The evaluation also identified priority actions for SESPAS and the SRS by area of
intervention:

  · Strengthen SESPAS' regulatory function by supporting the development of the Dirección
    General de Habilitación;

  · Develop tools and mechanisms that will allow the decisions regarding infrastructure and
    equipment to be based on actual sector needs;


                                                 52
 · Contribute to building regional health networks in the prioritized regions by improving the
   infrastructure and equipment in the SESPAS' health facilities at the primary level of care;

 · Strengthen the management of human resources, focusing on the decentralization towards
   the SRS;

 ·    Strengthen the administrative capacity to support the development of regional health
     networks, including the definition of a model of care, the organization of health services
     within the network, the development and organization of diagnostic support systems, the
     organization of an emergency network and emergency clinics, the design and
     implementation of a program of continuous quality improvement, and the design and
     implementation of a subsystem of information for management and administration;

 · Design and implement a financial and accounting system for the regional health services;

 · Strengthen drug management through the development of complementary legislation a
   standard prescription model, a system to manage prescriptions; a system for medicine
   logistics and medical supplies; and an information subsystem for the management of
   medicines;

 · Develop a model for clinical management for primary health service providers; and

 · Design and implement methodologies for participation and social mobilization.
   As a result of the evaluation, four major objectives were identified to promote a change that
   would put users at the center of public health policies and in turn serve as the basis for the
   construction of a joint working agenda for SESPAS, SENASA, the Essential Drugs
   Program/Logistics Support Center (Programa de Medicamentos Esencial/Central de Apoyo
   Logístico or PROMESE/CAL), CERSS, and the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
   (Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia or STP, at present the SEEPyD) to accelerate the
   reform process and make changes                               to the project's design.

These objectives were:

 · Improve access for the poor to high-quality primary and secondary health services included
   in the Basic Health Plan Family Insurance in the prioritized regions and provinces;

 · Reorganize and strengthen the health systems in the priority regions so they can fulfill the
   roles and functions set forth in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law;

 · Develop a multi-annual plan for the financing of the subsidized regime, ensuring the
   effective membership of the poor and improving their knowledge of their rights as members;

 · Strengthen the capacity of health sector national organizations to fulfill their roles and
   functions as provided in the General Law of Health and Social Security Law.

In July 2006, a framework agreement for inter-institutional cooperation was signed, making this
agenda a reality. The agenda reflected the commitment of all parties involved to accelerate the
process of health sector reform and contained specific results--assigned to each of the
institutions--to be achieved over the medium term. Moreover, the agreement created a working
space that facilitated the definition of objectives and expected results, as agreed by consensus


                                              53
among the institutions involved. Through this process, the trigger indicators and their targets were
also agreed on.

The PARSS1 was restructured to reflect a results-based management approach. For each PDO,
objectives and expected results were defined, as well as the activities to be carried out, thereby
establishing three levels of objectives that formed a chain of results. The completion of a set of
activities would lead to the achievement of an expected result. Several expected results
contributed to the achievement of a second-level objective and reaching several second-level
objectives would mean achieving a development objective. The chain of results was not linear,
and different expected results were inter-related while not all corresponded to the same second-
level objective. Specific indicators were identified and some of them measured the achievement
of more than one third-level result.

The responsibility for achieving the expected results was distributed among the institutions. It
was clear at this point that the activities carried out by each of the institutions would have
repercussions, positive or negative, on the activities and achievements of all other participating
institutions.

As part of the restructuring, the Operational Manual was revised and adapted to reflect the new
requirements of the project. The revised manual incorporated a Plan for Management of
Environmental Risk and Labor Safety and the general guidelines for the project's monitoring and
evaluation.

The PARSS1 institutional structure consisted of the Project Coordination Unit, located in the
CERSS, and three Project Implementation Units (PIU), in SESPAS, PROMESE, and SENASA
respectively. The latter three teams were established as coordinating bodies for the PARSS1. The
responsibility for financial management and procurement remained with CERSS.
In order to better manage the project, thematic groups were created. These interagency working
groups were composed of personnel from the participating institutions and served as coordinated
working spaces for the formulation, implementation, and monitoring of PARSS1 activities, in
accordance with the results expected in each project component. Groups were formed on
Empowerment, Organizational Development, Infrastructure, Finance, Human Resources, Health
Networks, and Drug Administration. These thematic groups failed to consolidate and worked
effectively for a short period of time only.

The relationship between the teams could be presented schematically as follows:




                   Coordinating
                      Team                            Thematic Groups

         Technical Group
         PARSS



                                                54
A monitoring plan for the project was prepared, which included objectives, activities, information
flows, a set of indicators, the structure of reports, monitoring forms, and strategies to promote the
use of information.


Main Problems Affecting the Implementation

These were the following:

The restructuring process absorbed a full year of the life of the project;
    Many of the results sought could just not be reached because they were outside the project's
    reach;
    The achievement of certain outcomes depended upon political decisions that were beyond the
    control of the project implementation team;
    Many of the project's indicators could not be realistically attained in the time frame of the life
    of the project;
    Most of the indicators' targets were too ambitious; moreover, it was anticipated that the
    indicators would only be measured at the end of the implementation period, rather than at
    regular intervals--providing timely information on the extent to which targets had been met
    up to that point;
    The project did not include any activities to create awareness at the political level of the
    importance of taking key decisions and adopting certain measures to achieve the PDOs;
    There was over-planning of the activities to be implemented under the project (through the
    POAs, which were impossible to implement);
    The institutions responsible for project implementation actually undertook some activities
    that were not directly related to the achievement of the outcomes agreed under the project;
    The implementing units did not exert the leadership role that had been expected;
    The PCU in CERSS faced restrictions to sustain the functioning of some of the mechanisms
    designed at restructuring with a view to facilitating the coordinated implementation of the
    PARSS1;
    The Procurement Unit was overwhelmed by the volume of activities planned, particularly in
    civil works; The Bank did not respond timely to many of the non-objections presented by the
    Borrower, thereby delaying the procurement processes.


Lessons Learned


    The project objectives and goals must be aligned with the institutional capacity of the
    implementing institutions. The objectives of the PARSS1 were beyond the project's area of
    intervention, actually proving out of reach for the project;
    Good inter-institutional communications is a key factor for the success of a project. Poor
    communication between the PCU and the implementation units in the participating
    institutions was one of the project's main weaknesses;

                                                 55
   The creation of inter-institutional groups is a good strategy to create ownership among the
   technical levels around project activities, to reach consensus on the implementation of
   activities, and to foster their timely execution. The PARSS1 included the creation of thematic
   groups, which worked well during the first year of implementation but languished and were
   even dissolved later on;
   The coordinating team must ensure that the activities included in the POAs are in line with
   the implementation capacity of the participating institutions. The project suffered from over-
   planning of activities, clearly exceeding the capacity of the implementation institutions to
   execute all planned activities before project completion, especially in SESPAS;
   It is critical to identify the risks to a project's implementation and formulate adequate
   measures to address these. The PARSS1 faced many risks that had not been identified early
   in time and, as a result, there was no plan in place to address these;
   Good time management is key to a project's success. The operational plans must be followed
   up and updated regularly and should be shared with all the participating institutions. Many of
   the implementation problems in the PARSS1 were caused by a lack of knowledge (on the part
   of the implementing institutions) of the updated content of the latest POA;
   The procurement team must be trained on the use of the procurement documents in the early
   implementation stages so it can function effectively. In this particular project, despite the
   training provided, the procurement team took a long time to master the use of the relevant
   documents, a factor that delayed the procurement processes.
   A timely and faster response to non-objections by the Bank's procurement team significantly
   improves the efficiency of a project. In the case of the PARSS1, many procurement processes
   were delayed due tot the slow response by the Bank to the request for non-objections;
   The different units in a project should define their financial needs and requirements at the
   beginning of the implementation so that the team responsible for the project's financial
   management is fully aware of them and can duly address them in a timely manner.




                                              56
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Bank Preparation Documents:

       Terms of Reference for the Pre-appraisal mission, Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office
       reports. World Bank.
       Terms of Reference for the Appraisal mission, Aide Memoire and Back-to-Office report.
       World Bank.
       Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 25809-DO. World Bank.
       Quality at Entry Review ­ 2003.
       Loan Agreement, dated June 27, 2003. Loan Number 7185-DO.

Bank and Borrower Project Implementation Documents:

       Aide Memoires for Bank Supervision missions. World Bank.
       Amendment to the Loan Agreement, December 2006.
       Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement, July 2008
       Mid-term Evaluation Power Point Presentation. World Bank.
       Project and Implementation Status Reports (PSRs and ISRs). World Bank.
       Borrower Quarterly Progress Reports. CERSS.
       Project Final Report 2002­2009 (Informe Final del Proyecto). CERSS.
       "Evaluación de la Calidad de la Atención a la Embarazada y al Niño Sano en los
       Centros de Primer Nivel de Atención de las Regiones de Salud II, IV, V y VI de la
       República Dominicana. Resultados de la Segunda Fase." Informe Final. Diciembre 2009.
       CENISMI. CERSS.
       "Informe Final sobre Disponibilidad de Medicamentos del Plan Básico de Salud en las
       Unidades de Dispensación de las Regiones II, IV, V y VI." CERSS. Diciembre 2009.
       "Informe Final: Satisfacción de Afiliados de SENASA del Régimen Subsidiado." Gallup.
       Dominican Republic. July 2009.
       "Avances, Obstáculos y Desafíos de la Reforma del Sistema de Protección Social en
       Salud de la República Dominicana. Función Financiamiento. Informe Final." Maritza
       García. June 2006.




                                            57
Annex 10. Key performance indicators as included in the original PAD

The original PDO were to: (i) contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty by protecting the
poorest against financial loss due to ill health and disability through the enrollment of the target
population in the government health insurance plan and make available and promote the use of
basic health services of high-quality standards. Target population would be people living below
the relative poverty line in regions II, IV, VI, VII, and VIII; and (ii) support the implementation
of the health sector reform legislation that provided the legal, financial, organizational, and
managerial enabling environment to achieve the MDGs related to health.

Annex 1 of the PAD included the following outcome/impact indicators:

              PDOs                                     Indicators                         Baselines and
                                                                                            (Targets)
Increase the proportion of the target      Percentage of pregnant women with at least     Baseline (target)
population using health services           four prenatal care visits                       III: 92.4 (98)
provided under the Basic Health                                                            IV: 90.2 (98)
Plan.                                                                                      VI: 90.3 (98)
                                                                                           VII: 95.5 (98)
                                                                                           VIII91.3 (98)

                                           Percentage of births attended by skilled       Baseline (target)
                                           personnel                                       III: 98.2 (98)
                                                                                           IV: 91.5 (98)
                                                                                           VI: 93.7 (98)
                                                                                           VII: 96.8 (98)
                                                                                           VIII: 97.6 (98)

                                           Percentage of women in reproductive age        Baseline (target)
                                           that use modern family planning methods         III: 67.9 (73)
                                                                                           IV: 61.0 (66)
                                                                                           VI: 65.1 (70)
                                                                                           VII: 70.4 (76)
                                                                                           VIII: 69.4 (75)

                                           Percentage of children aged 12 to 23 months    Baseline (target)
                                           fully immunized (DPT, Polio and Measles)        III: 42.1 (54)
                                                                                           IV: 26.0 (41)
                                                                                           VI: 35.3 (48)
                                                                                           VII: 33.8 (47)
                                                                                           VIII: 33.0 (46)

                                           Percentage of children under 5 with diarrhea   Baseline (target)
                                           that are medically diagnosed and treated        III: 41.4 (53)
                                                                                           IV: 47.6 (58)
                                                                                           VI: 41.0 (53)
                                                                                           VII: 34.0 (47)
                                                                                           VIII: 37.2 (50)

Improve the quality of services            Percentage of women receiving prenatal         Baseline: (target)
provided under the BHP to the target       care that are immunized against tetanus;        III:92.7 (100)
population                                                                                  IV:89.6(100)
                                                                                           VI: 92.6 (100)
                                                                                           VII: 94.4 (100)
                                                                                          VIII: 93.1 (100)
                                           Percentage of women diagnosed with pre-         Baseline: n.a.
                                           eclampsia referred to tertiary facilities;      Target: 100%


                                                  58
                                              Percentage of staff in facilities run by Health    Baseline: n.a.
                                              Service Providers that are present during          Target: 95%
                                              working hours;
                                              Percentage of target population satisfied          Baseline: n.a.
                                              with the quality of the BHP services.              Target: 75%


Remove financial barriers to access           Percentage of the population eligible for           Target: 80%
and protect the target population             government services under the Social
against the financial consequences of         Security Law enrolled in the National
ill health.                                   Insurance Plan;                                   Baseline: 73%
                                              Percentage of private insurance expenditure          {2000}
                                              as a percentage of total health expenditure       Target: pending

Improve the efficiency of the health          Percentage     of     SENASA's      financial
system                                        resources allocated to primary care level          Baseline: N.A.
                                              services;                                           Target: 30%
                                              Nurse/midwife per doctor ratio in Health           Target: 0.8:1.0
                                              Service Providers (excluding auxiliary
                                              nurses);                                          Target: 1/1,000
                                              Hospital beds per 1,000 population in Health
                                              Service Providers;                                 Target: >90%
                                              Percentage of administrative and managerial
                                              positions created in the reform process at the
                                              regional, provincial, and municipal level of
                                              SENASA that are filled by SENASA
                                              employees.




Triggers for Launching the Second Phase of the APL by Project Development Objective in
the Original PAD

Readiness for expanding Insurance System to             Health Management Information System fully
Additional Provinces and Regions (original              operational in three regions and in SENASA and
Component I)                                            SISALRIL (including billing, reimbursement,
                                                        beneficiary identification, and clinical auditing).

                                                        The proportion of financial resources flowing from
                                                        SENASA to the project regions--on the basis of
                                                        services provided--exceeds 20% of the total financial
                                                        resources allocated to those regions.

Readiness for expanding Quality Assurance               Certification/licensing by SISALRIL and SESPAS of
Measures to Additional Regions and Provinces            core service providers operating within PARSS in
(Component I)                                           numbers that are sufficient to meet expected demand
                                                        for primary health care.

Readiness for Establishing Additional RHS               Selection of up to five new provinces in the remaining
(Component II)                                          regions (I, II, and V) on the basis of: (i) poverty and
                                                        vulnerability of the population; (ii) the health status of
                                                        women and children; and (iii) completed negotiations
                                                        among SESPAS, the Regional Authorities, and
                                                        stakeholders regarding the framework and timetable
                                                        for applying adequate norms for management,
                                                        fiduciary accountability and operational transparency
                                                        as indicated by Phase I experience.

                                                     59
Readiness for Expanding Deconcentration and           Two out of five Health Service Providers and more
Decentralization Process to Additional Regions and    than 1/3 of the hospitals integrated into the five HSP
Provinces                                             assumed full responsibility and authority to manage
                                                      human resources (including relocation of staff,
                                                      contracting and lay-off).

Readiness for Expanding Measures to Strengthen        The 10-year National Strategy Plan specified
Essential Public Health Functions (Component III)     mechanisms for expanding health sector reforms
                                                      achieved during the first four years of the Program;
                                                      action plans for restructuring the national laboratory
                                                      network and pharmaceutical system are designed,
                                                      costed and negotiated with principal stakeholders.



Triggers for the second phase of the APL by Project Development Objective After
Restructuring

Indicator                                                                               Target (2008)

Component 1: Improve access of the poor in Prioritized regions and Provinces to high-quality
health services included in the Plan Básico de Salud of the Seguro Familiar.

Percentage of primary health care facilities in prioritized regions and                       50%
provinces accredited by SESPAS.
Percentage of pregnant women who received prenatal care services in                           50%
prioritized regions and provinces in accordance with national guidelines.

Component 2: Reorganize and strengthen health systems in prioritized regions so they can comply
with the roles and functions as established in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law.

Number of prioritized regions using an integrated financial and performance                   4/4
management system.

Component 3: Strengthen the financial planning of the Subsidized Regime, ensure the effective
enrollment of the poor, and improve their rights under the Seguro Familiar.

Percentage of the poor in prioritized regions and provinces enrolled in the                  >70%
Subsidized Regime who know the benefits of the Basic Health Plan.
Percentage of infants born in public hospitals that receive health certificates              >80%

Component 4: Strengthen the capacity of national health sector organizations to fulfill their roles
and functions as established in the General Health Law and the Social Security Law.

CERSS develops a monitoring and evaluation system for reform progress                     First report
and disseminates results annually                                                        disseminated




                                                     60
Annex 11. Summary of the Final Report on the Investment Activities of PARSS 1

Description
The investment activities in Component I aimed at strengthening the first level of health care
delivery and other strategic areas related to the improvement of the supply side (management,
distribution of supplies, and support services). Activities took place in Regions I to VII. While the
actual implementation period of the Project was 2005-2009, these activities were implemented
mostly during the last 2 years of the Project life. The total number of sub-projects is presented in
the table below:

                              Table 1: PARSS 1 Investment Activities

                      Sub-project status             Number of Sub-projects
                      Completed                                  37
                      Started and not completed                   5
                      Cancelled                                  9
                                             Total               51

A total of 5 subprojects were started and not completed due to technical or procurement problems
while 9 sub-projects were cancelled due to inconsistencies between their periods of
implementation and the Project completion date.

As shown in the table below, the majority of the sub-projects were executed during the last 2years
of implementation, indicating that the preparation activities for these investments were not given
an adequate priority:

              Table 2: Infrastructure Sub-projects by year and amounts ($US millions)

                                                2007                  2008               2009
Completed Sub-projects                            2                    15                 20
Investment amount                               0.22                  1.46               12.57
Accumulated investment amount                   0.22                  1.69               14.21


Component Performance

The analysis of the infrastructure activities shows the following:

        The total final cost paid for the 37 completed sub-projects was 25.24 percent higher than
        the total value of those contracts when they were awarded;

        Only 28 of the 37 completed sub-projects presented scenarios of cost variations
        depending on the duration of the implementation. The final cost of the sum of these sub-
        projects was 10 percent higher than estimated at pre-investment and the total final cost
        was 38 percent higher than the value of the awarded contracts.

        There were serious delays in the sub-projects' implementation, as shown below, which
        points to a low capacity at the PCU (CERSS, which actually had control over the first
        two phases) to manage these processes efficiently. The time-lapse for all three phases
        improved over the last 18 months of the life of the Project.

                                                 61
Table 3: Estimated and actual time of Sub-project implementation

  Phase                       Period Planned (days)    Actual Period (days)      Variation (days)
  Bid evaluation                        60                     180                     120
  Initiation of works                   90                     222                     132
  Period between initiation            109                     270                     161
    and completion of works

Preparation of Sub-projects

The preparation phase experienced the following:

Small rehabilitation works: These activities consisted of the rehabilitation of primary health care
centers dispersed around the country. The infrastructure needs were assessed by different groups
of professionals, guided by terms of reference that were too generic. As a result, the final
products (the assessments) presented wide differences in depth and asymmetries. Furthermore,
this was not identified as an issue by the technical team in CERSS who received the results of the
assessments. This led to significant modifications to the contracts once the works were actually
contracted.

Large works: These works, though i small in number, represented a large share of the total
investment. There were deficiencies in the elaboration of the designs, the selection of the
locations, the monitoring and the initiation of the works. The designs were seriously weak,
showed little or no knowledge of the locations selected, and the proposed implementation times
were unrealistic. All of this caused significant modifications to the works during their
implementation.

Management and Implementation of Subprojects
CERSS was responsible, through its Infrastructure Unit, for managing the implementation of
these activities. Its management was highly centralized, and it did not consult with the health
centers in the regions and only alittle with SESPAS. This might be explained by the shortage of
human resources in SESPAS. This system did not allow leaving any learning experience in the
other institutions, though it was the most advisable to achieve the implementation of activities.

Within the CERSS infrastructure unit, there was a comparatively small group of technical staff
dedicated to the preparation of sub-projects rather than to the monitoring of their actual
implementation. The design of a significant number of sub-projects was concentrated in a reduced
number of people, a factor that contributed to their inability to prevent and correct the
deficiencies highlighted in the assessments. Technical deficiencies were present during the
implementation of sub-projects as well. An example of these weaknesses was the sub-project of
the Pimentel Hospital.

These deficiencies in supervision were corrected by CERSS, after the Bank team allocated an
expert to assess the status of the infrastructure component and placed a strong focus and constant
support to overcome the problems and move the implementation of the viable sub-projects. A
strong supervision of the "physical" progress of the sub-projects, and monitoring of the
implementation times was agreed and implemented until Project completion.




                                                62
Lessons Learned

       It is crucial to prepare good quality and reliable diagnostics to provide realistic
       assessments of the needs. This is key to having a realistic understanding of the problems
       and to formulate adequate, realistic solutions;

       In order to formulate an investment component, sector diagnostic studies should be
       prepared and they should be framed within the strategic programs of the institutions,
       which provide guidance on the sector priorities. Besides, it is important to define
       standards of quality and models for the provision of services;

       In order to successfully prepare and implement infrastructure activities, it is key to have
       strong institutional capacity to manage these processes;

       Focusing on the preparation phase is important: allocating enough human resources and
       time will avoid problems during implementation, reduce risks, and avoid problems;

       Importance of focusing on implementation calendars while preparing an infrastructure
       project;

       It is crucial to define during preparation the monitoring practices that will be used to
       follow up on a project's implementation. This allows for identifying milestones,
       monitoring processes, and drawing lessons from them.




                                              63
 
Map




      64
