                   DATA SHEET PROJECTRESTRUCTURING
                                    -

                  HEALTH SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT

                                     (LOAN 7185-DO)


Date: December 13,2006                            Team Leader: Christoph Kurowski
Country: DominicanRepublic                        Sector Manager: KeithHansen
ProjectName: HealthReform Support Project         Country Director: Caroline Anstey
Project ID:PO76802                                Environmental Category: B
Borrower: Dominican Republic
Responsible agency: Comisi6nEjecutivo para la Reformadel Sector Salud(CERSS)
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)




RevisedProject Development Objective/outcomes:
Support the Borrower in (i) improving access of thepoor in Prioritized Regions and
Provinces to high quality health services included in the Plan Bdsico de Salud of the
Seguro Familiar; (ii) reorganizing and strengthening health systems in Prioritized
Regions to comply with the roles andfunctions as establishedin the General Health Law
and the Social Security Law; (iii) strengthening thefinancial planning of the Rkgimen
Subsidiado, ensuring the effective enrollment of thepoor and improving their knowledge
of their rights under the Seguro Familiar; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of national
health sector organizations to comply with their roles andfunctions as establishedin the
General HealthLaw and the Social Security Law.
Does the restructured Project trigger any new safeguard policies?N o
                            RevisedFinancingPlan (US$m.)
                                 Source                                        Total
Borrower                                                                      $9.1 million
IBRD/IDA                                                                     $30.0 million
Total                                                                        $39.1 million

Abbreviations and Definitions


CERSS               Comisi6nEjecutiva para laReformadel Sector Salud, the
                    Borrower's Executive Commissionfor Health Sector Reform
PlanBasico de Salud The Borrower's package of healthservices includedinthe Seguro
                    Familiar as approved by the National Social Security Council
PrioritizedRegions  The Borrower's Health Regions and Provinces that constitute the
and Provinces       first phase o f the gradual implementation o f the Rkgimen
                    Subsidiado of the Seguro Familiar, pursuant to a resolution of the
                    National Social Security Council and additional provinces that
                    may be identified by the Borrower for the accelerated
                    implementation o f the reform on the basis o f poverty levels
                    subject to the Bank's approval
PROMESEKAL          The Borrower's Essential Drugs Program / Logistic Support Hub
                    (Programa de Medicamentos Esenciales / Central de Apoyo
                    Logistico), established to finance and manage the Borrower's
                    People's Pharmacies (Farmacias del Pueblo) that sell generic and
                    essential drugs at reduced prices to poor people and to procure
                    pharmaceuticals for all the Borrower's public health facilities
Rkgimen Subsidiado  The Borrower's subsidized scheme created pursuant to the
                    Borrower's Social Security Law, which covers independent
                    workers who earn irregular wages below the minimum wage, and
                    include the poor, the unemployed, the homeless and the
                    handicapped
Seguro Familiar     The Borrower's family health insurance established pursuant to
                    the Borrower's Social Security Law
SENASA              Seguro Nacional de Salud, the Borrower public health risk
                    administrator, created pursuant to the Borrower's Social Security
                    Law 87-01
SESPAS              Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publicay Asistencia Social, the
                    Borrower's Secretariat o f Public Health and Social Assistance,
                    established pursuant to the Borrower's LawNo. 4378, dated
                    February 10, 1956
STP                 Secretariado T6cnico de la Presidencia, the Borrower's Technical
                    Secretariat ofthe Presidency




                                         2

                               DOMINICANREPUBLIC
                  HEALTHSECTORREFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
                                    (LOAN 7185-DO]
                                   PROJECTPAPER

Introduction
1. ThisProject Paper seeks the approval ofthe Executive Directorsto introducethe
   changes inthe DominicanRepublic, Health Sector Reform Support Project (the
   Project), (Loan No. 7185, Project ID:P076802) and any accompanying amendments
   to the Project's legal documents to: (i) align the Project's Development Objectives,
   components and activities with the government's mid-termhealth sector reform
   program and (ii)  modify the Project's financing parameters, disbursement monitoring
   framework and procurement rules to facilitate Project management and
   implementationwhile ensuringthe appropriate use o f Project funds.

2  The Project i s supported by the first phase o f a three-phase Adaptable Program Loan
   (APL) that co-finances the Borrower's healthsector reform. The proposed changes
   constitute a major step inaligning the APL with the Government's new strategy to
   implement the General Health and Social Security Law. At this stage it is not clear
   whether a subsequentphase will proceed. Ifa second phase APL were to be deemed
   justified, changesto the themes ofthe second andthirdphase ofthe APL would be
   likely. Such changes would be proposed with the Project Appraisal Document o f the
   APL's second phase which would be submittedto the Bank's Board o f Executive
   Directors for approval.

Background and Reasons for Restructuring
3. The Board approved a $30.0 million loan for the Health Sector Reform Support
   Projecton June 26,2003. The loan constitutes the first o f the three phases o f a $90
   millionAPL to be implementedbetween 2003 and 2015.

4. The original Project Development Objectives are to (a) reduce child mortality,
   improve maternalhealth, and contribute to the eradication o f extreme poverty by
   protectingthe poorest from financial loss due to illhealthand disability; and (b)
   support the implementation o fthe Borrower's health sector reform legislation.

5. The loan did not become effective untilJanuary 6,2005, approximately 18 months
   after Board approval, due to delays inits ratification by Congress. The time lag
   betweenthe loan's approvalbythe Boardand its effectiveness spanned an
   administrationchange inthe DominicanRepublic, following presidentialelections in
   May 2004.

6. Since loan effectiveness, the Project suffered substantial implementation delays. As
   o ftoday, only about $4.2 million, or approximately 15% o fthe loan amount have
   beendisbursed. The Government of the DominicanRepublic (GoDR) and the Bank
   anticipated implementationdelays early on in2005 due to discrepancies betweenthe
   GoDR's approach to reform, emerging priorities and Project design.

                                             3

7. Assuming office inAugust 2004, the incoming administration adopted an approach to
   reformthat breaks withthe past. Earlier, efforts hadbeen ad-hoc and largely
   uncoordinated, often driven by individual actors. Development partners supported the
   reform indistinct geo-political areas with differentpriorities. As a result, overall
   reformprogress hadbeen slow. Moreover, the approach caused substantial
   geographical differences inboth achievements and reform content. For example, only
   two out o f nine regions established financial management systems for their
   decentralized service delivery systems; furthermore, these financial management
   systems are not compatible.

8. Learningfrom the past, the new administration focused on buildingconsensus around
   reform priorities among sector stakeholders, coordinating reform initiatives and
   exploiting synergies. Moreover, it attempts converging reform efforts inregions and
   provinces prioritizedbased on poverty levels. Accordingly, the administration
   launched inMay 2005 a process, including a series o f analyses, workshops and
   consultations carried out underthe Project, inwhich it developedjointly with other
    stakeholders a three-year reform program. The ratificationo fthe program inMay
   2006 formalized a shift inthe GoDR's short andmid-termreformpriorities. The
   program aims to accelerate the enrollment o fthe poor into the Rigimen Subsidiado
    (subsidized regime) o f the Seguro Familiar (family insurance) inprioritizedregions
   and provinces, foster their demand and ensure their access to quality health services
   and strengthen public sector organizations to comply withtheir roles and functions as
   established inthe General Health and Social Security Laws.

9. This shift inshort andmid-termpriorities created discrepancies betweenProject
   activities and sector initiatives. For example, while the Project aims to expand the
    coverage o f services included inthe Seguro Familiar's ample benefitpackage ina
    few regions ofthe west, sector initiatives focus on improvingthe quality of essential
   health services universally available to the poor. Furthermore, analyses carried out
    under the Project showed that some Project DevelopmentObjectives andtriggers for
   phase 2 are overly optimistic. Though the implementation o fthe General Health and
    Social Security Laws will produce significant results inthe mid-term, any significant
    impact at the level o f healthoutcomes andpoverty reduction is unlikely to materialize
    over the life-timeo f the Project.

10. The shiftinreform priorities has also ramificationsfor the secondandthirdphase of
   the APL. The triggersfor the secondphase o fthe APL do not correspond with
    GoDR's short and mid-termreform objectives. Giventhe discrepancies betweenthe
   theme ofthe APL's first phase and GoDR's reform priorities inthe short and mid-
   term, similar incongruities are expected betweenthe themes of the APL's second and
   thirdphase and GoDR's reformpriorities inthe midand long-term.

11.Discussions to restructure the Project commenced inMarch2005 when GoDR and
   Bank discussed an early draft of the mid-term reform program. Recognizingthe
    importance o f accelerating the reform and the Project's role inthis process, GoDR
   and Bank agreed on a two step approach to align the APL with GoDR's strategy to
    implementthe General Healthand Social Security Law. Ina first step, the first phase
   o f the APL would be immediately restructured to alignthe Project's Development

                                             4

    Objectives, components and activities and triggers for phase two withthe GoDR's
   mid-term reformprogram and objectives, Then, the themes and indicators for phases
   two andthree would be developed inparallel to the implementationo f phase one
   basedon a series of analyses, workshops and consultations with a broadrange o f
    stakeholders carried out under the Project.

Proposed Changes
12. The proposed first order restructuringconstitutes the first step inaligning the APL
    withthe GoDR's planto implementthe General Healthand Social Security Law. The
   proposal includes (i)   comprehensive changes to the Project's Development
    Objectives, components and activities to align the Project with the government's mid-
   term health sector reform program and (ii)    changes to the Project's financing
   parameters, disbursement monitoring framework and procurement rules to facilitate
   Projectmanagement and implementation while ensuringthe appropriate use o f
    Projectfunds.

ProiectDevelopmentObiectives, components and activities
13. The original Project Development Objectives include reductions inchild mortality,
    improvements inmaternal health, reduction o f poverty by protectingthe poorest from
    financial loss due to illhealth and disability, and the implementation o f healthsector
   reform legislation. While these objectives remainvalid as the long-term vision for the
    sector, the proposed changes would confine the ProjectDevelopment Objectivesto
    key objectives ofthe GoDR's mid-termreformprogram that canbe achieved over the
    next two years. The Development Objectives o fthe restructured Project would be to
    support the Borrower in(i)  improving access o fthe poor inPrioritizedRegions and
    Provinces to highquality health services includedinthe Plan Bbsico de Salud o fthe
    Seguro Familiar; (ii)  reorganizing and strengthening health systems inPrioritized
    Regions to comply with the roles and functions as established inthe General Health
    Law and the Social Security Law; (iii)  strengtheningthe financial planning ofthe
    Rkgimen Subsidiado, ensuringthe effective enrollment o f the poor and improving
    their knowledgeoftheir rightsunderthe Seguro Familiar; and(iv) strengtheningthe
    capacity o f national healthsector organizations to comply with their roles and
    functions as established inthe General HealthLaw and the Social Security Law.

14. The proposed changes would include reorientingthe geographical focus o fthe Project
    to the regions and provinces that the GoDR has selected based onpoverty levels for
    the accelerated implementation o f the Rkgimen Subsidiado o f the Seguro Familiar.
    Currently, Project activities focus on healthregions inthe west o f the country. The
    reorientation o f the geographical focus would not only align the Projectwith the
    GoDR's strategy o ftargeting healthreform efforts to the poorest, but also support
    efforts to harmonize new policies and practices across the targeted regions and
    provinces.

15. The proposed changes include the substitutiono f the original Project components
    with four new ones, each corresponding to one o fthe four proposed newProject
   Development Objectives (table 1). The first component would finance activities that
    improve the access to high-quality health services inprioritizedregions`and provinces

                                              5

      to meet the increasing demand o f the poor enrolled into the RkgimenSubsidiado,in
      particular, activities to close gaps inthe infrastructure network and improve the
      condition of buildings and equipment, the geographical distribution andmanagement
      ofhuman resources for health, the clinical management o fpatients, the supply and
      use o fpharmaceuticals and the general management o f hospitals.



                         Table 1:Projectcomponentsand estimated costs


 Projectcomponents                                                                   Estimatedcosts
                                                                                       [in!$ million1
 Component 1: Improve access o fthe poor in Prioritized Regions and
 ProvLcesto highquality health services included inthe Plan Bhsico de Salud                $15.6
 o f the SeguroFamiliar
 Component2: Reorganizeand strengthen health systems inPrioritized
 Regions to comply with the roles and functions as established inthe general                $1.2
 health and social security laws
 Component3: Develop a multi-annual financing planfor the Rbgimen
 Subsidiado,ensure the effective enrollment o fthe poor and improve their                   $1.3
 knowledge o f entitlements
 Component4: Strengthenthe capacity o f national health sector organizations
Ito comply with their roles and functions as established inthe general health               $6.1
 and social security laws

 Note: The total amount of $24.1 millionreflects the loanamount expectedto be remainingat the end of
 November2006.

 16. The second component would finance interventions to support the reorganization and
      strengthening o fhealth systemsinprioritizedregions according to roles and functions
      definedinthe General HealthLaw and Social Security Law, including activities to
      consolidate and implement new administrative, management and service delivery
      models, the development o f healthmanagement information systems and the
      strengtheningo f capacity to design, negotiate andmonitor performance agreements
      and service contracts.

 17. The third component would finance activities that ensure the financial sustainability
      of the RkgimenSubsidiado,the effective enrolment o f eligiblepoor andtheir
      knowledge o f the entitlements, including activities that strengthen the planning and
      coordination o f the budgetingprocess, that buildthe capacity to design, negotiate and
      monitor performance agreements and purchase contracts, that provide the poor with
      the necessary documentation to enroll into theRegimenSubsidadoandthat enhance
      their knowledgeofthe entitlements included inthe Plan Bdsico de Salud.

 18. The fourth component would finance activities that buildthe capacity o f national
      public health sector agencies to comply with the roles and functions established inthe
      General Health Law and the Social Security Law. Priority would be givento
      SESPAS, SENASA, PROMESEKAL, STP and CERSS and activities to establish
      monitoring and evaluation systems for the sector, the reform process and its impact.


                                                      6

    The component would also include activities to ensure the appropriate management
    ofthe Project.

Financingparameters, disbursement andprocurement rules
19. The proposed restructuringwould introduce changes to the Project's financing
   parameters, disbursement monitoring fiamework andprocurement rules to facilitate
    Project management and implementation, all according to Country Financing
   Parameters andBank norms updated or established since Project approval.

20. The proposed changes to the fiduciary arrangements include the introduction o f a
    unifiedshare of 80% Bank financing across all Project activities. Disbursements
    would be documented and monitoredaccording to Project components as opposed to
   type o f expenditures.The proposed unifiedshare o f 80% Bank financing for future
    Project activities would be higher than the original one (70%), but below the
    maximum allowed by the new Country FinancingParameters (90%).

21. The introductionof a single percentage of Bank financing would simplifythe
    financial management and execution o fthe Project. Most importantly, the simplified
    disbursement schedule would helpto avoid the need for reallocations o f resources
    across disbursementcategories over the lifetime o f the Project andthus enhance
    flexibility inthe use o f loanresources.

22. The increase inthe share o f Bank financing to 80% would permit the implementation
    o f the first 12-monthprocurement plan o f the restructured Project ($14 million)
    without major changes to the counterpart fund allocations already approved for 2006
    and requested for 2007. This change would result ina reduction o f the Project size
    from $42.7 to $38.7 million (table 2). Despite this reduction, there would be sufficient
    resources to achieve the revised Project Development Objectives.


                 Table 2: FinancingPlan-Originalversus restructuredProject

                                         Original Project              Restructured Project
              ,Borrower                   $12.7 million (30%)               $9.1 million (23%)
               lBRD                          $30 million (70%)             $30 million (77%*)
               Total                     $42.7 million (100%)            $39.1million (100%)

Note that the average share o f Bank financing over the life-timeo f the Project is 77% andthus slightly
lower than the share o f 80% proposed for future activities, since approximately 10%o f all loan resources
have already been disbursedaccording to the original share o fBank Financing.

23. The restructured Projectwould adopt the Bank's procurement guidelines dated May
   2004. This change would yield two mainbenefits. First, the introductiono f additional
   procurement methods (e.g. Quality Based Selection, Selection under a FixedBudget
   and Single Source Selection) and the abolishment o f aggregatethresholds for all
   procurement methods would provide more flexibility and ultimately increase the
   efficiency o f the use o f loanfunds. Second, the mandatory use o f a procurement plan
   would support the planningand coordination across implementingagencies.


                                                     7

24. The proposed restructuring would extend the Loan's closing date by 12months to
    December 31,2008. The extension would partially compensate for the 18-month
    delay inProjecteffectiveness due to late congressional approval and consecutive
    implementationdelays owing to Project design problems. The revised Project
    implementationschedule would provide the GoDR with a realistic timeframe to
    achievethe revisedProject Development Objectives.

Analysis
25. The proposed changes would require modifications to the original financial,
    organizational and institutional, environmental and social and economic aspects. The
    modifications ofthe financial aspects are discussed above (see paragraphs 19 to 21).

Organizational and institutional aspects
26. As inthe originalProject design, the Borrower would carry out the Projectthrough
    the projectcoordinatingunitinCERSS with support ofparticipatingentities.
    PROMESEKAL would, however, join SESPAS and SENASA as participating
    entities. PROMESE/CAL would play a critical role inachieving some o f the revised
    Project DevelopmentObjectives. Strengtheningthe distribution system o f drugs
    operated by PROMESEKAL, for example, would be key to improve the poor's
    access to essential drugs. Furthermore, strengthening PROMESEKAL's capacity to
    procure drugs according to internationalcompetitiveprocedures would significantly
    reduce their costs. PROMESEKAL would technically support the implementation o f
    related activities. Procurement and financial management responsibilitiesfor such
    activities, however, would remainthe responsibility o f CERSS. PROMESEKAL's
    capacity to technically participate inthe implementationo fthe Project has been
    analyzed and found appropriate.

Environmentaland social aspects
27. The restructured Project would include the extension andconstruction of health
    facilities inaddition to the civil works to be carried out under original Project design.
    The Borrower has strengthenedthe environmental framework ofthe Operational
    Manual accordingly to the satisfaction o f the Bank. The addition o f the extension and
    construction o f health facilities would not require the preparation and Bank approval
    o f an Involuntary Resettlement Framework for the Project, as the Borrower would not
    finance any civil works with Project funds that could leadto involuntary resettlement.
    Corresponding exclusion criteria have been introducedinto the Operational Manual
    and approved by the Bank.

28. The Project's improved environmentalframework reflects the results o f consultations
    with awide-range of organizations, including government and civil society
    organizations, as well as development partners. Some o f the consultations were
    carried out between2002 and 2003 underthe the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
    (IDB) financed Modernization ofthe Health SystemProject'. Additional wide-
'Thefollowing  government organizations were consulted: State Secretariat o f Environment and Natural
Resources; State Secretariat o f Public Works; State Secretariat o fPublic Health and Social Assistance
(Bureau of Environmental Health); State Secretariat o f Agriculture; Presidential Council on AIDS
(COPRESIDA); Government o fthe National District. The following civil society organizations were
                                                      8

     ranging consultations were carried out inearly 2006 during a diagnostic update in
     health regions 111, IV and V that aimedto determine viewpoints, review action plans
     and identify opportunities for collaborationbetweencentral government, local
     governments and civil society2.

Economic aspects
29. The restructured Project would generate economic gains that substantially exceed its
     costs. The most noteworthy economic savings and gains would be expected from (i)
     the improved quality o f health services (qualified staff would operate inan
     environmentthat encourages service quality and provides the necessary supplies and
     equipment); (ii) system-wideimplementationo f financial management systems
                          the
     and the introduction o f performance management agreements that would link budget
     transfers to results; (iii)  improvements inpublic procurement procedures that would
     reduce public resource leakages and inefficiencies; (iv) improvedbudget allocation
     decisions as the capacity for strategic planningwould be strengthened and monitoring
     and evaluation systems developed; and (v) a more result-oriented management o f
     public resources as lines o f accountability to civil society would be strengthened(the
     public's access to informationwould be improved and the beneficiaries o fthe Seguro
     Familiar empowered).

Expected outcomes
30, The proposed restructuringwould modify the Project's Development Objective, the
     Project's performance indicators and targets as presented inthe annex o f the
     implementation letter andthe triggers for the second phase o fthe APL. The
     Development Objectives o f the restructured Projectwould be to:

         To support the Borrower in(i)         improving access o f the poor inprioritizedregions
         and provinces to highquality health services included inthe Plan Bdsico de Salud
         o f the Seguro Familiar; (ii)     reorganizing and strengthening health systems in
         prioritized regions to comply with the roles and functions as established inthe
          General HealthLaw and the Social Security Law; (iii)              strengtheningthe financial
         planningofthe Rkgimen Subsidiado, ensuringthe effective enrollment o f the poor
         and improvingtheir knowledge o f their rights under the Seguro Familiar; and (iv)
          strengtheningthe capacity ofnationalhealth sector organizations to comply with
         their roles andfunctions as established inthe GeneralHealthLaw andthe Social
          Security Law.



consulted: The Dominican Medical College; the Dominican Association o f Clinical Laboratory
Professionals (ADOPLAC) the Dominican College o fEngineers and Architects (CODIA); the Sanitation
Engineers chapter; and the Autonomous University o f Santo Domingo. The following development
partners were consulted: the Pan-American Health Office (PAHO); and Japanese Cooperation (JIICA).
 The following organizations were consulted: the Bureauo fEnvironmental Health o fthe State Secretariat
o f Public Health and Social Assistance; inregion IV: the local governments o f Tamayo, Neyba, and
Barahona; the churches inthe same municipalities; the Ecological Society o f Barahona; inregion 111,the
local governments o f San Francisco de Macoris, Nagua, and Samana, the northeast regional delegation o f
the State Secretariat o f Environment and Natural Resources; inregion V the Central University o fthe East,
the Medical College, the latter's delegation, service heads andjanitorial staff o fprincipal health
establishments.
                                                       9

31.RevisedProjectperformance indicators and targets have been developed and defined
   jointly by the GoDR andthe Bank. The revisedProject performance indicator
    framework i s presented inannex 1.

32. Onthe basis o fthe Projectperformance indicator framework, GoDR and Bank
    selected six indicators and corresponding targets to serve as triggers for the second
   phase o fthe APL (table 3). Four o f these triggers would constitute critical milestones
   towards improved health and reduced out-of-pocket expenditures of the poor. First,
    more than 50% o f all primary healthcare facilities delivering the Plan Bdsico de
   Salud ofthe Rkgimen Subsidiado inprioritizedregions andprovinces meet minimum
    requirements to be accredited with SESPAS. Second, morethan 50% o f all antenatal
   care services provided inthe prioritized regions andprovinces follow nationalcare
    guidelines. Third, more than 70% o f the poor enrolled inthe Rkgimen Subsidiado
    know the entitlements under the Plan Bdsico de Saludof the Seguro Familiar.
    Fourth, more than 80% o f all infants born inpublic hospitals would receive birth
    certificates. Currently, lack o f birthcertificates i s one o fthe reasons why
    approximately one inevery two poor lacks the legal documentation to be enrolled
   into the RkgimenSubsidiado.

33. The remainingtwo o fthe six triggers for the second phase o fthe APL would
    constitute critical milestones inthe reform of organizations and institutions.First,
    integrated financial and performance management system are implementedinall
   prioritizedregions. An integrated financial and performance management systemi s
    sine qua non for the autonomizationo f the regional health systems and the
   introductiono f a results-based budgetingsystem and service contracts. Second,
   CERSS develops and sustains a monitoring and evaluation system for the reform
   process that ensures the continuous review o fprogress and impact and, ifnecessary,
   corrections to policies andpractices.




                                               10

 Table 3: Triggersfor the second phaseof the APL by ProjectDevelopmentObjectives

I Indicator                                                             I   Target (2008)
  Component 1: Improve access o fthe poor inPrioritizedRegions andProvincesto highquality
 health services included inthe Plan Bhico de Salud o fthe Seguro Familiar
 YOofprimary public health care facilities inprioritized regions and
 Drovinces accredited with SESPAS                                                50%
  % ofpregnant women who receive antenatal care services inprioritized
 regions and provinces according to national guidelines                          50%
  Component 2: Reorganize and strengthen health systems inPrioritized Regions to comply with
 theroles and functions as established inthe GeneralHealthLaw andthe Social Securitv Law




  % ofthe poor inPrioritized regions and Provinces enrolled inthe
 RkgimenSubsidiadowho know the benefits ofthe Plan Bhsico de Salud               >70%
  YOof infants born inpublic hospitals that receive birthcertificates            >80%


  CERSS develops a monitoringand evaluation systemfor reform                  Firstreport
 DroPressand disseminates results annuallv                                   disseminated

 Note: For moredetailed information, including baselinessee annex 1.

 Risks
  34. Achieving the ProjectDevelopment Objectives would require continuous political
      support for the mid-termreform program. Change inthe political leadership o f any
      key sector agency wouldpose athreat to achievingthe reform andProject
      Development Objectives. We consider this risk as moderate as approval ratings o fthe
      sector have significantly improved since the Presidentreplaced key sector leaders in
      August 2005. Inaddition, changes inpolitical leadership are less likely inthe second
     halfo f the administrations term that commenced inAugust 2006. Initiatives
      mitigating the risks associated with possible changes inpolitical leadership include
     the involvement of technical officers o f key sector agencies andpolitical
     representatives o fPrioritizedRegions and Provinces inthe development o f the mid-
     term reform program, the launcho fparticipatory processes that will produce region
      specific reform plans, the development o f a strategy to broadly disseminate the
      objectives o fthe mid-termreform program and interventions to improve accessto
      information about reform progress.

 35. Achieving some o f the Project Development Objectives and outcomes would
     critically dependonthe capacity and commitment o f SESPAS, including its
     decentralized offices, to reinventitself and lead the reform process. Inthe past,
      SESPAS didnot fulfill this central role, mainly due to weak political leadership and
     lack o f institutional. Inaddition, there was a lack o f consensus among sector actors
     about mid-termreform priorities. This latter void has been filled with the
     development and endorsement o f the mid-termreform programby key sector
     stakeholders. Efforts to mitigate the residual risk o f inadequate reform progress under

                                                   11

   the leadership of SESPAS will focus on capacity building, including training and
    staffing of key units, as well as models o f external support to effectively manage
   organizational change.

36. The fiduciary risks are considered moderate and mitigatingmeasures are under
    implementation. The Project's financial resources are managed by a financial
   management team inCERSS that has many years o f experience with Bankprojects.
   The auditors issued an unqualified opinion for the financial statements o f FY 2005.
   The FinancialMonitoringReports are submitted on time and o f acceptable quality. In
   the first year o f implementation, many efforts went into the training and coaching o f
   theProject's procurement team. More recently, CERSS hired additionalprocurement
   staff that had successfully implementeda health sector project financed by the Inter-
   American DevelopmentBank. The Bank plans to carry out an extensive procurement
   training program over the nextweeks and will continue to closely supervise the
   Project's procurement processes.




                                             12

                      Annex 1:Project Performance Indicator Framework

DevelopmentObjective                                                           Base Line and Target
Iniprove access of the                                                         Base line: 0%
poor in Prioritized                                                            2008: 50%
Regions and Provinces
to high quality health
services included in the
Plan Bdsico de Saliid of
the Seguro Familiar
                                                                               Base line: To be determined
                           accessof the-poor         facilities inPRP's that   (January2007)
                           enrolledinthe Rigimen     have tracer drugs ofthe   2008: To be determined
                           Subsidiado to essential   Plan Bdsico de Salud
                           drugsincluded inthe       availablefor the
                           Plan Bcisico de Salud     population enrolled inthe

                                                                               Base line: `Io bc: dctrnnined
                                                                               (Jmuary 2007)
                                                                               2008: >SO%


                                                     %of infantswho receive    Base line: To be determined
                                                     routine check-ups in      (January 2007)
                                                     PRP's accordingto         2008: >50%
                                                     national guidelines
                                                     %ofpersonnelinPRP's       Base line: To be determine
                                                     who are familiar with the (January 2007)
                                                     national guidelinesfor    2008: >SO%
                                                     maternaland child care
                                                     YOofhospital executives   Base line: 0%
                           hospital executivesbased  of secondary care         2008: To be determined
                           on competitive            facilities inPRP's that   (January 2007)
                           procedures                have been contracted
                                                     through competitive
                                                     proceduresover the last
                                                     12months
                           InPRP's, manage           %of secondary care        Base line: 0%
                           hospitalson the basisof   facilities inPRP's that   2008: To be determined
                           financial and performance disseminate quarterly     (January 2007)
                           managementsystems         performancereports

Reorganizeand
strengthenhealth systems
inprioritizedregions to
comply with the roles and
functions as establishedin
the GeneralHealth Law
and the SocialSecurity
Law




                                                    13

                            SESPAS develops.          Number o f annual         Base line: 0
                            negotiatesand enforces    performanceagreements     2008: Servicios Regionales de
                            annualperformance         betweenSESPAS and         Salud ofregions 111, IV, V and
                            agreementswith Servicios  Servicios Regionales de   V I
                            Regionalesde Salud in     Salud that include
                            PR's that provide         incentivesto improve
                            incentivesto improve      performance
                            performance
Strengthenthefinancial      Increasethe budgetfor     %ofthe budgetfor health   Base line: To be determined
planning of the RPgimen     health care delively      care delivery transferred (January 2007)
Subsidiado,ensure the       transferredto PRs         to PRs through SENASA     2008: To be determined
effective enrollment of the through SENASA                                      (Januarv 2007)
poor and improve their      SESPAS, SRS, SENASA       SESPAS, SRS, SENASA       June 2007: Multi-annual
knowledge of their rights   and STP develop,          and STP have developed,   financing plan for the Rigimen
under the Seguro Familiar   approve and implement a   approvedand implement     Subsidiado inPRP's developed
                            financing plan for the    amulti-annual financing   September2007: Multi-annual
                            Rigimen Subsidiado        plan for the Rigimen      financing plan for the Rigimen
                            (2008-2010) inPRP's       Subsidiado inPRP's        Subsidiado inPRP's approved
                                                      (ZOOS to 2010)            January 2008: Multi-annual
                                                                                financing plan for the Rigimen
                                                                                Subsidiado inPRP's reflected
                                                                                inthe budgetfor FY2008

                                                                                Base line: To be determined
                                                                                (January 2007
                                                                                2008: >'lo%



                                                                                Base line: 0%
                                                                                2008: 280%




Strengthenthe capacity of                             Monitoringand             May 2007: System dcsigncd
national health sector      evaluates the performance evaluationsystem          October 2007: System
organizations to comply     o fthe health sector and  designed, populated,and   populated
with their roles and        disseminates results      resultsdisseminated       January 2008: First
functions as established    annually                                            performance report
in the General Health                                                           disseminated
Law and the Social          SENASA monitors and       Monitoringand             May 2007: S),stemdesigned
SecurityLaw                 evaluates the Rkgimen     evaluationsystem          October 2007: System
                            Subsidiado and            designed, populated,and   populated
                            disseminates the results  resultsdisseminated       January 2008: First
                            annually                                            pcrformancc rcport
                                                                                disseminated
                            PROMESEKAL                % of drugs and medical    Base line: 0%
                            procures drugs and        supplies(by value in $)   2008: 20%
                            medical supplies          procuredby
                            accordingto international PROMESE/CAL
                            biddingprocedures         accordingto international
                                                      bidding procedures

                                                      Monitoring and            May 2007: Systm designed
                                                      evaluationsystem          October2007: System
                                                      designed, populated, and  populritcd
                                                      results disseminated      January 2008: First
                                                                                ptrformaiicc report
                                                                                disscminnrrd




                                                     14

Note: Triggers for secondphase ofthe APL are highlighted ingray. Studiesto establish missing baseline
data and targets have been launched andwill be completed before the end o f January 2007.
Abbreviations: PRP's: Prioritized Regions and Provinces; PR's: Prioritized Regions; see also definitions in
section 1 ofthe Project Paper

wb175385
P:\GENERAL\LCSHD\KUROWSKI\DOMINICANREPUBLIC\CERSSRESTRUCTURING\FINALBOARDPROJECT
PAPERWinalBoardPP~LN7185-DO-Nov17-2006.doc
12/06/2006 11:39:00 AM




                                                   15

