Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7185-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Reform Support Project) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 27, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7185-DO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 2003, between the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).+ 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated April 9, 
2003, describing a program desi
gned to support the Borrower’s heath sector reform - 
Programa de Apoyo a la Reforma del Sector Salud
 (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such program; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately twelve 
years, as part of an adaptable program lending sequence, to be utilized by the Borrower in 
the implementation of the Program; and 
 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms 
part of the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the first phase of the Program, upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
Page  3
-
2
-
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan." 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
"Annual Action Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.06 
(a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Basic Health Plan” means the Borrower’s basic health plan, approved 
by 
Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social 
pursuant to resolution 51-06 of October 30, 
2002; 
 
(c) "BCRD" 
means 
Banco Central de la República Dominicana
,
the 
Borrower’s Central Bank; 
 
(d) “CERSS” 
means 
Comisión Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud
,
the Borrower’s Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform, established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree No. 308-97 of July 10, 1997; 
 
(e) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report  prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (i) the Project performance indicators; and (ii) the 
scope of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement, as such 
letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(g) 
"Law No. 42-01" means 
Ley No. 42-01
 of
the Borrower, dated March 8, 
2001, which established the legal framework for a national health system; 
 
(h) 
"Law No. 87-01" means  
Ley No. 87-01
 of the Borrower, dated May 9, 
2001, which established the legal framework for the Borrower’s new social security 
system; 
 
(i) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“PAHO” means Pan American Health Organization;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“PAHO Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and 
PAHO, referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement;  
 
(l) “Participating 
Agency” 
means 
Secretaría de Salud Pública y Asistencia 
Social
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance; 
 
(m) 
"Participating Entity" means a public entity vested with legal personality 
which has partial or total jurisdiction over one or more Project activities to be included in 
a
given Annual Action Plan; 
 
(n) 
"Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
"Participation Arrangement" means the arrangement referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Performance Indicators” means  the 
indicators 
for 
monitoring 
and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives set forth in the 
Implementation Letter; 
 
(r) 
“Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
framework for the Project, that contains the rules and procedures for mitigating potential 
negative impacts in the livelihood of communities under the Project area; and 
 
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million 
Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Page  5
-
4
-
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of carrying out the Project, 
open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account 
(the Special Account) in the BCRD on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(ii) 
deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the PCU, with the assistance 
of the Participating Entities and/or the Participating Agency, as the case may be, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health, technical, 
administrative, financial, educational and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
Page  7
-
6
-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual so as to achieve the 
Performance Indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall issue an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
containing, 
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of 
the Project, including:  
 
(i) 
a model Participation Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
a model Participation Arrangement; 
 
(iii) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the collection, 
disposal and treatment of medical waste, which safeguards and 
actions shall be applied to prevent or mitigate any possible 
negative environmental impact said disposal might otherwise 
cause;  
 
(iv) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the 
rehabilitation and expansion of health facilities, which 
safeguards and actions shall be applied to prevent or mitigate any 
possible negative environmental impact said construction may 
otherwise cause, such as, in particular, increase in deforestation, 
pollution of groundwater, negative impacts on endangered 
Page  8
-
7
-
species, increased soil erosion, and encroachment on natural 
habitats; 
 
(v) 
personal health and safety provisions for the handling and 
disposal of hazardous wastes; 
 
(vi) 
the Resettlement Framework; and 
 
(vii) 
guidelines for the preparation of Annual Action Plans. 
 
(c) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.05.  (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain within CERSS, at all 
times during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility of the PCU to coordinate, monitor and supervise the carrying out of the 
Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by an executive director and a financial and administrative 
director, and assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff in numbers and 
with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and selected in accordance with competitive and 
transparent procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than October 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting 
in year 2003, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an annual action plan, each said plan 
to include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower with the 
assistance of the corresponding Participating Entities or Participating Agency, as the case 
may be, during the calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the 
procurement plan and disbursement plan for each of said Project activities;  
 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan in accordance with 
its terms; and  
 
(c) 
carry out the Annual Action Plan for the year 2004 as approved by the 
Bank prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.07. (a) Upon approval of the corresponding Annual Action Plan by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall: (i) enter into an agreement or amend the existing agreement 
(the Participation Agreement) with each of the corresponding Participating Entities; and 
(ii) enter into an arrangement or amend the existing arrangement (the Participation 
Page  9
-
8
-
Arrangement) with the Participating Agency, as the case may be, all on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and based on the models set forth in the Operational 
Manual, including, inter alia, the obligation of said Participating Entities to assist the 
Borrower in the implementation of the corresponding Annual Action Plan and to follow 
the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Participation Agreement and Participation Arrangement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation 
Agreement or Participation Arrangement or any provision thereof. 
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict among the terms of any Participation Agreement 
or Participation Arrangement, the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than thirty days after the conclusion 
of each semester during the implementation of the Project, starting for the semester which 
begins on January and ends on July, 2004, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of 
such scope and in such detail, based on the Performance Indicators, as the Bank shall 
reasonably request with respect to the progress made in carrying out the Project during 
the semester immediately preceding the date of presentation of such report. 
 
Section 3.09. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than February of each year of 
Project implementation, starting in January 2005, review jointly with the Bank the 
progress made in:  (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the 
Project, based on the relevant report referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As part of the annual review to be held not later than February 28, 2006, 
the Borrower shall carry out with the Bank a Project implementation mid-term review of 
such scope as set forth in the Implementation Letter. 
 
Section 3.10. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
make available an amount equivalent to three million Dollars 
($3,000,000) as counterpart funds for the Project for each year during Project 
implementation; and  
 
(b) 
to that effect, establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of 
the Project, an account in BCRD, with an initial deposit of one million five hundred 
thousand Dollars ($1,500,000) equivalent. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 3.11. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
enter into an agreement with PAHO, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including those provisions related to eligibility of the Bank’s 
member countries as provided in paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines referred to in Part A of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the PAHO Agreement), for the purchase of 
vaccines and related supplies for the Project, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank, by PAHO on behalf of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations, under the PAHO 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  11
-
10
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
Page  12
-
11
-
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Law No. 42-01 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect 
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry 
out the Project or perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Law No. 87-01 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect 
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry 
out the Project or perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect; 
 
(b) 
that the PCU has been properly staffed as set forth in Section 3.05 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
that financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been established and become operational; 
and  
 
(d) 
the Bank has been furnished with documentary evidence, satisfactory to 
it, confirming the deposit of the funds referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement. 
Page  13
-
12
-
Section 6.02. The date September 25, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Technical Secretary of the Presidency of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Avenida México 
 
Santo Domingo, República Dominicana 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(809) 695-8432 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Jesús Feris Iglesias 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) Works 
5,680,000 
58% 
 
(2) Goods 
7,550,000 
70% 
 
(3) 
Vaccines and  
 
related supplies 
390,000 
80% until expenditures 
 
under this category have 
 
reached an amount  
 
equivalent to 
 
US$240,000, and 60% 
 
thereafter 
 
(4) Consultants' 
services 
 
15,580,000 
78% 
 (including 
audits) 
 and 
training 
 
 
 
(5) 
Incremental 
500,000 
50% until expenditures 
 
Operating Costs 
 
under this category have 
 
reached an amount 
 
equivalent to  
 
US$300,000, and 30% 
 
thereafter 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
- 0 - 
Amount due under 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(7) 
Front-end fee 
300,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
_________
TOTAL 30,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable travel costs and per diem of trainees, rental of training facilities and 
equipment, and training materials; and  
 
(d) 
the term “operating costs” means the non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the daily operation of the PCU, maintenance 
of equipment and vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, supplies and 
materials and domestic travel and per diem of PCU staff, which expenditures would not 
have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) unless the PAHO 
Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$3,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (4) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after May 5, 2003. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure (under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower) for: 
 
(a) 
works under contracts which are not subject to prior review pursuant to 
Part D.2.of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
goods under contracts which are not subject to prior review pursuant to 
Part D.2.of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
 
(d) 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; 
 
(e) 
training; and  
 
(f) operating 
costs. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) reduce child mortality, improve maternal 
health, and contribute to eradicate extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from 
financial loss due to ill health and disability; and (b) support the implementation of the 
Borrower’s health sector reform legislation. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Health Services Coverage Extension
Extend the coverage of the Basic Health Plan to the poorest and most vulnerable 
population, focusing on reducing child and maternal mortality, including: 
 
1. 
Extending health care coverage in selected priority regions (as detailed in the 
Operational Manual) using the national health insurance financing mechanism to deliver 
a
set of essential health services. 
 
2. 
Strengthening primary, secondary and tertiary level health facilites in five 
selected regions, including improving the quality of medical services provided and of the 
referral system among said levels and health networks, through the provision of technical 
assistance and training. 
 
3. 
Improving medical care wastes handling and disposal in participating health 
facilities, including: (a) updating of a manual to address proper handling and disposal of 
medical wastes; (b) rehabilitation of infrastructure and the installation of equipment in the 
main local hospitals for the disposal of medical wastes; (c) establishing of waste 
management commissions in main local hospitals; and (d) training of health personnel in 
the application of standards to protect patients, health workers, and the community. 
 
4. 
Applying national norms to improve the infrastructure and technological capacity 
of selected health facilities. 
 
5. 
Developing integrated and decentralized health care networks at the regional 
levels as provided in Law 42-01 and Law 87-01. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Part B:
Health Sector Reform Legislation
Provision of support for the implementation of Law 42-01 and Law 87-01 
through the development of the necessary regulatory frameworks, organizational 
structures, financial instruments, training programs and information systems; including: 
 
1. 
Strengthening the implementation of a universal family insurance system; 
 
2. 
developing a public/private health services providers system; 
 
3. 
separating financing from the provision of health care services; 
 
4. 
gradually implementing a comprehensive basic health plan for all Dominicans 
irrespective of their socio-economic conditions and insurance status; 
 
5. 
restructuring the heath providers and health personnel payment system; 
 
6. 
designing and implementing a plan to de-concentrate health sector decision-
making by transferring technical and administrative tasks from the central level to lower 
levels, said plan to include the strengthening of lower level institutions; 
 
7. 
designing a regulatory and contractual framework for managing and supervising 
decentralized health networks; 
 
8. 
designing and implementing a training program to increase the management 
capacity of the managers of health network facilities and regulatory entities (central, 
regional and provincial);  
 
9. 
implementing and consolidating health management information systems; and  
 
10. 
designing and implementing a quality assurance system, including, institution-
specific quality enhancement plans and accreditation and licensing of health care 
providers to raise the quality of services.
 
Part C:
Essential Public Health Functions
Improvement of selected public health functions to promote and protect the 
health of the population through: 
 
1. 
Designing and implementing: (a) a revamped national health surveillance system 
to assess public health risks, identify disease patterns, and make decisions on protection, 
and prevention; and (b) a ten-year national strategic plan proposal for gradual build up 
and consolidation of the Borrower’s national health system. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s: (a) National Public Health 
Laboratory; (b) cold storage facilities (cold chain); and (c) Laboratory Department and 
Blood Banks, as well as laboratory facilities for surveillance of food and water safety and 
clean air standards. 
 
3. 
Designing and implementing a pharmaceutical surveillance system, including 
processes for approving and registering new drugs, for monitoring market, marketing, 
pricing and distribution of drugs, as well as for promoting the rational prescription and 
use of drugs. 
 
4. 
Carrying out of studies for the design and preparation of proposals on: (a) 
support and strengthening of the Borrower’s drug regulatory authorities and pharmacy 
faculties at public and private universities, including the design of related time and cost 
tables; (b) training for physicians, pharmacists and nurses, including training on 
pharmaco-epidemiology and pharmaco-surveillance; (c) medical and health professional 
education; and (d) relocation of the Borrower’s National Forensic Pathology Institute.
 
Part D
:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Establishment of a system to monitor and evaluate Project implementation, 
including: 
 
1. 
Designing and implementing an information, monitoring and evaluation system 
for Project implementation, including, the carrying out of studies required to assess the 
progress in Project implementation and follow-up; and 
 
2. 
strengthening of the PCU to carry out its obligations under the Project (including 
its financial and procurement responsibilities) through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and equipment (as necessary). 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2008 
4.17% 
 
through October 15, 2019 
 
On April 15, 2020 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
Page  22
-
21
-
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extend practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.  
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount of $4,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount of $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
(c) 
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $4,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vaccines and related supplies, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$600,000, may be procured from PAHO, all in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Part 
B.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for 
Page  25
-
24
-
works to be awarded under Part C.1. of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  26
-
25
-
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants, as approved by the Bank, for tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to 
an aggregate amount not exceeding $7,100,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,250,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,250,000 until the 
Bank has determined, based on the level and frequency of the withdrawals, that a higher 
amount is necessary. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  28
-
27
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  29
-
28
-
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  30
-
29
-
WB77786 
M:\DOMIREPU\745-DO-Second Provincial Health\810-Health Reform APL Loan Agreement (June 3 
CERSS).doc 
June 4, 2003 11:05 AM
 
