Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Rqxwt No. 12551
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWUR PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
NOVEMBER 22, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:          12551
Type: PCR
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II (India)
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Country Exchange Rate
(Yearly Average)
Rupee (Rs)
Exchange Rate Used in the
Staff Appraisal Report                                 Rs. 13/US$
Year                                                   Rupees1US$
1987 (Project Appraisal)                                 12.96
1988 (Loan Approved and Becomes Effective)               13.92
1989                                                     16.23
1990                                                     17.50
1991                                                     22.74
1992 (Loan Cancelled)                                    26.20
Abbreviations
GOI   -     Government of India
GOUP  -     Government of Uttar Pradesh
IBRD  -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDBI  -     Industrial Development Bank of India
LIC   -    Life Insurance Corporation of India
NHPC  -     National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NTPC  -     National Thermal Power Corporation
OFAP  -     Operational and Financial Action Plan
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
PFC   -     Power Finance Corporation
REC   -     Rural Electrification Corporation
SAR   -     Staff Appraisal Report
SEBs  -     State Electricity Boards
U.P.  -     Uttar Pradesh
UPSEB -    Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
Government of India, Government of Uttar Pradesh.
and Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washlngton, D.C. 20433
US.A.
Offite of Director-Gceeral
Operations Evaluation
iMEMORANDUM TO -HE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOkJ AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Report on India
Uttar Pradesh Power Project (Loan 2957-IN)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on India - Uttar Pradesh
Power Project (Loan 2957-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Region. Part II was not
prepared by the Borrower.
This was one of several Bank Projects to a State Electricity Board
(SEB) in India. The US$350.0 million loan was approved in 1988. In the mid-
1980's the Bank had revised its country strategy for the power sector to focus
on those states which were prepared to improve the operational performance and
financial viability of their SEB.   In the end, only US$24.4 million were
disbursed because the loan was canceled for failure to implement key
conditionalities related to these issues.
The project was to alleviate the acute pover shortage suffered by the
state of Uttar Pradesh and to improve the operational and financial performance
of the local SEB.   Despite an Action Plan and a mid-term review,  the
institutional and financial components of the project were not carried out.
Actually, upfront actions were reversed. The PCR concluded that the Bank should
require stronger irreversible upfront institutional and financial recovery
actions before making a loan to a SEB in financial distress.
The PCR gives a candid account of project implementation which was
cut short. Overall, the project is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability
as unlikely, and its institutional impact as negligible.
No audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .    ......  .i
EVALUATION SUM MARY..          .. .                                 ii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                1
Project Identity .1
Project Background .............................         1
Project Objectives....               ....                2
Project Description .                .                   3
Project Design and Organization             .            3
Project Implementation ...............       . ..        4
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation             4
UPSEB's Institutional and Financial
Recovery and Strengthening  ....................       4
Suspension of Disbursements.                             5
Cancellation of the Loan  .........................      6
bank  Performance  ................................      6
Borrower Performance ............7
Performance of Consultants and Contractors               7
Relationship with the Borrower              .            7
Project Documentation and Data             .             7
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.....            9
(This Part was not completed by the Borrower)
PART III  STATISTICAL SUMNARY ........... .......  .. ......... ,0
ATTACHMENT: Paragraph 9 of the Minutes of Negotiations,
dated May 2, 1988, Detailing Upfront Actions
Taken by GOUP and UPSEB. ........       . . . .13
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of t. r official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Rank authorizatin.



-:1ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Uttar Pradesh
Power Project in India, for which Loan 2957-IN in the amount of US$350 million
was approved on June 15, 1988. The Loan1 was made to India, acting by its
President. The Government of India (GOI) was to make available the proceeds
of the loan to the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) as part of Central
assistance to Uttar Pradesh for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOUP was to onlend the loan to the Uttar Pradesh
State Electricity Board (UPSEB)2. GOI was to bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate risks.
Th3 Loan was cancelled on August 28, 1992 - much earlier than the
scheduled original closing date of December 31, 1995 - and the project has not
been completed. This situation results from the fact that GOUP and UPSEB did
not implement the institutional strengthening and financiu  recovery
components of the Action Plan adopted by UPSEB, even though a critical
bencbmark, the rate of return covenant, was revised to give UPSEB and the
project another chance. At the closing date, US$302,951,926.78 were
cancelled, and on November 25, 1992, US$22,674,109.52 (the balance in the
Special Account) were refunded by GOI and cancelled by the Bank as of that
date. Thus, disbursements under the loan were US$24,373,963.70, which India
will reimburse during the period from December 1, 1993 to June 1, 2008.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Part I) was prepared by the
Energy Operations Division, Country Department II (India) of South Asia
Regional Office, and was based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
7048-IN), the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.
The Loan was for 20 years, including five years' grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
2   The loan from GOUP to UPSEB was for 20 years, including five years'
grace, at GOUP's interest rate applicable at the time for its lending
to UPSEB, but not less than 10.25Z per annum.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
The main objectives of the project were to alleviate the acute power
shortage suffered by Uttar Pradesh and the Northern Region and improv.j the
operational and financial performance of the Uttar Pradesh State   Electricity
Board (UPSEB). In a broader sectoral context, the Bank expected that if the
Action Plan approach used under the project was successful, it could be
replicated with other State Electricity Boards (SEBs) that were prepared to
improve, with the support of their respective state governments, their
operational performance and, in particular, their financial viability (Part I,
paras. 3 and 4).
Implementation Experience
Implementation of the physical components of the project started late
because the procurement process took longer than projected and have so far not
been completed because of the cancellation of the Loan (Part I, para. 8).
Implementation of the Action Plan to strengthen UPSEB as an institution and to
improve its finances was not satisfactory (Part I, para. 10).
Results
As the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) and UPSEB were in default
of the institutional strengthening and financial recovery components of the
Action Plan adopted by UPSEB, the Loan was cancelled on August 28, 1992 (Part
I, paras. 10-14).
Findings and Lessons Learned
The major findings of this operation are that:
(i)   although the Bank did require upfront actions by GOUP and UPSEB to
strengthen UPSEB as an institution and to put UPSEB's finances in
order, these actions were not irreversible and GOUP avoided taking
the necessary steps to support the institutional and financial
recovery of UPSEB (Part I, paras. 3 and 10-14).
(ii) the Bank took a calculated risk in putting its faith in the
successful implementation of an Action Plan, which required many
courageous decisions by UPSEB and by GOUP (Part I, paras. 2 and
15);



- iii -
(iii) the Bank mistook the energetic support by the Chairman of UPSEB at
the tim of appraisal as a sign that the management of UPSEB and
GOUP were capable of sustaining a reform program (Part }, para.
17): and
(iv)  in recognition of the risk it was taking with the Action Plan
approach, the Bank introduced a mid-term review (for the first
time in the power sector in India, and long before the Bank made
such reviews part of the project implementation review process --
Part I, paras. 11 and 15).
The Bank used its remedies flexibly to induce corrective action which,
unfortunately, was in the end unfulfilled. Given the critical need to
improved power supply in Uttar Pradesh, the Bank was reluctant to finally
cancel the loan until all possibilities of assisting in this improvement were
exhausted (Part I, paras. 12-15).
Other important findings ares
(a)   the Action Plan and the mid-term review approach was an effective
instrument to detect deficiencies in the progress toward attaining
the objectives of the project, particularly in the institutional
and financial areas, and its use should be generalized (Part I,
paras. 11 and 16);
(b)   the baseline data about the resettlement and rehabilitation
requirements for the Srinagar dam and hydropower project should
have been more complete (Part I, para. 9).
The major lessons to be learned from this unsuccessful operation are
that the Bank should;
(i)   require stronger irreversible upfront institutional and financial
recovery actions from the Borrower and its Implementing Agency
before making a loan to an SEB under the existing conditions of
ownership and institutional framework to allow the SEB to operate
commercially with the required operational and financial autonomy
(Part I, paras. 2 and 10);
(ii)  require more detailed and realistic baseline data on
rehabilitation and resettlement requirements (Part I, para. 9);
and
(iii) use its remedies (suspension and subsequent threat of
cancellation) flexibly to induce corrective action. In this case,
although ultimately unsuccessful, the threat of cancellation did
assist COUP in pushing through a tariff increase which,
unfortunately, was subsequently partly rescinded. At the time the
Loan was cancelled, UPSEB's financial situation was slightly
better because upon Bank's recommendations and threat of
cancellation, its tariffs had been adjusted, albeit insufficient
to comply with the Loan convenants (Part IS paras. 12-15).  The
Bank's willingness to use its remedies can incite other
Implementing agencies (particularly SEBs) to take actions to
improve their institutional, operational and financial performance
in order to avoid the cancellation of the Bank loans to them.



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name ,       Uttar Pradesh Power Project
Loan Number           2957-IN
RVP Unit        s     South Asia Region
Country               India
Sector               Energy
Sub-sector     :    Power
Project Background
1.       In India, the responsibility for electricity supply is shared
constitutionally between the Government of India (GOI) and the states.   The
Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 (the Act) created the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs) and entrusted the state governments and the boards with primary
responsibility for public power supply. Between 1960 and 1980, power demand
in India grew twice as fast as the economy, and the generating capacity
increased almost five-fold from about 5,600 MW to about 32,000 MW. Yet, for
the entire period the country faced power shortages, frequent power
interruptions, wide variations in system frequency, and large drops in voltage
at the consumer level because the SEBs could not fulfill their
responsibilities. Though set up as autonomous bodies, the SEBs have been
under the stringent control of their state governments in vital matters such
as changes to tariffs and tariff structure, with the result that they have not
developed commercial and financial discipline, and their financial performance
generally has been poor, to the extent of depending on the state governments
for operational subsidies.
2.       Beginning in the mid-1980s, the Bank attempted to improve the
performance of the SEBs by direct involvement at the state level with those
SEBs whose state governments were prepared to improve the operational
performances and financial viabilities of their respective SEBs. Loan 2957-IN
for the Uttar Pradesh Power Project was made under this strategy. UPSEB was
the largest and probably the weakest of the SEBs. The weakness of UPSEB
management and limits of GOI's influence on the state governments and SEBs
were underlined in the SAR. The Bank took the risk of making a loan to UPSEB
on the premise, still valid today, that even a very small improvement in
UPSEB's performance would have a major impact in the sector as a whole. In
addition, it was considered that if this operation succeeded in introducing
improvements in UPSEB, the experiment would easily be replicable to other
SEBs.
3.       In view of the failure experienced by the Bank in India and elsewhere
in having conditions tied to the meeting of certain performance indicators
(such as rate of return, transmission and distribution losses, months
receivables, etc.) the Bank decided to focus on the implementation of actions
that were expected to enable the utility to meet those targets. The idea was



-2-
-that if the utility implements the actions, the Bank considers it to be in
compliance even if the target expected is not reached. This recognizes that
there are many factors affecting the attainment of a performanc' target and
that it is more important to ensure that the botrower demonstrates its
willingness to take corrective actions. Therefore, only one major measurable
financial covenant (the financial rate of return covenant as defined under the
Act) was included in the legal agreements and GOUP and UPSEB agreed to
implement an Action Plan for the institutional strengthening and financial
recovery of UPSEB.  The Plan was comprehensive and provided a detailed
timeframe for each family of actions. It was prepared in close cooperation
between the Bank, GOI, GOUP and UPSEB. Prior to and during appraisal, GOUP
and UPSEB took some dctions to improve UPSEe*. But they eventually proved
insufficient to put UPSEB on a sound institutional and financial basis;
moreover they were not irreversible.
Pret Obiectives
4.       The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)   alleviate the acute power shortage suffered by Uttar Pradesh and
the Northern Region4;
(b)  develop economic hydr6 resources for power generation;
(c)   improve the ouLput efficiency of existing thermal power stations;
(d)   introduce the new technology of fluidized bed boilers to Indian
utilities;
(e)   reduce system losses; and
(f)   improve the operational and financial performance of UPSEB.-
a UPSEB hired consultants to draft a corporate plan, prepare a
financial recovery program, design a modern management information
system, advise on risk management, design and implement an asset
management system, and prepare power distribution master plans for
the cities of Kanpur (the largest in Uttar Pradesh) and Varanasi.
During the preparation of the said master plans, emphasis was given
to improve and strengthen metering to ensure better control of losses
and monitoring of revenue collection.
4   The Northern Region is formed of the generation and transmission
facilities of the state-owned electricity utilities of Uttar Pradesh,
Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab, and Jammu & Kashmir,
and Union Territories of Chandigarh and Delhi. Various power plants
owned and operated by GOI-owned entities such as NTPC and NHPC are
also connected to this regional system.



-3-
Project Description
5.       The project included the following components:
(a)   construction of a 350 MW hydropower station near Srinagar,
including a 70 meter high and 200 meter long concrete gravity dam.
intake structures, a sedimentation basin, a five-km long channel,
an outdoor powerhouse with six 55 MW generating units, and
associated infrastructure and auxiliaries;
(b)   resettlement, rehabilitation, and compensatory afforestation
measures associated with (a);
(c) rehabilitation of the 90 MW Harduaganj 'A" thermal power station,
including installation of two fluidized bed boilers of 160 t/hr of
steam each and modernization of the coal and ash handling systems
and electrical auxiliaries;
(d)   reinforcement of the coal handling system at the 1,000 MS Obra 'B3
thermal power station, including the installation of an additional
handling system of 1,000 t/hr of coal capacity and the acquisition
of 220 wagons for the transporting coal from the coal mine;
(e)   construction of about 350 km of single circuit 400 kV lines, 80 km
of single circuit 220 kV lines, and associated substations with an
additional 1,000 MVA transformer capacity and associated
telecommunication facilities for the evacuation and distribution
of additional generated power;
(f)   installation of around 2,000 energy meters and maximum load
indicators on 33 kV and 11 kV feeders; and
(g)   consulting services and training for execution of the project, ant
improvement of the organization and performance of the utility
along the lines specified in an Action Plan (para. 3).
Project Design and Organization
6.       The engineering of the Srinagar hydroelectric scheme was carried out
by UPSEB and the Uttar Pradesh Irrigation Department (UPID) and was reviewed
by the Central Water Authority and Central Electricity Authority of GOI. An
independent Panel of Expert was appointed to-review the design and
specifications and advise UPSEB. The Panel met several times in 1988 and
1989. Supervision of activities were carried out by UPID and UPSEB's staff at
Dehra Dun, near the project site. The specifications for the rehabilitation
of Obra "B thermal power plant were prepared by UPSEB with the assistance of
consultants. UPSEB appointed foreign consultants for the design and
preparation of the technical specifications for the rehabilitation of the
Harduaganj 'Al power station. Consultants' works were coordinated by UPSEB's
central thermal power plants department. The design and engineering of the
transmission and distribution facilities were carried out by UPSEB's central
departments in Lucknow.



-4-
Project ImPlementation
7.       Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up.  Loan 2957-IN was approved
on June 15, 1988; the Loan and Project Agreements were signed on July 27,
1988. The authorization and ratification of the Loan Agreement by Uttar
Pradesh was a condition for effectiveness. The loan was declared effective on
September 22, 1988, within the 90-day period.
8.       ImPlementation Process and Procurement.  Implementation of the
physical components of the project started late because the procurement
process took longer than projected. In addition to delays by UPSEB in
preparing the bid documents, delays were caused by the approval of the
contracts by the various departments and ministries of GOUP and GOI. By the
time the disbursements were suspended in April 1991 (two years and nine months
after loan approval), most of the-major contracts were awarded, including the
contracts for the Srinagar dam, powerhouse a'd electro-mechanical equipment,
Obra *BO coal handling plant and for various transmission and distribution
equipment, had been awarded. However, UPSEB had not yet selected the
consultants for its training program. ! spite the need for additional
clarifications, procurement and recruitm nt of foreign consultants were
carried out in accordance7 with Bank guidelines.
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
9.       During the appraisal, the Bank accepted GOI's special numeration
which estimated that only 59 families would be affected by the construction of
the Srinagar dam and hydro project. However, supervision missions found out
that the number of families was substantially higher. In February 1991
(almost four years after appraisal), UPSEB had reported that more than 1,050
families would be relocated. Had the project continued, resettlement and
rehabilitation of the people affected by the project would have been a
potential large issue.
UPSEB's Institutional and Financial Recovery and Strengthening
10.      During project preparation, the Bank realized that UPSEB needed
substantial strengthening as its operational, institutional and financial
performance had not been satisfactory. A comprehensive diagnosis of the
organization and all its operations (planning, maintenance, commercial and
financial) of UPSEB was undertaken. The diagnosis which was carried out by
UPSEB staff with the assistance of consultants and in close cooperation with
the Bank and GOUP, resulted in the preparation by UPSEB, of a detailed and
comprehensive Action Plan. The Plan covered actions needed to; (a) improve
operational efficiency; (b) strengthen project management; and (c) begin the
financial recovery of UPSEB. Achievable targets and measures required to
reach them, together with specific deadlines and responsibilities, were
mutually agreed. The Action Plan incl-.;&- not only the responsibilities of
UPSEB but, very importantly, also those of the State, recognizing explicitly
the role played by the state governments in the successful operation of the
SEBs. -Prior to negotiations, GOUP and UPSEB took upfront actions in seven key



-5
areas of the financial recovery program of the Action Plan'. These actions
brought UPSEB to an acceptable financial shape. At negotiations, further
specific commitments were made -by both GOUP and UPSEB to further introduce
improve the operational efficiency of UPSEB under the Action Plat.. However,
when the Government of Uttar Pradesh changed in 1989, following the state
elections, the new government failed to keep the commitments under the Action
Plan. Although UPSEB took most of the actions it had to take under the Action
Plan, its financial recovery was not sustained because of default by GOUP. An
important financial covenant was that UPSER would achieve a minimum 32
financial rate of return (the minimum set in the Electricity Act) starting in
1990/91, within three years from the approval of the Loan.
11.      In recognition of the risk the Bank was taking with the Action Plan
approach, a mid-term review was introduced (for the first time in the power
sector in India, and long before the Bank made such reviews part of the
project implementation review process). In accordance with the Loan
Agreement, the Bank was to reviei- the progress made by December 31, 1989,
towards implementing the Action Plan and achieving its objectives. Because of
changes in GOUP and UPSEB's management, the review could be carried out only
in May 1990. It concluded that while some modest progress was made in a few
areas, UPSEB was failing in reducing its accounts payables to suppliers,
presenting its financial reports in a timely manner and initiating the
training program. The review also pointed out to the large gap which existed
to complete the financIng plan for the implementation of the Srinagar
hydropower component of the Project, due mainly to GOUP's failure to comply
x th its funding commitments.
suspension of Disbursements
12.      Subsequent communications with 001, GOUP and UPSEB and successive
supervision missions to Uttar Pradesh did not help in improving UPSEB's
financial position which further deteriorated. On April 5, 1991, the Bank
decided to suspend disbursements under the loan, because GOUP and UPSEB were
in violation of the rate of return covenant in Section 4.03(a) and other
requirements of the Action Plan referred to in Section 3.03(a) of the Project
Agreement. However, on April 19, 1991, the Bank informed GOI that it would be
prepared to lift the suspension if: (a) GOUP came up with a revised action
plan which initially, through a substantial increase in tariffs, is sufficient
to raise the rate of return from the minus 8.7Z estimated for 1990/91 to 12 in
1991/92 and with subsequent actions sufficient to achieve 22 in 1992193 and 32
in 19931945 and (b) the said revised plan contained steps to reduce UPSEB's
arrears and debts. It may appear that too much weight was given by the Bank
to the violation of the ROR covenant in the decision to suspend and eventually
to cancel. However, this covenant was the only measurable one and reflected
accurately and immediately GOUP's support (or lack of) to UPSEB. Under the
circumstances, it demonstrated GOUP's failure to comply with its own
responsibilities under the Action Plan.
-A copy of paragraph 9 of the Minutes of Negotiations, dated May 2,
1988, detailing these up-front actions is attached for easy
reference.



13.      On September 12, 1991, the Indian authorities were informed that
unless satisfactory actions were taken by mid-October 1991, the loan would be
cancelled pursuant to the remedies of the Bank under the General Conditions of
the Loan Agreement. In the continuous absence of remedial actions, senior
management's consent for cancelling the loan was obtained in November 27,
1991. Two days later, GOI informed the Bank that they had been informed that
GOUP had endorsed an increase in tariffs. In view of the very difficult power
supply situation in Uttar Pradesh, the Bank opted to give GOUP, UPSEB and the
project another chance, and refrained from cancelling the loan. Repeated
requests by the Bank for clarifications and answers by UPSEB on the category-
wise approvals and new levels of the tariffs, the exact date of their
implementation, their impact on UPSEB's finances and other actions by GOUP and
UPSEB took several months. In mid-June 1992, the Bank obtained confirmation
that UPSEB's tariffs were increased on average by 38X, effective from February
1992.  In addition to the adjustment in tariffs, GOUP agreed to provide state
subsidy to meet the stipulated ROR and devised a plan of action to keep
UPSEB's accounts payable and receivable within the covenanted levels. On June
22, 1992, the Bank concluded that GOUP and UPSEB were substantially in
compliance with the agreements under the Loan and, India's right to withdraw
from the Loan was reinstated in accordance with the Bank's telex of June 24,
1992.
Cancellation of the Loan
14.      A few days earlier than the above date, to encourage the industrial
development in the state and to check the flight of industries, GOUP had
rolled back tariff increases for industries by about 101.- The amount rolled
back was computed as about Re 1.3 billion out of the expected tariff revenues
of RS 25.1 billion. As result, GOUP and UPSEB were no more in compliance with
their commitments under the Loan and Project Agreements. On June 25, 1992,
the Bank informed the authorities to disreg.ard the above telex and requested
to be informed of actions taken by GOUP to make up the shortfall of revenue of
UPSEB due to the roll back in tariff levels. As UPSEB continued to remain in
violation of the rate of return covenant, on July 29, 1992, the Bank informed
GOI, GOUP and UPSEB that failure to meet their obligations was going to result
in the cancellation of the remaining undisbursed balance of the loan in 30
days. Clarifications brought by the authorities were not satisfactory. Thus,
on August 28, 1992, the Bank cancelled the undisbursed amount of
US$302,951,926.78. There was a balance of US$22,674,109.52 in the Special
Account which W0I refunded to the Bank on November 25, 1992, and which was
cancelled effective November 25, 1992. Disbursements under the Loan were
eventually US$24,373,963.70, which India will reimburse during the period
December 1, 1993 to June 1, 2008.
Bank Performance
15.      The major findings of this operation about the Bank's performance are
that the Bank: (i) did require several upfront actions by GOUP and UPSEB to
strengthen UPSEB as an institution and to put UPSEB's finances in order;
however, their effect was not sustainable once GOUP stopped to support the
institution-l and financial recovery of UPSEB; (ii) took a calculated risk in
putting its faith on the successful implementation of an Action Plan, which
required many courageous decisions, although these actions as well as the
remedies had been identified by UPSEB and endorsed by COUP; and, (iii) mistook



-7-
the energetic management of the Chairman of UPSEB at the time of appraisal
as a sign that the management of UPSEB and COUP were capable of sustaining
such high levels of activity, taking the necessary remedial actions and, more
importantly, convincing GOUP of complying with its commitments. The Bank used
its remedies flexibly to indui.e corrective action which, unfortunately, was in
the end unfulfilled. Given the critical need to improved power supply in
Uttar Pradesh, the Bank was reluctant to finally cancel the loan until all
possibilities of assisting in this improvement were exhausted. At the time
the Loan was cancelled, UPSEB's financial situation was slightly better
because upon Bank's recommendations and threat of cancellation, its tariffs
had been adjusted, albeit insufficient to comply with the Loan covenants.
16.      The Action Plan and the mid-term review approach were effective
instruments to detect deficiencies in the progress toward attaining the
objectives of the project, particularly in the institutional and financial
areas. Had the Bank used these instruments in other projects in the power
sector portfolio, it would have detected the deficiencies sufficiently early
and taken appropriate remedies. The Action Plan approach was also the
precursor of the Operational and Financial Action Plan (OFAP) approach
currently used by the Power Finance Corporation (PFC)7.
Borrower Performance
17.      When the Government of Uttar Pradesh and the management of UPSEB
changed in 1989, following the state elections, GOUP and UPSEB failed to
comply with their commitments. However, it should be noted that Uttar Pradesh
suffered political upheaval which forced GOUP to focus on other urgent matters
neglecting its responsibilities toward UPSEB. This project has confirmed how
dependent is the functioning of the SEBs on the support from the States.
During the preparation and appraisal of the project, the Bank had a lot of
support from GOUP and UPSEB. However, when GOUP and the management of UPSEB
changed, institutional continuity was lost particularly at COUP, which did not
comply with its commitments. In addi.ion, GOI, GOUP and UPSEB also failed to
inform the Bank in a timely manner that GOUP and UPSEB had rolled back a major
part of the tariff adjustments upon which the Bank based its assessment before
agreeing to lift the suspension of disbursements.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
18.      At the time of suspenston of disbursements, it was too early to judge
on the performance of consultants and contractors (para. 8).
6   Mr. A.K. Sah was appointed Chairman of UPSEB following a successful
tenure as the Chairman and Managing Director of NTPC. During his
tenure at NTPC the Bank came to know and respect him as an efficient
manager. At the time he was leaving for negotiations he had a severe
stroke. His successors did not measure up to his performance.
7   PFC is supported by Loan 3436-IN for the Power Utilities Efficiency
Improvement Project.



_8-
Relationship with the Borrower
19.      All the difficulties which led to the cancellation of the Loan did
not affect the relationship between GOI and the Bank.
Project Documentation and Data
20.      The project's legal agreements adequately reflected the Bank's
interest in satisfactory execution of the project. The staff appraisal report
was comprehensive, well prepared and provided a useful framework for the Bank
and UPSEB during implementation. The Action Plan (tts scope and the timetable
for actions) was detailed in the SAR. UPSEB regularly submitted Quarterly
Progress Reports for the project. They provided useful data which were used
for review of physical performance of UPSEB. However data to assess UPSEB's
financial performance was obtained separately on an ad hoc basis. Supervision
missions included site visits in addition to review meetings at UPSEB's
corporate office in Lucknow.



-9-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower did not complete Part 11.



- 10 _
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
PART III: STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Related IDA Credit/Bank Loan
Credit/Loan Nr.                              Year of
Title              Purpose                   APproval      Status      Comments
None.
Proiect Timetable
Item                         Planned        Revised         Actual
Appraisal Mission                                           MaylJune 1987
Loan Negotiations                                           April 26-May 2, 1988
Board Approval                                              June 15, 1988
Loan Signature                                              July 27, 1988
Loan Effectiveness                                          September 22, 1988
Loan Closing                 December 31, 1995              August 28, 1992
Completion of Disbursements                                 November 25, 1992



- 11 -
Disbursements (USS million)
(Loan 2957-IN)
Estimated in SAi'             Actual
Bank Fiscal Year                                                     Actual Z of
and Semester      Quarterly   Cumulative  Quarterly   Cumulative  Estimated
FY89
December 31, 1988      25.0         2540      25.3         25.3         101
June 30, 1989           1.5        26.5         -          25.3          95
FY90
December 31, 1989       4.0         30.5        -          25.3          83
June 30, 1990           6.0        36.5        1.3         26.6          73
FY91
December 31, 1990      14.7        51.2       18.9         45.5          89
June 30, 1991          14.8        66.0        1.5         47.0          71
FY92
December 31, 1991      34.3       100.3         -          47.0          47
June 30, 1992          34.3       134.6         -          47.0          35
FY93
December 31, 1992      45.0       179.6      -22.6(*)      24.4(**)
June 30, 1993          50.0       229.6         -
FY94
December 31, 1993      37.2       266.8         -            -
June 30, 1994          30.0       7)6.8         -            -
FY95
December 31, 1994      15.0       311.8         -            -
June 30, 1995          15.0       326.8         -            -
FY96
December 31, 1995      13.2       340.0         - 
June 30, 1996          10.0       350.0         -            -
Original Closing Date: December 31, 1995; disbursements were expected to be
completed during the semester ending June 30, 1996.
(*) The Loan was closed on August 28, 1992 and the undisbursed balance of
US$302,951,926.78 was cancelled as of this date. There was a balance of
US$22,674,109.52 in the Special Account. The balance was refunded by GOI on
November 25, 1992, and was cancelled by the Bank as of this date.
(**) Disbursements under Ln. 2957-IN were US$24,373,963.70, which India will
reimburse during the period from December 1, 1993 to June 1, 2008.



- 12 -
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Staff inputs in carrying out the various tasks through the project cycle
from preparation to completion in FY93 were as follow:
Tasks                                         Input (Staff-weeks)
Project Preparation                                   14.1
Project Appraisal                                     60.7
Loan Negotiations                                     21.0
Loan Processing                                        2.9
Project Supervision                                   60.3
Project Completion Report                              2.0
Total                                                161.0
B. Missions
Month/ Number of  Days       Speciali-  Performance  Type of
Project Cycle  Year    Persons    in Field zation /a  Rating  /b   Problems /c
Preparation     3187       3         4      E;FA;RR
Appraisal     5-6/87       6        20      E;FA;Mgm.-
Post-
Appraisal    10187       5                E;FA;Mgm.
Supervision     9/88       2         3      E;FA
Supervision     5/89       1         2      E
Supervision     7/89       3         2      FA;EC
Supervision   10-11/89    5         10      E;FA;EC;Tr.
Supervision     2/90       2         6      E                3        Def.
Supervision   4-5/90       1         7      FA               3         Def.
Supervision     2/91       1         7      E
/a E: Engineer, PA: Financial Analyst, EC: Economist,
RRs Rehabilitation and Resettlement Expert,
Mgm.: Organization and Management Expert, Tr.: Training Expert
/b 1=No or minor problem; 2=Moderate problem(s); 3=Major problem
/c PR: Procurement problems and delays. I: Implementation delays,
D: Disbursement delays; Def.s Default on Financial Covenants and
Action Plan



- 13 -
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2957-IN)
Paragraph 9 of the Minutes of Negotiations, Dated May 2. 1988,
Detailing Upfront Actions Taken by GOUP and UPSEB
Financial Recovery Program
9.          The Indian delegation indicated that the following actions have
been taken with a view to improving UPSEBIs financial operations:
(a)   Perpetual Loans:  GOUP has confirmed that the outstanding loans
owed by UPSEB to the GOUP as of March 31, 1988, as well as all
future loans granted by GOUP to UPSEB until March 31, 1995, will
be treated as loans in perpetuity and accordingly GOUP will not
recall their payment.
(b)   Offsetting of Accounts:  The Indian delegation confirmed that the
balance of accumulated interest accrued and interest deferred owed
by UPSEB to GOUP as of March 31, 1988 has been waived by GOUP and
UPSEB has withdrawn all claims for rural electrification subsidies
owed by GOUP to UPSEB at that date.
(c)   Collection of Arrears of Electricity Bills (Section P.A. 3.03):
According to the targets established during appraisal, half of the
total amount of the undisputed arrears for electricity bills owed
by GOUP and its agencies (Irrigation Department, Water Works, and
Public Lighting) as of August 31, 1987 has been collected, and the
balance will be recovered by March 31, 1989. Further UPSEB will
take appropriate action to ensure that from April 1, 1989 onwards
the receivables from GOUP and its agencies will not exceed the
equivalent of 60 days' sales. An aggressive program to accelerate
collections from private consumers has alrady been initiated in
March 1988.
(d)   Arrears of Payment to Suppliers:  (i) by June 30, 1988 a program
to eliminate the backlog of payables to major suppliers (NTPC and
Coal India) will be prepared and furnished to the Bank; (ii) by
September 30, 1988 the letter of credit covering purchases of
power from NTPC will be increased from the current level of Rs 110
million to Rs 150 million; and (iii) from April 1, 1989 onwards
UPSEB will maintain letters of credit with all major suppliers of
power for amounts equal to not less than the purchases planned for
the next following month.



_ 14 -
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
(e) Financing of Cap4talized Interest: From April 1, 1988 to March
31, 1995, GOUP will finance, on the same terms as the regular
loans provided by GOUP to UPSEB, the total amounts of capitalized
interest resulting from the application of the accounting norms of
the Government of India.
(f)   Financing of UPSEB's Investment Program:  In addition to financing
capitalized interest, GOUP will provide loans to UPSEB in amount
equal to 802 of the total cost of UPSEB's inivestment program
(including price escalation) less the net loans received by UPSEB
from REC, IJC, IDBI, market borrowings and proceeds from the World
Bank loan. The balance is expected to be met by UPSEB from its
internally generated sources.
(g)   Rural Electrification Subsidies:  To compensate for the losses
incurred in the provision of electricity to rural consumers from
April 1. 1988, GOUP will pay to UPSEB rural electrification
subsidies to the extent of the lowest of the followings
(a)   actual rural electrification subsidies calculated on
the Lasis of the existing formula, i.e. formula on
which it was worked out up to March 31, 1988;
(b)   amount equal to the short-fall between the actual
surplus and the one required to meet the 32 statutory
surplus under the Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948;
and
(c)   amount equivalent to the interest on GOUP loans
charged to operations.



