Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IP-AI k'S557 -/A/
Report No. 7048-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
May 23, 1988
Asia: Country Department IV (India)
Transport and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothodzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00        =   Paisa 100
US$1.00        =   Rs 13.0 a/
Rs 1.0             US$0.077
Rs 1,000,000   =   US$76,923
a/ Currency equivalences are those effective October 1st, 1987,
unless otherwise indicated.
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)              -    1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)            -    1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 35.35 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 M Cubic Meters              =    1 Million cubic meters
1 Hectare (ha)                =    10,000 m2 = 2.471 acres (ac)
1 Kilogram (kg)               -    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 Ton (t)                     -    1 metric ton = 2,200 lbs
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)          =    3.97 British Thermal units (BTU)
1 Kilovolt (kV)               =    1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)       =    1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)               =    1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)         =    1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Horse Power (HP)            =    0.75 kilowatts (kW)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA    -  Central Electricity Authority
CIF    -  Cost Insurance Freight
CWC    -  Central Water Commission
GOI    -  Government of India
GOUP   -  Government of Uttar Pradesh
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -  International Development Association
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB    -  Limited International Bidding
LRMC   -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS    -  Management Information System
NHPC   -  National Hydro Electric Power Corporation
NPP    -  National Power Plan
NREB   -  Northern Region Electricity Board
NTPC   -  National Thermal Power Corporation
ODA    -  Overseas Development Agency
O&M    -  Operation and Maintenance
REB    -  Regional Electricity Board
REC    -  Rural Electrification Curporation
SCADA  -  Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SEB    -  State Electricity Board
UPDI   -  Uttar Pradesh Department of Irrigation
UPSEB  -  Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
Beneficiary's Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           Uttar Pradesh Electricity Board (UPSEB).
Amount:                US$350 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Twenty years, including five years' grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:       Government of India (GOI) to Government of Uttar Pradesh
(GOUP): As part of Central assistance to Uttar Pradesh
for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
GOUP to UPSEB:  US$350 million.  Repayment over
20 years, including 5 years' grace at GOUP's interest
rate applicable at the time for its lending to UPSEB,
but not less than the current rate of 10.25% per annum.
COI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
Project Description:  The project's main objectives are:  (i) to assist in
meeting electricity demand in the State of Uttar Pradesh
through (a) the addition of 330 MW of hydro capacity
at Srinagar on the Alaknanda River; (b) rehabilitation
of the Harduaganj and Obra Thermal Power Stations; and
(c) reinforcement of the State's power transtission
s:stem; and (ii) to effect institutional, operational
and financial improvements in relation to UPSEB through
the provision of consulting services and training.
There are no extraordirary technical risks associated
with the Project. Geological investigations have
confirmed generally good rock formation in the area of
the Srinagar hydro scheme. UPSEB has staff familiar
with works similar to those included in the proposed
Project and consulting support will be provided in
those areas in which the beneficiary lacks
experience.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: 1/
Item                                                 Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ Millions)
Srinagar Hydro Power Station
- Land, environment and resettlement                   5.2         -          5.2
- Civil Works                                         85.9       37.6       123.5
- Electro-mechanical equipment                        33.6        73.0      106.6
- Erection                                            20.6         2.2       22.8
Sub total                                       145.3      112.8       258.1
Harduaganj Thermal Power Station
- Boiler                                               5.9        13.8       19.7
- Coal, fuel oil and ash handling                      4.2         7.4       11.6
- Civil Works and Chimney                              0.5        0.3         0.8
- Electrical auxiliaries                               2.5         2.6        5.1
Sub total                                        13.1       24.1        37.2
Obra Thermal Power Station
- Coal handling system                                10.7        16.9       27.6
- Wagons                                               7.4        4.9        12.3
- Associated civil and auxiliary works                 0.7          -         0.7
Sub total                                        18.8       21.8        40.6
Transmission and Telecommunication Systems            40.3       41.2        81.5
Meters                                                 0.6         2.3        2.9
Training and Consultation Services                     0.8         1.3        2.1
Engineering and Administration                        37.3        -          37.3
Total Base Cost                                256.2       203.5       462.7
Physical Contingencies                                26.3       14.3        40.6
Price Contingencies                                   52.2       39.6        91.8
Total Project Cost                             334.7       257.4       592.1
Interest During Construction                          89.0       73.3       162.3
Total Financing Required                             423.7      330.7       754.4
1/  Including about US$44.5 million in taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
(US$ millions)
Source                         Local       Foreign       Total
IBRD                            92.6        257.4        350.0
GOUP/Cofinancing                168.6        73.3        241.9
UPSEB                           162.5         -          162.5
423.7       330.7        754.4



-.i ii-
Estimated Disbursements:
(UiS$ millions)
Bank FY                FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual                 26.5   10.0   29.5   68.6   95.0   67.2   30.0   23.2
Cumulative Disb.       26.5   36.5   66.0  134.6  229.6  296.8  326.8  350.0
Rate of Return: 11%



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTORAL CONTEXT .................o-.................. sees         1
Commercial Energy Resources   . ............................       1
Electricity Supply and Demand        ...........................   2
Organization of the Power Subsector .....................          3
Finance and Pricing               9.**e.*eoee.* .........          4
Power Subsector Planning .......     ..... o...... .o... . .  .... .  5
Management and Operations ...........................o..           5
GOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector.....soe...  ........         6
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector ..............          8
Bank Group Participation . . . . .. .  ....... .s.s. .....  ........ . ... . . .  10
II.  THE BENEFICIARY ...... o...... o       ........ .-.o...           11
Intronuction  Stafing... ...... . .. ................s...         11
Organization ...........................................          12
Operation and Maintenance .................... ...........        14
Load Dispatch ................ .......... O........               15
Organization of the Financial Functionsooo.o.....o......          16
Accounting antMantnace.         ..................................  16
Internal Controls.........................                        17
Billing and Collections ....................*............ .       17
Materials Management                                              18............. ..................  18
Tariffs  *................................................        18
Insurance        ............ ...................................  19
Taxes     ...................................................     19
Financial Policies and Practices .., .....................        20
Financial Planning e......ooo....ooooe.......o.o.........oo.......oo  21|
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India in
May/June 1987. Mission members were Messrs. E. Linard (Sr. Power Engineer),
A. Mejia (Principal Financial Analyst), W. Jones (Senior Economist),
S. Mukherji (Financial Analyst), M. Gavard (Consultant Engineer), C. Dunnion
(Consultant Organization), and I.P.E. Mathai (Consultant Financial Analyst).
Mr. R. Goodland assisted with environmental and resettlement aspects of the
project and Mr. P. Pease in procurement matters.



-ii-
Page No.
III.  THE PROJECT   .e*ogse*seeee.os....e......oe...... .......                       22
Project Setting .................                                             22
Project Objectives                     ................. .                     23
Project Description .6            ......      ................ ........... .   24
Project Engineering                                          ...*..................   . ..........  24
Studies and Training                             ......0...........            25
Project Implementation and Construction Scheduie ...o.....                     26
International Waterways Aspects   . .........................                  26
Environmental Aspects and Resettlement ..o ................                    27
Project Costs   o ................ .0...*.**....6*... ...                      28
Project Financing  66666666o66o66o.o.. o... .o..........6 ...                  29
Procurement  666666666664o66666ooo66o66...6-6666 ...             * ...         30
Disbursements ooo.ooeo.o..o..*o.....  31
Project Operation ...............................        .............         32
Project Monitoring .......        ..................      .............        32
Project Risks o..o ....o..................... 00..660-000...........           32
IV.  FINANCE ....................0.0060660.0006.0...6       0.0.0. ..**              33
Introd-uction ...o.oo.o..o.o.....o.................o..o........o.ooo..o.33
Historical Financial Performance (1981/82 - 1985/86)  ....                     35
Present Financial Position (1986/87) ...00...............                      38
Financial Recovery Program and Future Financial
Performance (1988/89 - 1994/95) ..o .......0.06000-0                        38
Financing of Investment .............    o..................                   43
Financial Reporting and Monitoring ............. 9.........                    45
Vo  PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION   666...........                    46
Least Cost Analysis  666666666666.66666666.            .. 666666666*6666       46
Internal Economic Rate of Return ...................          ......           47
Justification for Bank Involvement .....             .................         48
VI.*   AGREMENTS AND RECOIMEMDATIONS 66                ................... . . . .   48
Agreemnts   soo.6o 6ooo..eo..oo..6..6....6.. o........ ....a,                48
Reco me ndation .o                    .................................o66...  50



-i.ii-
ANNEXES
1.1 Electricity Generation, Sale & Pattern of Energy Consmption - All India
1.2 Forecast of Regional Power Demand in India, 1987/88 - 1996/97
1.3 Previous Loans and Credits to Indi&n Power Sector (April 30, 1988)
2.1 UPSEB - Action Plan for Overall Improvement in Board Efficiency
2.2 UPSEB - Organization Charts
2.3 UPSEB - Thermal Power Generation Statistics
2.4 UPSEB - Average Electricity Rates in 1987/88
3.1 Detailed Project Description
3.2 Project Implementation Schedule
3.3 Project Costs
3.4 Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
3.5 Schedule of Disbursement
4.1 UPSEB Historical Financial Performance, Financial Projections,
Assumptions Followed, and Monitoring Indicators
4.2 GOI's Method for Computation of the Rate of Return on Fixed Assets
5.1  Electricity Demand and Supply - Northern Region and Uttar Pradesh
5.2 Internal Economic Rate of Raturn
6.i  Related Documents in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 19911



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Commercial Energy Resources
1.01    India's principal commercial energy sources consist of coal, oil,
gas, hydro and nuclear energy. Of the nonrenewable resources, coal is the
most abundant. Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated at slightly more
than 100 billion tons, of which 25 billion are proven. Although reserves are
ample, the coal produced generally is of poor and deteriorating quality. The
high ash content, up to 50%, increases the capital and operating costs of
power stations and has exacerbated problems of coal. transport. GOI's
emphasis on concentrated development of pithead stations helps to alleviate
transport problems but will not reduce the other costs associated with poor
coal quality. Moreover, pithead development will be constrained by pollution
problems and water availability.
1.02    GOI appointed the Fazal Committee to examine the problems of coal
supply to thermal power stations. This committee, which reported in October
1983, made several recommendations affecting all aspects of supply, from coal
preparation to railway operations (para 1.19). Although GOI has accepted
most of these recommendations, it has been slow to implement them. However,
GOI has agreed, under the Coal Mining and Coal Quality Improvement Project
(Loan 2796-IN), to provide the Bank with a timetable for implementing the
Fazal Comimittee recommendations by March 31, 1988.
1.03    Proven and probable petroleum reserves consist of approximately
510 million tons of oil and 390 million toe of natural gas. Despite recent
increases in domestic production, India still imports about one-third of its
oil requirements, which in FY84 cost the equivalent of 40% of its merchandise
exports. With domestic oil production likely to-start declining towards the
end of the decade, exploration for new hydrocarbon resources is of the utmost
importance to India; in this context, the Government has recently invited
the international oil industry into the higher risk, offshore areas to
complement the exploration being undertaken by India's two national oil
companies. At the same time, it has implemented measures, including economic
pricing, to restrain the rapidly growing demand for oil products,
particularly middle distillates. Nevertheless, the oil supply-demand deficit
is likely to increase again over the medium term unless significant new
hydrocarbon resources are brought onstream quickly. In the meantime, some of
the deficit can be reduced by substituting natural gas for liquid petroleum
products. In the past, GOI has limited natural gas to premium markets such
as petrochemicals and fertilizer; however, delays in the construction of gas



-2-
infrastructure have resulted in substantial volumes of gas being flared. The
Bank has encouraged GOI to develop the necessary infrastructure and to allow
3ther economic uses of gas, including power generation. In response, GOI has
begun to invest in pipelines and has recently revised its policy on the use
of gas for power generation (paras 1.19 and 1.20).
1.04    India's hydroelectric potential is equivalent to about 100,000 MW.
At present only 14,000 MW have been developed, 4,700 MW are under
construction, and a further 23,000 MW are being studied for future
develonment. The prominent role of hydro generation in regional least-cost
power development plans has led GOI to emphasize the need to accelerate hydro
development; however, progress has been slow due to the lack of financial
resources in states with the greatest hydro potential, the time required to
resolve water rights and environmental issues, and the limited technical
resources available for the simultaneous preparation of a large number of
hydro schemes. Attempts to address these issues through increased central
sector involvement so far have met with limited success (para 1.10).
1.05    The country's uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program
(8,000 - 10,000 MW), and thorium reserves are enough to support a large fast
breeder program. India currently has 1,095 MW of nuclear power generating
capacity.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.06    In 1986/87, gross power generation in the utilities amounted to
approximately 188,000 GWh from an installed capacity of just over 50,000 MW.
Almost 60% of generation came from coal, 34% from hydro, and the rest from
oil, nuclear energy, and natural gas. Electricity loeses have risen slowly
but steadily over the last few years and now exceed 26% of gross generation.
Station-use, now about 10% of gross generation, has increased because of
deteriorating quality of coal, and system losses have increased because of
the large expansion in very low load density rural electrification together
with otherwise inadequate investment in transmission and distribution
facilities. The Bank has stressed the importance of balanced investment to
reduce system losses and improve service quality and will continue to support
transmission and distribution investments designed to achieve these
objectives.
1.07    Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has grown
approximately twice as fast as total commercial energy consumption and now
accounts for more than 30% of the latter. Even though the power subsector
receives 20-25% of total public investment, electricity supply has not kept
pace with demand and shortages have been prevalent throughout the country.
Total consumption has grown at an average annual rate of 8%, although the
increasing severity of power shortages shows that potential demand has grown
more rapidly. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has forecast demand
growth in the range of 9-10% per year between 1987/88 and 1996/97
(Annex 1.2). However, actual growth will continue to be constrained supply.



-3-
The principal sectoral shares of electricity consumption are: industrial,
57%; agricultural, 18%; and domestic, 13%. Agriculture's share has grown
steadily due to increased electrical irrigation pumping made possible by
rural electrification and encouraged by heavy subsidies.
Organization of the Power Subsector
1.08    The Central and State Governments share the responsibility for
supplying electricity. The Central Government controls the CEA, the National
Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydro-Electric Power
Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC). The
State control of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) and the Regional
Electricity Boards (REBs). CEA is part of the Department of Power within the
Ministry of Energy. NTPC, NHPC and REC are public corporations reporting to
the Department of Power. SEBs were instituted under the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948 (the Act), to promote the development of the power subsector and to
regulate private licensees such as the Tata Electric Companies. Although
SEBs are supposed to be autonomous in managing their day-to-day operations,
in practice they are under the control of State Governments in such matters
as capital investment, tariffs, borrowings, pay scales, and personnel
policies. As a first step towards national integration, the SEBs have been
grouped into five regional systems, each coordinated by an REB. The REB's
coordination responsibilities include overhaul and maintenance programs,
generation schedules, interstate power transfers and concomitant tariffs.
1.09    CEA was created in 1950 to develop a national power policy and to
coordinate the various agencies involved in supplying electricity. It is
formally responsible for vetting investment proposals, providing consulting
support to SEBs, and assisting in the integration of supply systems, training
of personnel, and research and development. However, in its execution of
these responsibilities, CEA has been severely limited by shortages of skilled
staff and other resources. Without any direct responsibility for providing
finance, it has not been able to assume a very positive role in the
development of the subsector. In view of this, GOI formed the Power Finance
Corporation (PFC) in April 1986 to complement CEA in fostering development of
the subsector (para 1.20). However, GOI has been unable to appoint a chief
executive to the PFC and consequently the Corporation has made no material
progress.
1.10    NTPC and NHPC were formed in 1975 to construct and operate large
power stations and associated transmission facilities. They sell bulk power
to the SEBs for distribution. NTPC has had marked succ-Css since the
commissioning of its first unit in 1982. At present, it contributes around
10% of the country's installed capacity and is growing rapidly. In contrast,
NHPC is still struggling to establish a role for itself; the states control
water rights and are reluctant to relinquish hydro sites to the Center. This
has prompted GOI to explore joint ventures with the states to develop hydro
schemes. REC was established in 1969 to coordinate rural electrification and
provide financial and technical expertise for SEB schemes. Currently, REC



-4-
finances more than 70% of the total investment in rural electrification. At
present there is no organization responsible for developing a national
transmission grid, although GOI is contemplating the formation of such a body
(para 1.21).
Finance and Pricing
1.11    Although four SEBs made a piofit in 1984/85, the SEBs as a whole
incurred a combined loss in that ye&r of approximately Rs 11,230 million
(US$935 million) exclusive of subsidies. This corresponds to a return of
2.3X on historically valued net fixed assets before interest and -8.1% after
interest. Internal cash generation, which was equivalent to only about 2.7%
of capital expenditure in 1984/85, has been correspondingly poor. Almost all
SEB capital expenditure is financed by debt -- primarily loans from state
governments. Recognizing the unsatisfactory state of SEB finances, GOI has
amended the Act in April 1985 to require each SEB to earn an annual return of
at least 3% on its historically valued net fixed assets after meeting
operating expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest (GOI does not accept the
principle of revaluation of assets). The Bank supports this initiative by
GOI and has changed the form of its financial covenant to reflect this.
Although the Bank's conventional method of calculation makes the return
specified in the Act, corresponding in some cases to 4 to 6% on revalued
assets appears modest, this return nevertheless represents a very substantial
improvement on past performance. Many SEBs, particularly those of the poorer
states, are experiencing considerable difficulty in achieving this level of
performance.
1.12    Although NTPC's tariffs are approximately equal to its long-run
marginal costs (LRMC), there are deficiencies in its tariff structure. GOI
has agreed to commission, in close cooperation with the Bank, a study to
address these deficiencies. A recent analysis of SEB tariffs suggests that
they are now 60-70% of LRMC, which represents a significant improvement over
their 50% level in 1981. The average ratio will continue to improve as rates
are increased to achieve the stipulated rate of return. However, the
structure of tariffs is unsatisfactory. Tariffs frequently are excessively
complex, and very little has been done through tariffs either to achieve load
management or to selectively tap consumers' willingness to pay, which in many
cases substantially exceeds existing tariff levels. Although they have
espoused energy prices "which reflect true costs" in both their Sixth and
Seventh Plans, GOI and the states continue to resist economic pricing of
power as this conflicts with social and agricultural objectives.
1.13    In lending to individual SEB's, the Bank will continue to address
state-specific programs to improve resource mobili%ation, for example, by
developing financial programs capable at least of achieving the rate of
return specified in the Act. Where higher returns are both feasible and
desirable the Bank will press state governments to use their discretion under
the Act to require a higher rate of return. As far as tariff structure is
concerned, the Bank will continue to require SEBs to carry out tariff studies



-5-
wherever tariff structures appear to be badly distorted, in order to impress
on the relevant authorities the true costs of cross-subsidization. However,
resistance to economic pricing is likely to inhibit progress in pricing
reform (para 1.22).
Power Subsector Planning
1.14    The Bank has consistently encouraged GOI to pursue integrated
planning and coordinated operation of the country's electricity supply
systems. In response, GOI has prepared a set of regional least cost
development plans, published as the National Power Plan (NPP) in 1983.
Although the NPP represented a good first step towards integrated planning,
it needs further refinement and regular updating. In addition, such a plan
can only lead to effective improvements if complemented by measures to bring
about coordinated system operation. At present only the Northern Region is
approaching this. OI is encouraging states to reach the necessary
agreements on operating parameters, but progress is likely to be slow as long
as severe power shortages exist. Even if coordinated intra-regional
operation is achieved, inter-regional transfers will be very difficult
without the use of direct current facilities to overcome problems of
frequency control. The first such facility, a link between Northern and
Western Regions, is a component of the Central Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2283-IN). A second direct current link has been included in the Rihand
Power Transmission Project (Loan 2535-IN). To facilitate further integration
GOI has agreed, under the latter project, to undertake a study of the
long-term development of a national transmission system and to examine
related institutional and commercial issues.
1.15    Substantial disparities exist between the long-term NPP, national
five-year plans, short-term budgets, and actual performance. Due to a lack
of resources, fewer projects have been included in the five-year plans than
in the NPP and, because adequate allowance was not made for escalation and
delays in project implementation, still fewer have been executed. The
resulting power deficit has undermined rational planning by necessitating
rapid expansion of supply rather than long-term least-cost development. For
example, shorter gestation thermal plants have been favored at the expense of
lower cost hydro plants. Furthermore, the power deficit has prompted
overinvestment in captive plant, a second-best measure leading to excessive
use of high value petroleum products for power generation. In addition to
supporting GOI's efforts to increase the supply of power, the Bank will
continue to stress to GO the role of pricing and load management in
eliminating the deficit, and the importance of integrating planning and
pricing.
Management and Operations
1.16    In contrast to the good performance of NTPC, the SEBs' management and
operational capabilities have not kept pace with the expansion of supply. In
general, SEBs have adequately qualified engineering staff but lack



-6-
experienced personnel in financial planning and control. The significant pay
differential between the public and private sectors makes it difficult to
recruit competent staff. Management practices are generally outmoded and
inadequate. Accounts have been maintained principally to track cash receipts
and expenditures, and there has been little use of accounting information for
managerial purposes. Consequently, the Bank has encouraged COI to develop a
new uniform accounting system for SEBs. After initial delays, implementation
is now proceeding. The Bank will continue to support institutional
development programs through lending to individual SEBs.
1.17    The operations of many SEBs are hampered by the poor condition of
their plant and equipment. Factors that have contributed to the poor state
of thermal plant include inadequate maintenance (in part due to capacity
shortages). deficiencies in manufacture, lack of spares, and the poor quality
of coal. In general, these problems have been recognized by the relevant
authorities and corrective steps are being taken. Distribution systems have
suffered from inadequate maintenance, overloading owing to inadequate
investment, and deficiencies in the manufacture of equipment.
Rehabilitation, particularly of thermal plant and distribution networks,
appears to be a very cost-effective way to improve efficiency and augment
system capacity. GOI recently initiated a rehabilitation program for thermal
plant but is less able to effect improvements in distribution. Whenever
appropriate, the Bank will continu' to include rehabilitation components
under its loans.
COI's Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.18    The Five-Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement of GOI's
energy and power policies. Although the formalization of power policy, in
particular, is made difficult by the constitutional arrangement in which
responsibility for power is shared between central and state governments
(para 1.08), the Seventh Plan reflects a broad consensus of the objectives
of energy and power policies. The principal objectives of COI's energy
policy are to: (a) develop energy supplies economically, at a rate
commensurate with growth in the economy and social needs; (b) substitute
indigenous energy resources for imported petroleum wherever this is
ecor.omically feasible; and (c) encourage the rational and efficient use of
energy resources. Power policy is governed by essentially the same
objectives, although GOI's short-term strategy focuses on alleviating the
acute power shortages suffered nationwide. Over the longer term, achieving
least-cost development assumes greater importance. In addition to the
initial steps of its long-term strategy, COI's short-term strategy provides
for a number of specific measures to address power shortages, including:
(a) rehabilitating thermal plant -- a program involving some 30 plants
is currently being implemented (para 1.17);



-7-
(b) accelerating the implementation of ongoing projects -- a recent
reorganization of Governmenr created a new ministry specifically to
monitor and improve the implementation of public sector projects;
(c) adopting a more liberal attitude towards captive generation;
(d) permitting the construction of shorter gestation gas or oil-fired
plants (para 1.03); and
(e) improving the quality and reliability of coal supplies by
implementing the majority of the Fazal Committee's recommendations
(para 1.02).
1.19    GOI's long-term strategy requires a blend of policies designed to
address investment, organizational, institutional and financial issues. The
amount of investment available to the power subsector is limited. The
Seventh Plan allocation is about half the sum sought by the Working Group on
Power, a sum which was itself inadequate to eliminate power shortages.
Long-term investment priorities are:
(a) accelerated hydro development (para 1.04);
(b) an increased proportion of investment in transmission and
distribution (para 1.06);
(c) the formation of a national grid (para 1.14);
(d) coal beneficiation to improve both quality and homogeneity
(para 1.02);
(e) diversification of the modes for transporting coal used in power
generation, such as the introduction of coastal shipping or slurry
pipelines;
(f) diversification of the fuels used for power generation; GOI now
recognizes that gas-fired plant, especially combined cycle, has an
economic role to play in system development (para 1.03); and
(g) steady growth in the development of nuclear power (para 1.05).
1.20    Long-term organizational/institutional and financial issues are more
controversial and GOI still needs clearly defined strategies in these areas.
GOI recognizes the institutional and financial weakness of many of the SEBs
but constitutional constraints limit the rate at which it can bring about
improvement. GOI is making use of the following measures:



-8-
(a) increasing the role of efficient (central sector) institutions,
particularly NTPC (para 1.10);
(b) implementing a uniform system of commercial accounting for all SEBs
(para 1.16);
(c) requiring, through recent amendment of the Act, that SEBs earn a rate
of return of not less than 3% after all expenses and interest (para
1.11), a significantly more stringent financial requirement than
hitherto; and
(d) giving more favorable treatment to private sector proposals for power
generation, particularly when such developments can be demonstrated
to be mobilizing resources that would not otherwise be available to
the public sector.
In addition, as noted, GOI has formed the PFC as a financial intermediary to
serve the subsector (para 1.09). It is expected that funds lent by the PFC
would be attractive to SEBs because, at least in part, they would be
additional to agreed plan outlays. However, loans would be subject to
conditionality designed to improve the efficiency and financial strength of
beneficiaries.
1.lr   GOI recognizes that the development and operation of an integrated
national grid will be difficult to achieve with the present organization of
the subsector. Therefore, GOI is contemplating the formation of a separate
body with responsibility for the grid (para 1.10). Nevertheless, many
commercial and institutional problems remain. As yet, GOI has no strategy
for solving them, although, under the Rihand Power Transmission Project, it
has acknowledged that these problems of grid development need to be addressed
(para 1.14).
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.22    The Bank supports the elements if GOI's strategy identified above but
believes that, while these elements are desirable in themselves, they do not
address all of the serious deficiencies in the subsector. Additional efforts
are needed particularly to address problems in the areas of planning,
pricing/load management, institutional development, and finance. The
prevalent nature of these problems suggests that a sector-wide approach
should be sought. However, the comparative autonomy of the states/SEBs from
the Center makes it difficult to implement such an approach. Except for the
introduction of uniform commercial accounting in SEBs, few improvements at
the state level have been realized through umbrella projects coordinated by
CEA or REC, primarily because these institutions lack control over SEBs.
Consequently, the Bank is changing the mix of its lending away from umbrella
projects towards a more direct involvemsnt with individual SEBs, where
state-specific programs can be designed to address areas of deficiency.



-9-
Initial experience with individual SEBs suggests that the prospects for
improvement are encouraging. Pricing and finance are the most problematic
areas (para 1.11) and the Bank has indicated that it wilL only work with
those SEBs that are prepared to improve their financial performance.
1.23    In parallel with lending to individual SEBs, the Bank proposes
continued support for expansion of the central sector, because:
(a) increased reliance of the states on central sector generation aDpears to
be the best way to encourage decisions at the state level consistent with the
national interest; and (b) a higher proportion of total generation provided
at economic tariffs by the central sector will help to improve tariff levels
for final consumers. The difficulties that COI has experienced in bringing
hydro projects into the central sector mean that NTPC will continue to be the
main vehicle for the Bank's support of the central sector. NTPC's record to
date is impressive. However, it is still far from being a mature institution
and, owing to its rapid development, it will continue to face problems in
which it could benefit from Bank support. In the wider context, the Bank
believes that an institutional review of the power subsector is needed and
should include a review of the organization and functions uf CEA. The Bank
also will pursue with COI the possibility of Bank-financed technical
assistance to improve CEA's capabilities.
1.24    In addition to identifying new aspects of GOI's strategy, it is
appropriate that the Bank also focus on existing aspects of the strategy
where it can do the most to catalyze progress. In this respect, the Bank has
identified the following:
(a) integration of power supply including the formation of the national
grid -- the Bank will continue to support projects such as the
Central and Rihand Power Transmission Projects; the latter will allow
the Bank to be actively involved in studies of long-term transmission
development (para 1.14);
(b) accelerated hydro development -- by broadening lending operations to
encompass individual SEBs, the Bank is able to support hydro projects
and, where Bank funds are a crucial supplement to plan outlays, it is
able to bring about developments that might not otherwise take place;
(c) elements of strategy that involve concerted action by organizations,
both inside and outside the power subsector -- the Bank can
coordinate its own lending operations within Lhe different subsectors
in order to improve intersectoral cooperation. Priority examples
concern improvements in coal quality and transportation, and the use
of natural gas for power generation; and
(d) support of private sector power generation.



-10-
Bank Group Participaticn
1.25    The Bank has made 25 loans (US$4.384 billion) and 17 IDA Credits
(US$2.424 billion) for Indian power projects (Annex 1.3). Twenty-one
projects have been completed: 15 for generation, 4 for transmission, and 2
for rural electrification. Projects currently under implementation include:
11 for generation, 2 of which are hydro, 2 for transmission, 1 for rural
electrification, and the Kerala, Karnataka and National Capital Phase I
Projects which include a mix of generation, transmission and distribution.
With respect to NTPC projects, the first-phase projects at Singrauli, Korba,
and Ramagundam were commissioned on or ahead of schedule and the plants have
been operating at high efficiency. The second-phase extensions at these
sites, the Farakka, the Rihand Power Transmission, and the Combined Cycle
Projects, are proceeding satisfactorily. The Third Rural Electrification
Project, which has suffered significant procurement problems, is about three
years behind schedule.
1.26    Through its participation in the sector in recent years, the Bank
has contributed to the creation and development of NTPC which, with 2,500 MW
commissioned in the last five years and around 3,000 MW under construction,
is becoming a large and efficient generating company by international
standards. The Bank also has assisted one of the few private utilities in
the country, the Tata Electric Companies, in supporting the construction of
the first 500-MW ther;-al unit in India at Trombay. Similarly, the Bank
promoted -- through two transmission projects, the Central and Rihand Power
Transmission Projects -- the introduction of high voltage, direct current
technology. In addition to contributing in a substantive way to the supply
of power, the projects financed by the Bank also have promoted the
development in India of a large public and private manufacturing sector for
the construction of the required equipment (e.g. steam generators,
turbo-generators, auxiliary and transmission equipment). While these
industries still lack the quality and efficiency of their international
counterparts, the competition resulting from international competitive
bidding will encourage further improvements in the quality and technology
employed in the equipment they produce.
1.27    A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project succeeded in
helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission systems to meet
their growing power requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in
these SEBs exceeded the appraisal forecast. However, the audit highlighted
the difficulties of effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a
close working relationship between the Bank and beneficiary SEBs. Another
performance audit, conducted in 1985 for the First and Second Rural
Electrification Projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN), concluded that India's
rural electrification program, of which the projects were a part, has helped
the country to achieve food self-sufficiency, alleviate poverty, and
transform the rural economy. In common with the previous audit, this one



-11-
also emphasized that the Bank should devote resources to deal with the SEBs
individually.
II. THE BENEFICIARY
Introduction
2.01    The principal entity responsible for electricity operation in the
State of Uttar Pradesh is the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board (UPSEB).
UPSEB was organized in 1959 in accordance with the provisions of the
Electricity (Supply) Act, it is wholly owned by the Government of Uttar
Pradesh (COUP) and reports to the State's Secretary of Power. Legally, UPSEB
is an autonomous entity and it enjoys considerable independence in managing
its day-to-day affairs. However, GOUP strongly influences decisions related
to pricing, planning, capital expenditure, and staffing -- a practice which
constrains normal operations. As of March 31, 1987, UPSEB's system had a
total installed capacity of 4,540 MW, of which 3,120 MW was thermal-based and
1,420 MW was hydroelectric-baspd. The system comprised about 16,400 km of
transmission lines and about 280,000 km of distribution lines. It serves
about 2.9 million consumers, of which around 2.0 million are domestic, 0.25
million are commercial, 0.15 million are industrial, 0.06 million are public
lighting, and 0.44 million are agricultural. About 63% of the villages in
the state are electrified and about 45% of the population has access to
electricity. In 1986/87, total UPSEB net generation amounted to 13,642 GWh
which, represents an increase of 22% compared with the result of the previous
year.   In addition, that year UPSEB purchased 3,591 GWh from central
government corporations resulting in a total energy available of 17,233 GWh
and sales of 13,655 GWh; this represented an increase of 15% compared with
the sales of the previous year. The purchase of electricity by UPSEB is
likely to increase in the future with the development of the central sector,
notably NTPC, and the recent creation of other central entities (Theri Hydro
Power Station) and state undertakings (Unchahar Thermal Power Station).
2.02    The proposed Project would be the first direct Bank operation with
UPSEB. During the appraisal of the project, a comprehensive diagnosis of the
organization and operations of UPSEB was undertaken.  The diagnosis resulted
from an extensive exchange of views and discussions with UPSEB's management
and COUP on the areas that would need improvement if UPSEB were to achieve
its objective of providing adequate electricity service to the community at a
reasonable cost. Following the diagnosis, UPSEB formulated an Action Plan,
the main objectives of which were to strengthen the operational management
practices, improve the quality of electricity service and, more importantly,
lay the basis for establishing a strong, autonomous financial entity. The
Action Plan includes the specific actions to be implemented, a timetable, the
targets expected to be achieved, resources needed, and a monitoring system.
It is grouped by actions needed to: (a) improve operational efficiency; (b)
strengthen project management, including adherence to a rolling five-year
priority investment program; and (c) begin the financial recovery of UPSEB.



-12-
The proposed Action Plan is included in Annex  2.1 and its different aspects
are discussed in the following paragraphs. After agreement on the Action
Plan was reached with the Bank, GOUP agreed during negotiations to: (a)
undertake those actions under the Plan that are under its responsibility
(para 6.01(a)); and (b) cause UPSEB to implement the Action Plan in a timely
manner (para 6.02(a)). In the course of supervising the proposed Project,
the Bank intends to monitor the implementation of the Action Plan
(para 3.16). The lack of progress in implementing the Action Plan by
December 31, 1989, would be viewed by the Bank as a serious matter which
could affect future project implementation.
Organization
2.03    UPSEB's Board of Management is responsible for establishing internal
policies. The Board of Management consists of seven official members, of
which five -- the Chairman, Member (Generation), Member (Transmission),
Member (Distribution), and Member (Finance and Accounts) -- serve full-time.
Two secretaries to GOUP (for Finance and Energy) serve part-time as ex
officio members. The current organization of the departments headed by the
respective members and other officers is shown in Annex 2.2 (page 1). As a
result of the organizational diagnosis (para 2.02), UPSEB has incorporated in
the Action Plan (Annex 2.1, 1(a)) a restructuring of its organization. This
reorganization is designed to (a) improve control of critical activities,
such as the construction of new projects and operation of the Board's assets;
(b) facilitate decentralized decision making; and (c) coordinate the planning
functions of the Board which at present are dispersed throughout the
organization (para 2.06). The Board's revised organization chart is
presented in Annex 2.2 (page 2). The main changes are that the managerial
responsibilities for construction, and for operation and maintenance are in
separate departments, a new Member (Corporate Functions) is established with
full responsibilities for planning, and a functional control by the Member
(Finance and Accounts) on the financial aspects of the commercial activities
and of the distribution is introduced. The implementation schedule for the
reorganization will be agreed with the Bank no later than September 30, 1988
(Annex 2.1, 1(a)). The information available to UPSEB management for
decision and control also was considered inadequate. In order to establish
appropriate reporting procedures and streamlined information flows within the
Board, a -iodern management information system (MIS) commensurate with the new
organizational structure has been designed. The system was designed with the
assistance of Tata Consulting Engineers and it will be further developed and
implemented with the introduction of computerization. For this task, UPSEB
will recruit consultants in accordance with terms of reference and a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 2.1, 1(i)).
Personnel and Staffing
2.04     As of March 31, 1987, the total UPSEB staff amounted to around
103,000 persons, of which about 3,000 were employed in central offices,
26,000 in generation and transmission, and the remaining 74,000 in



-13-
distribution. About 4,500 employees are engineers and professionals, 18,000
are technicians, and the remaining 80,500 include technical and clerical
support staff. Present staffing is in excess of normal operational
requirements; as a result, productivity and performance are generally low and
costs of production are high. For example, there are only 28 consumers
served by each employee. Although it is difficult to make a direct
comparison with other utilities because their structure and markets differ,
this ratio is between one-third and one-fifth of that found in utilities with
similar chsracteristics in other developing countries. In addition to
overstaffing, there is a high level of staff mobility due to frequent
rotation within the organization. This mobility hampers development of the
specialization required to run an operation that is becoming increasingly
complex; it also reduces incentives for improving the functioning of
activities under their responsibility. UPSEB's management is aware of the
situation and has maintained, since 1980, strict control on new staff
appointments. Its current practice is to fill vacancies through staff
redeployment rather than recruitment. After it comoletes a human resources
data base (Annex 2.1, 1(h)), UPSEB will undertake a study in order to match
manpower and management requirements for the next five years (1989-1996). In
addition, UPSEB will complete by December 31, 1988 a five-year rolling
training program of its professional staff, implement the program, and review
and update it every year commencing June 30, 1990 (Annex 2.1, 1(h)).
Training
2.05    The training of UPSEB staff is the responsibility of the Director
General cf Training and Human Resources Development. Training is organized
into four training centers. Engineers are trained at the Electricity Staff
Training College at Dehra Dun. Technicians and lower-level, skilled staff
are trained, according to their discipline, at the Thermal Training Institute
at Obra, the Electricity Training Institute at Lucknow, or the Lineman
Training Center at Saharanpur. In addition, UPSEB regularly sends its staff
for specific training in other specialized centers in the country or abroad.
Despite these procedures, training in the fields of distribution planning
(para 2.06) and finance (para 2.22) needs to be strengthened, as does
management development in areas such as planning, financial control,
computerization, and new technologies. Managers need to be brought up to
date with international practice through effective technology transfer. This
could be achieved with visits to other power utilities and the use of "Panels
of Experts" with international exposure to review proposals and new projects.
UPSEB intends to address these training needs in the Action Plan
(Annex 2.1, 2(c)) in association with improving the allocation of human
resources (para 2.04). A training component is included in the proposed
Project (paras 3.05(g) and 3.07).



-14-
Planning
2.06     As mentioned above (para 2.03), the planning activities in UPSEB
are dispersed throughout the organization without adeeuate coordination. The
physical planning function is the responsibility of a Chief Engineer;
distribution planning is decentralized through the Bcard; financial planning
is under Member, Finance and Accounts (para 2.22); and human resources
planning rests with the Secretary of the Board (para 2.04). Physical
planning includes generation, the transmission system, and research and
development; for this task UPSEB is assisted by the computer center of the
Indian Institute of Technology (Kanpur). Distribution planning is handled by
the distribution units (urban and rural) and has not been adequate. As a
result, system additions and reinforcements have been undertake,, essentially
on an ad hoc basis. UPSEB's distribution planning needs to be strengthened
by the introduction of appropriate technology and computerized planning
techniques. For this purpose, in January 1987, UPSEB recruited consultants
from British Electricity International and Merz & McLellan. Under a grant
from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom, the
consultants prepared a Power Distribution Master Plan for Kanpur, the largest
city of the state. When completed, the Kanpur study will also serve as a
basis for introducing standard planning procedures for the distribution
networks. A similar study is being carried out by consultants from Tata
Engineering Company (India) in Varanasi and plans are being prepared for ten
cities in Uttar Pradesh; both are included in the Action Plan (Annex
2.1, 1(f)). The preliminary results of the Kanpur study emphasize that
deficiencies in the metering system, particularly at medium and low voltages,
make estimates of feeder loading inaccurate or hard to obtain. A priority
step in strengthening distribution planning therefore should be to improve
load metering on 33-kV and 11-kV feeders. This would also ensure better
control of losses and monitoring of revenue collection. In response to this,
the proposed Project would include the installation of approximately 2,000
energy meters equipped with maximum load indicator (para 3.05) to monitor
loads on priority 33-kV or 11-kV fee'ders. Corporate planning is at an early
stage and so needs to be developed, particularly in relation to long-term
finance and manpower planning. Annual work planning systems with related
manpower and financial targets are required in order to improve performance
in the operational units. These deficiencies, also mentioned in para 2.03,
are being addressed under the Action Plan.
Operation and Maintenance
2.07     Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of UPSEB's installations is carried
out by the different operational entities that are responsible for each power
station, transmission unit, and distribution area. Each operational entity
is headed by a superintending engineer. Operation and maintenance of the
generation stations often have been hampered by design and manufacturing
deficiencies in the equipment, inadequate maintenance, shortages of spare
parts, and poor coal quality (para 1.01) -- all resulting in low plant
utilization and efficiency (Annex 2.3). However, as a result of improved



-15-
maintenance, the load factor of thermal power stations increased to almost
40% in 1986/87, from 33% in the previous year. These figures are still well
below the average ..f 53.2% estimated for the rest of India, a figure which
itself is low compared to international standards and the almost 801 achieved
by NTPC. In order to achieve further improvements in performance, the
proposed Project would include substantial rehabilitation of two of the
largest UPSEB thermal generation stations (para 3.05). In addition, as part
of the ongoing reorganization (para 2.03), the functions and responsibilities
of plant operation and maintenance would be strengthened. To reflect this,
performance targets are included in the Action Plan (Annex 2.1, 1(c)).
Furthermore, UPSEB will undertake a three-year plan to improve the
utilization and efficiency of its thermal power stations in accordance with a
detailed maintenance progrp-. and implementation schedule, to be agreed with
the Bank no later than December 31, 1988 (Annex 2.1, 1(c)). The operation
and corrective maintenance of the high voltage transmission generally is
satisfactory but would be further monitored and improved (Annex 2.1, l(e)).
Only minimum strengthening and corrective maintenance is being undertaken for
distribution, although these deficiencies are contributing to the high level
of system losses, estimated at around 20.8% of the total available energy.
As a first step in remedying the situation, the Kanpur distribution study
(para 2.06) would help the Board to review and improve operation and
maintenance methods for distribution networks. In addition, programs are
being undertaken to upgrade the low voltage distribution lines in rural areas
and to improve the performance of low voltage metering (Annex 2.1, 1(')).
Load Dispatch
2.08    UPSEB's system is part of the interconnected system of the Northern
Region which includes six states and two union territories of the Northern
Region (Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, and the
Union Territories of Delhi and Chandigarh). In addition to the generation
and transmission facilities managed by each SEB in the region, the Northern
Region also has generating capacity and an extensive transmission system
operated by central sector entities (e.g., NTPC). As of March 31, 1987, the
total installed capacity of the Northern Region was about 13,000 MW. UPSEB
is responsible for load dispatch in the State under coordination provided by
the Northern Region Electricity Board (NREB) load dispatch center near Delhi.
However, UPSEB has neither the facilities nor the procedures to optimize load
dispatch. Telecontrol and communication systems are particularly inadequate,
and this also affects the NREB system operation. To rectify this deficiency
and facilitate integrated operation of the power system in both the state and
the region, modern, compatible communication and load-dispatch facilities
should be established.  As a first step, the proposed Project includes
telecommunication facilities and studies for improving the Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition System (SCADA) for UPSEB and connecting it with
the NREB load dispatch.  The Bank is considering assisting in financing the
expansion and rehabilitation of the transmission system in the Northern
Region.  This latter project includes a component for improving and
coordinating load dispatch throughout the region.



-16-
Organization of the Financial Functions
2.09    The financial and accounting fun:tions in UPSEB are the
responsibility of the Member (Finance and Accounts). He is assisted by three
Controllers of Accounts and by four Chief Accounts Officers, each responsible
for one functional area. The accounting process is performed in 350
accounting units, located all over the state. Accounts are consolidated at
30 zonal accounting offices. The current setup is deficient in that accounts
initially are prepared by junior engineers who are not subordinate to the
divisional accountants. In addition, these divisional accountants report to
Executive Engineers, who frequently are uninterested in financial and
accounting matters. This situation is reflected in the lack of accuracy in
accounts and delays in reporting. Under the Action Plan (Annex 2.1, 3(k)),
UPSEB intends to begin correcting these anomalies by (a) training junior
engineers in accounting; (b) improving the working relations between
construction/ operations and the financial manager; and (c) making executive
engineers, through special training programs, more aware of the linkages
between their operations and the finances of the Board.
Accounting
2.10    In April, 1985, the GOI introduced a new, uniform accounting system
and instructed all SEBs to follow it in the presentation of their accounts
(para 1.16). While several SEBs engaged consultants to assist them in
implementing the new system, UPSEB opted for doing it with its own staff.
The financial statements for 1985/86 were converted to conform with the new
accounting system and the accounts began to be processed under the new system
on April 1, 1986. To this effect, manuals were prepared and staff were given
training. The implementation of the commercial accounting system is
supervised by a small task force under the direction of the Member (Finance
and Accounts). The new system is expected to provide a more informative
presentation of UPSEB's accounts than the previous one. In addition,
following CEA's recent directive, all SEBs shall capitalize interest during
construction, beginning 1986/87.
External Audit
2.11    The Act prescribes that the Comptroller and Auditor General of India
is responsible for auditing the accounts of all SEBs. He discharges this
responsibility through his representative, the Accountant General of Uttar
Pradesh. The quality of the audit reports is acceptable and the reports
include a management letter listing the deficiencies found in the accounts.
Unfortunately, in the past, UPSEB's management has not taken corrective
actions -- the same weaknesses are pointed out year after year. According to
thes Act, the audited accounts and the auditor's report must be submitted to
the State Government within six months of the close of the year. In the
past, UPSEB has delayed submitting the annual financial statements to the
Accountant General and the audited reports accordingly have been finalized



-17-
well after the stipulated deadline. The report for 1985/86, due in
September 30, 1986, was submitted 16 months late. There are several causes
for these delays, in addition to the causes mentioned in pars 2.09.
Operations are too widely dispersed in the state; the communication system is
inadequate; and management holds a very relaxed attitude about complying with
this requirement in a timely way. In addition to the measures included in
the Action Plan and described in para. 2.09, the proposed project includes a
component to improve the communications system of the Board. Finally, as
explained in the following paragraph, through improved internal control
systems included in the Action Plan, UPSEB expects that its management in the
future will be more responsive to comments made by the auditors. During
negotiations, the GOUP agreed to cause UPSEB to furnish to the Bank its
audited accounts together with the Auditor's report within 12 months of the
end of its financial year for 1987/88 and 1988/89, and within nine months
thereafter (para 6.02(b)).
Internal Controls
2.12    Under the current organization one of the four Chief Accounts
Officers reporting to the Member (Finance and Account) is in charge of
Internal Audit. Placing the Internal Auditor within the organizational
structure not only limits the scope of his work to financial auditing but may
restrict the independence needed by the Internal Auditor to properly
discharge his responsibilities. The diagnosis of UPSEB's operations
concluded that many of the weaknesses detected could have been prevented with
a more effective internal control and a more operations-oriented internal
audit. Examples of these deficiencies include excessive inter-unit accounts,
inefficiencies in the operation of generation plants, high transmission and
distribution losses, large arrears in accounts receivable, and poor store
management. UPSEB's management is aware of this situation and in the Action
Plan (Annex 2.1, 3(n)) has agreed to retain by July 31, 1988, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, consultants to review the internal audit
activities in order to improve their effectiveness and expand their coverage
of the Board's operations.
Billing and Collections
2.13    As noted in paragraph 2.01, UPSEB serves 2.9 million customers, of
whom about 70% are domestic, 16% are agricultural (pumps), 13% are commercial
and industrial, and the remaining are public lighting, water works, etc.
Meters are read and bills prepared on a monthly basis. Billing for 90% of
the consumers is computerized through private contractors. Billing for the
rest, comprising large consumers, is prepared manually. Although no specific
study has been undertaken, there is evidence that a large number of the 2.5
million meters in use are not working properly. The Auditor also has pointed
out some deficiencies in the recording of sales and collections. Accounts
receivable at the end of 1986/87 were equivalent to almost four months of
billings. This is on the high side, considering that consumers are allowed
only 15 days for payment after receiving the bill. Because no aging



-18-
analysis is prepared, it is difficult to make a proper evaluation of this
situation. The absence of an evaluation, in turn, prevents effective
focussing of the effort to improve collections. Notwithstanding, a large
portion of the arrears is estimated to be related to government agencies; for
these customers receivables represent about ten months of billing. COUP and
UPSEB recently took action to correct this situation .para 4.08(c)).
However, at least two other problems remain under the existing organization.
First, headquarters does not appear to be very effective in promoting better
performance in billing and collections by field offices. Second, there is
inadequate coordination between Distribution and Finance. The reorganization
of the distribution activities, as described in the Action Plan
(Annex 2.1, 1(a)) is expected to rectify both problems. To ensure that these
improvements materialize, the Action Plan includes the preparation of a
program of measures and procedures and an implementation schedula to improve
the billing and collections system. The target under the Plan is to reduce
the receivables for electricity sold to a maximum of 70 days by March 31,
1991. This program will be agreed with the Bank before September 30, 1988,
and reviewed on an annual basis (Annex 2.1, 3(c)).
Materials Management
2.14    The Materials Management Department for distribution is headed by a
Chief Engineer reporting to the Member (Distribution). Under the current
reorganization of the Distribution function, procurement of materials has
been decentralized to field units, except for major components which remain
under the direct responsibility of the above-mentioned Chief Engineer.
Deficiencies have been detected in the accounting practices followed and
internal controls need to be strengthened. In addition, despite the large
investment in inventories traditionally held by UPSEB, the untimely supply of
required spares has been detected as a major cause of the poor maintenance of
its physical plant. This situation reveals the priority need to modernize
UPSEB's material management operations, including the computerization of its
stores. As indicated in the Action Plan (Annex 2.1, 3(e)), UPSEB will retain
consultants to help improve its materials management practices.
Fixed Assets Management
2.15    The existing register of fixed assets is incomplete.  As a result,
depreciation charges have to be estimated without a proper breakdown of
assets, and accurate information about work in progress is difficult to
obtain. UPSEB has recruited consultants to design and implement an asset
management system. In addition, to provide management with more accurate
information for decision making, consultants also have been hired to prepare
a valuation of the Board's fixed assets.
Tariffs
2.16    The Act grants the SEBs the power to adjust their tariffs as required
in order to enable them to meAt the minimum 3% rate of return (after interest



-19-
payment) performance target (para 1.11). However, in practice, tariff
adjustment is a highly politicized issue and state governments are reluctant
to delegate such responsibility to the management of their utilities. In the
case of UPSEB, the situation is exacerbated by the fact that about one-third
of its sales are made to customers in the rural areas who are organized in
powerful political groups. This explains the current tariff structure which
heavily subsidizes rural consumers.
2.17    UPSEB adjusted its electricity rates in 1986.  The adjustment was
based on a study prepared by a committee comprising outside experts supported
by UPSEB's staff. A summary of these rates is presented in Annex 2.4. The
committee considered several factors in making its decisions, including an
estimate of the marginal cost of providing electricity. However,
socio-political realities prevented the implementation of tariffs aimed at
the full recovery of economic costs, particularly for agricultural consumers.
Although the rates implemented for that group were only 60% of the level
recommended by the committee, as a result of serious political unrest, the
rates had to be rolled back to their original level. According to the
Committee's estimates, the rates are set at- -&.vt 60% of the marginal cost.
UPSEB's current average rate of 69.8 paisa/'th  ; among the highest in the
country.  As indicated above, it contains a iu;'Fantial cross-subsidy in
favor of agricultural consumers.  UPSEB's tai- l. incorporates a clause that
allows the full recovery from consumers of any increase in the cost of fuel
and electricity purchased. This recovery is accomplished through a surcharge
applied only to the larger consumers, which represent about 45% of the total
energy sold. This concentration on larger consumers further distorts an
already unbalanced tariff structure. It is generally recognized that it is
not feasible to introduce adjustments in UPSEB's tariff structure in the
immediate future. However, to support the next tariff increase, projected
for 1990/91 (para 4.08(a)), an analysis of the cost of providing electricity
to the different groups of consumers is necessary. Under the Action Plan,
UPSEB will retain consultants before June 1989, to determine the cost of
service to each group of consumers. The consultants will be selected under
terms and conditions to be agreed with the Bank. UPSEB will use the
information from the study to rationalize its tariff structure. (Annex
2.1, 3(o)).
Insurance
2.18    Assets mortgaged to the Life Insurance Corporation of India as
collateral for loans are customarily insured against the risks of fire and
explosion. These assets comprise most of the large generating plants. UPSEB
recently hired a coniultant to provide advice on risk management and, as a
result, the Board's exposure will be reviewed in the near future.
Taxes
2.19    UPSEB is subject to corporate taxes according to the GOI's corporate
income tax laws. Nonetheless, in practice, the Board has never paid



-20-
corporate taxes because it never reported any taxable income. One factor
contributing to this situation has been the large amount of in'erest accrued
as a result of financing much of UPSEB's needs through debt (para 2.20).
Because corporate taxes are transferred to the Central Government, it has
been the GOUP's policy to avoid such transfers; one way to achieve this is to
keep UPSEB's interest burden high enough to ensure it has no taxable income.
This situation is common to all SEBs and is a major issue in the GOI's
ongoing discussions with the States in regard to rationalizing SEBs' capital
structture.
Financial Policies and Practices
2.20    UPSEB follows the policies estaAlished for it, explicitly or
implicitly, by the Act and by GOUP. COUP's policies in respect of UPSEB are:
(a) UPSEB's capital structure is supposed to be primarily based on debt.
In fact, COUP has made no equity contribution to UPSEB since the
latter was created;
(b) UPSEB is expected to finance at least 20% of its investment from
internally generated funds;
(c) to help finance its investment, UPSEB is expected to obtain loans
from different sources for about another 20%. The balance is
financed by COUP through loans up to a maximum of 60% of the
projects' costs; and
(d) COUP has committed itself to reimburse UPSEB for the cost of
supplying electricity to rural areas.
These policies have contributed to UPSEB's unsatisfactory financial
performance (para 4.03), either because of their inherent weaknesses or as
a result of the way the policies have been implemented. Specific problems
with each policy are noted below:
(a) the principle of financing a utility without any initial capital is
not a sound financial practice; in the case of UPSEB it has resulted
in a very heavy debt service burden;
(b) although UPSEB is expected to finance at least 20Z of its investment
from internally generated funds, GOUP/UPE2B's calculation of the
contribution to construction from internally generated funds is
deficient because it does not take into account, among other things,
the requirements for financing working capital and because the
investment projected excludes price escalation. In actuality,
UPSEB's contribution to construction from internally generated funds
has been negative in the past (Table 4.2);



-21-
(c) although the loans from GOUP are referred to as "perpetual", they are
not formally contracted that way and, accordingly, they may be
callable at any time by GOUP 1/; and
(d) GOUP has not honored its commitment to reimburse UPSEB for the cost
of rural electrification. 1/
2.21    At the same time, under the policies prescribed by the amendment to
the Act (para 1.08), all SEBs should have revenues adequate to generate a
surplus.   After deducting operating expenses and operational interests, this
surplus should not be less than 3% of the value of the Board's historically
valued net fixed assets in operations at the beginning of the year (see
Annex 4.2 for a detailed description).
Financial Planning
2.22    UPSEB uses three main instruments for its financial planning:  the
Annual Resource Exercise, the Budget (or Annual Financial Statement), and
the Cash-Flow Statement. In the Annual Resource Exercise, each December the
Board's investment, operating and maintenance expenditures, resources and
operating targets are revised for the current year and projected for the
subsequent year. The resulting report is submitted to the Planning
Commission. The Budget is very similar to the first instrument, but contains
more details and follows a different format. The Budget is submitted every
year to GOUP. The Cash-Flow Statement, prepared annually for the following
year, allocates cash for different purposes, including monthly amounts for
each project included in the Five-Year Plan. Financial monitoring is done
through monthly reviews of the budget and the presentation to the Board of
some operating indicators, including several covering the financial
performance.
2.23    A major weakness of UPSEB's financial planning is that it only
projects one year ahead. The Board periodically prepar3s, for the Planning
Commission, the investment requirements to be included in the Five-Year Plan.
However, investment figures do not include any provision for price escalation
and do not incorporate a full analysis of how the investment will be
financed. The practice of modern public utilities requires that management
be provided with a longer-term view of the expected performance of the entity
since many decisions have long-term implications. As part of its Action
Plan, UPSEB intends to adopt long-term financial planning techniques on the
basis of a financial model prepared jointly with the Bank. This financial
planning tool will be integrated in the Corporate Plan being developed by
UPSEB (Annex 2.1, 3(m)).
1/ Paras 4.08(b) and 4.08(c) describe the action taken recently by GOUP
to help remedy this situation.



-22-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    Uttar Pradesh has two main indigenous energy resources: coal and
hydroelectric potential.  Coal is found in the southeast of the State, and
hydroelectric potential is found in the northwest.  Important coal fields are
located along the state border with the neighboring states of Madhya Pradesh
and Bihar; these have been developed to supply coal to thermal power stations
installed either by the state utilities or by the central sector (NTPC).
UPSEB has a total of around 3,120 MW of coal-fired thermal capacity and is
planning to double that capacity within the next ten years.  However, the
operation of existing units has been hampered by a number of technical
problems resulting from either deficiencies in equipment design or
inappropriate maintenance. For example, coal handling plants were designed
to handle coal of better quality than the coal actually supplied to the power
stations. The plants therefore are undersized and as a result, plant load
factors have been rather low (para 2.07). To remedy this situation, UPSEB
has embarked on a rehabilitation program which already has succeeded in
increasing the load factor to almost 40% in 1986/87, compared with 33% in the
previous year. The target is to obtain a load factor of 58% by the end of
the decade, and this would represent a satisfactory performance. Part of the
rehabilitation program is included in the proposed Project and involves
replacing four outdated chain grate boilers at Harduaganj 'A' thermal power
station and associJated ancillary installations, and increasing the undersized
coal handling system at the Obra 'B' thermal power station (Map IBRD 19911).
3.02    The River Ganga Basin in the northwestern part of Uttar Pradesh
offers particularly attractive opportunities for hydro development. About
1,100 MW of the potential capacity in the region already has been developed.
As a result of preliminary investigation and ranking of potential sites,
about 1,800 MW is being considered for development in the near future and
almost 3,600 MW as a long-term target. The short-term program includes four
projects under construction: Khara (72 MW), Lakhwar-Vyasi (420 MW),
Manheri Bali (Stage II) (304 MW), and Tehri (1,000 MW). The latter is the
first phase of the largest project on the River Ganga which eventually would
reach an installed capacity of about 2,300 MW and would be financed with
bilateral assistance from the Soviet Union. Three other projects are
advanced enough for construction to begin. One of them, the Srinagar
hydropower scheme (330 MW), is economically attractive and does not present
major problems of implenentation. It would be included in the proposed
Project. Its proposed dam site is located on the Alaknanda River, a
tributary of the River Ganga, upstream of the township of Srinagar and about
110 km upstream of Rishikesh, where the Alaknanda River joins the River
Ganga. The scheme would use a drop of around 70 meters, available between
two other projects (Utyasu, 1,000 MW, upstream, and Kotlibhel, 1,000 MW,
downstream) that would be developed at a later stage.



-23-
3.03    The development of large and concentrated power generation centers at
the two extremities of the state -- thermal in the southeast and hydro in the
northwest -- require an extended high-voltage transmission system in order to
supply the major load centers that are concentrated in the southwest of the
State. In addition, Uttar Pradesh, in common with most other states in
India, has failed to develop its transmission and distribution systems at a
rate commensurate with growth in generation and demand. Consequently, these
systems have become increasingly overloaded, resulting in increased system
losses that recently were estimated at 20.8% of net generation. In order to
alleviate these constraints on the system, the proposed Project would include
reinforcement of the existing grid in addition to the transmission lines
required to evacuate power from the Srinagar station. Furthermore, demand
growth in Kanpur -- the sixth largest city in the country -- and in ten major
towns in the state has strained not only the transmission system but also the
local distribution networks. Therefore, UPSEB needs to develop a long-term
transmission plan, including system operation requirements, and distribution
master plans for major towns in Uttar Pradesh (para 2.06, and Annex 2.1,
l(f)).
Project Objectives
3.04    Uttar Pradesh is one of the largest and most populated states of
India.  It is characterized by a large number of medium-  and small-sized
industries coupled with some of the poorest agricultural areas in the
country. Power is an essential requirement for the development of both
industry and tubewells. In the absence of power, these two consumers are
using less efficient energy sources. Power also promotes the socio-economic
development of urban and rural areas enabling the use of appliances that have
become the basis for community development and housing needs. The main
objectives of the proposed Project therefore are to:
(a) alleviate the acute power shortage suffered by Uttar Pradesh and the
Northern Region (para 1.07);
(b) develop economic hydro resources for power generation (para 1.03);
(c) improve the output efficiency of existing thermal power stations
(para 1.17);
(d) introduce the new technology of fluidized bed boilers to Indian
utilities;
(e) reduce system losses; and
(f) improve the operational and financial performance of UPSEB.



-24-
Project Description
3.05    The proposed Project would include the following components which
are described in detail in Annex 3.1:
(a) construction of a 330 MW hydropower station near Srinagar, including
a 70 meter high and 200 meter long concrete gravity dam, intake
structures, a sedimentation basin, a five-km long channel, an outdoor
powerhouse with six 55 MW generating units, and associated
infrastructure and auxiLiarie:i;
(b) resettlement, rehabilitation, and compensatory afforestation measures
associated with (a);
(c) rehabilitation of the 90 MW Harduaganj 'A' thermal power station,
including installation of two fluidized bed boilers of 160 t/hr of
steam each and modernization of the coal and ash handling systems and
electrical auxiliaries;
(d) reinforcement of the coal handling system at the 1,000 MW Obra 'B'
thermal power station, including the installation of an additional
handling system of 1,000 t/hr of coal capacity and the acquisition
of 220 wagons for the transporting coal from the coal mine;
(e) construction of about 350 kms of single circuit 400-kV lines, 80 kms
of single circuit 220-kV lines, and associated substations with an
additional 1,000 MVA transformer capacity and associated
telecommunication facilities for the evacuation and distribution of
additional generated power;
(f) installation of around 2,000 energy meters and maximum load
indicators on 33-kV and 11-kV feeders; and
(g) consulting services and training for execution of the Project, and
improvement of the organization and performance of the utility along
the lines specified in the Action Plan.
Project Engineering
3.06    The engineering of the Srinagar hydroelectric scheme has reached the
bidding stage. UPSEB and the Uttar Pradesh Irrigation Department (UPID) are
preparing designs and specifications, which would be reviewed by the Central
Water Commission (CWC) and CEA. A panel of experts is being appointed in
order to review the scheme design and specifications and advise UPSEB during
the construction phase. The dam design and waterways are based on
conservative parameters which allow for extreme flood probability and a high
level of sedimentation affecting the Himalaya's rivers. The main design
parameters are based on the results of model tests undertaken at the UPID
hydraulic laboratory at Bahadrabad.  The engineering of most of the



-25-
facilities included in rehabilitation of the Harduaganj and Obra thermal
power stations also has reached the bidding stage. UPSEB, assisted by
consultants, has prepared related designs and specifications. Bidding
documents for the Obra coal handling system were finalized in December 1987,
reviewed by the Bank, and bids have now been invited. Because the proposed
Harduaganj fluidized bed boiler involves new technology not yet familiar to
Indian utilities, a consultant is being recruited to assist in prepaiing the
specifications. The consultant's services would be extended to the project
implementation phase in order to monitor the manufacture, testing, and
commissioning of the boiler. These consulting services are expected to be
required for about 20 man-months; they would be financed under the proposed
project and provided on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Studies and Training
3.07    The Action Plan (Annex 2.1) agreed between the Bank and UPSEB
includes a number of studies and training programs to improve the
organization and technical and financial performance of the Board. The
studies and programs will cover the following tasks:
(a) preparation of job description and management objectives associated
with modifications in the organization (Annex 2.1, l(a));
(b) preparation of a five-year trainirg program, following completion of
a data base on UPSEB human resources and identification of required
skills, expertise, and management development (Annex 2.1, 1(h));
(c) expansion of the MIS to include control in work planning, review of
financial budgeting and actual cost, and computerization of the
system (Annex 2.1, 1(i));
(d) rehabilitation of generating plants and transmission and
telecommunication systems (Annex 2.1, l(c)(e));
(e) development of an association between each major investment in
generation and transmission and a panel of international and local
experts to review project design and specifications and to be
available for advice during implementation (Annex 2.1, 2(d));
(f) development of a distribution master plan for ten major towns in the
State (Annex 2.1, 1(f));
(g) site investigation and preliminary design of future hydroelectric
power projects (Annex 2.1, 2(d));
(h) modernization of materials management system (Annex 2.1, 3(e)); and
(i) reorganization of the Internal Audit Department (Annex 2.1, 3(n)).



-26-
UPSEB will engage consultants in accordance with the timetable included in
the Action Plan under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
Bank would finance the cost ef foreign consultants and experts -- amounting
to an estimate of around 35 man-months -- as well as foreign expenses
incurred by UPSEB for training.
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule
3.08    The Project is expected to be completed over a period of eight years,
although the thermal station rehabilitation components should be commissioned
sooner. The Srinagar hydro-scheme would be implemented by UPSEB, assisted by
UPDI for the supervision of civil works. Preparatory works such as access
roads, camps, etc., are well advanced and will be completed before
commencement of civil works. Environmental and Forest clearances already
have been obtained (para 3.10). If the major civil works and equipment
contracts are awarded by March 1989, the Srinagar power station should be
commissioned by December 1995. A detailed implementation schedule is given
in Annex 3.2. Both UPSEB and UPDI have experience in constructing
hydro-schemes and the Bank is satisfied with their capability to complete the
Srinagar scheme according to the indicated schedule. Past delays in
implementing hydropower projects in the State essentially were caused by
insufficient project preparation and a shortage of funds dffecting both
procurement and construction works. Similar delays this time should be
prevented by Bank involvement with the Project, GOI commitment, and a more
advanced stage of preparation at the time of bidding. UPSEB also would
implement the thermal station rehabilitation components and the transmission
system. Except for the transmission lines associated with the Srinagar
hydro-scheme, the other transmission lines and rehabilitation components are
expected to be completed in just four years and should be commissioned by
mid 1992. The major risks of delay relate to procurement and recruitment
of consultants. In order to minimize these risks, agreement on shortlists of
firms and terms of reference for the recruitment of consultants to carry out
the project were agreed before negotiations. Regarding procurement, general
conditions for the major civil works and equipment contracts were cleared
before negotiations, and tender for the supply and installation of the Obra
coal handling system were invited in April 1988.
International Waterways Aspects
3.09    The Srinagar hydroelectric scheme included in the Project is located
on the Alaknanda River, a tributary of the River Ganga, which flows from
India to Bangladesh. In order to comply with the Bank's procedures regarding
projects on international waterways, a formal notification of the Bank's
intention to assist India to implement the Srinagar hydro scheme was given to
the Government of Bangladesh on December 1, 1987. It was also advised of
its design (for power generation without any diversion of water), its
operation (as a run-of-the-river with daily regulation (para 3.15)), and its
location (some 1,500 km from the border with Bangladesh). The Government of
Bangladesh, while raising some general concerns regarding water sharing of



-27-
the Ganga River flow, has not expressed any substantive objection to the
proposed project following the Bank's notification. Bank staff have
determined that for the reasons stated above, the project will have no
harmful effect on the quantity of water flow into Bangladesh.
Environmental Aspects and Resettlement
3.10     The environmental impact and the resettlement of population
dislocated by the proposed Project are essentially limited to the Srinagar
hydro-scheme component and are not expected to be issues for the following
three reasons. First, the project is largely run-of-river, with little
storage, hence essentially no reservoir. Second, the land area to be
acquired for the dam, submergence area, civil works, etc., totals only
350 hectares, and much of it is already subject to seasonal flooding. Third,
the population density in the catchment is sparse, so only 59 families will
be affected and resettled. Clearances for the hydro scheme already have been
obtained from the Department of Environment and the Department of Forests and
Wildlife. UPSEB is proceeding with land acquisition and possession; both are
scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1988. In order to comply with the
Forests (Conservation) Act, UPSEB is also undertaking compensatory
afforestation of around 65 hectares of forest land that would be submerged.
Accordingly, suitable land has been acquired and UPSEB has engaged the
services of GOUP's Department of Forests to undertake the work, which would
be implemented during a period of three years.  Plans for resettlement of the
population to be displaced take into account the limited availability of land
in the valley, the relatively small number of people involved, and their
preference already expressed during preliminary interviews. UPSEB intends to
provide adequate assistance and/or cash compensation to relocate those ousted
in appropriate accommodations. UPSEB also intends to offer these individuals
training and assistance for jobs in small businesses, industries, or trades
that already exist at Srinagar or are likely to be developed in association
with the proposed Project. UPSEB has completed a detailed plan which was
reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. During negotiations, GOUP
agreed to implement, or to cause the implementaticn of the plan agreed with
the Bank (para 6.01  (b)).  The Bank would regularly monitor its
implementation (para 3.16). In contrast, forest clearance is still to be
required for the forest land needed for the transmission lines included in
the proposed Project. However, the clearance for these lines towards
mid-1989, following completion of the ongoing alignment survey could be
easily accommodated without adversely affecting the pace of project
implementation. Therefore, in order to avoid delay in processing the
project, GOUP agreed during negotiations to cause UPSEB to submit an
application to the appropriate authorities by December 31, 1988, to obtain
clearance required under the Forests (Conservation) Act for the purposes of
installation of 400-kV transmission lines for the evacuation of power from
the Srinagar hydropower station (para 6. 02(c)).



-28-
Project Costs
3.11    Table 3.1 presents a summary of project costs.  The total cost of the
Project including physical and price contingencies (but excluding about
US$44 million in taxes and duties) is estimated to be around US$548 million
equivalent, of which US$257 million (47%) would represent the direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction would add
around US$162 million to the total financing required. The Project costs are
based on prices forecast in December 1987 which were derived from: (a) actual
quotations for the civil works of recently constructed schemes; (b) recent
quotations for works and equipment similar to other project components; and
(c) manufacturers' pro forma quotations. Quantities were obtained from
designs at the tendering stage in the case of the hydro scheme, and at the
feasibility stage in the case of rehabilitation and transmission components.
The costs of consulting services and training are based on an estiriated total
of 480 man-months, of which about 55 man-months are expected to be used by
expatriate experts. In total, an amount just over 8.3% of the base cost has
been assumed for engineering and administration. Physical contingencies of
15% on civil works and 5% on mechanical and electrical equipment have been
allowed, amounting to about 8.9% of the base cost. Physical contingencies
for civil works are in line with the generally advanced status of design, tni
degree of knowledge of the site geology, and the relatively straightforward
nature of the works to be executed. Price contingencies, represent about 18%
of the US dollar value of the base cost (28.4% in Rupees value taking into
account adjustments in the exchange rate).  These contingencies are based on
average expected annual inflation rates of 8% in 1987/88 and 1988/89, 7% in
1989/90, and 6% a year thereafter for local costs, and 4% a year for foreign
costs. Interest during construction has been calculated on the basis of the
Project financing (para 3.12). Annex 3.3 provides detailed estimates of
project costs by type of expenditure and yearly expenditure.



-29-
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
TR-upees Million           (US$ Million)
Srinagar Hydropower Station           1,889   1,464   3,353   145.3   112.8   258.1
Harduaganj Thermal Power Station         170     314      484    13.1    24.1    37.2
Obra Thermal Power Station               244     284      528    18.8    21.8    40.6
Transmission and Telecommunications   524        536   1,060    40.3    41.2    81.5
Metering                                   8      30       38     0.6      2.3      2.9
Training and Consultants                  10      17       27     0.8      1.3      2.1
Engineering and Administration          486      -        486    37.3       -      37.3
Total Base Costs                      3,331   2,645   5,976   256.2   203.5   459.7
Physical Contingencies                342      186      528    26.3    14.3    40.6
Price Contingencies                 1,258      961   2,219    52.2    39.6    91.8
Total Project Costs                   4,931   3,792   8,723   334.7   257.4   592.1 a/
Interest During Construction
Bank                                520   1,063    1,583   35.9    73.3   109.2
Other                               760       -        760    3.9       -     53.1
Total Financing Required              6,211   4,855   11,066  423.7   330.7   754.4
a/ With the exclusion of around US$44.5 million in taxes and duties,
total cost would be about US$548 million.
Project Financing
3.12    The proposed Bank financing for the Project amounts to US$350
million equivalent, representing about 49X of the project's total financing
requirements, net of duties and taxes. This would be equivalent to estimated
foreign costs of US$257 million plus local costs of US$93 million. The
project financing plan is presented in Table 3.2.



-30-
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Source              Local      Foreign    Total          Financing
(Z of Component)
IBRD                 92.6       257.4      350.0           46.4
GOUP/Cofinancing   168.6         73.3      241.9           32.1
UPSEB               162.5          -       162.5           21.5
Subtotal        423.7        330.7      754.4          100.0
The Bank funds would be lent to GOI and onlent to COUP, which in turn agreed
during negotiations to onlend it to UPSEB at the standard interest rate it
charges for loans made to its corporations and agencies, but not less than
the rate of 10.25Z p.a. currently charged, and with a repayment period of
twenty years, including a grace period of five years (para 6.01(c)). The
foreign exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by GOI. UPSEB's
contribution to the financing of the project is consistent with its projected
capacity to produce internally generated funds (Table 4.3). It is expected
that GOI will seek bilateral suppliers' or export credits for equipment or
commercial financing. In the event that cofinancing materializes, and
provided that the procedures are compatible with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement, the Bank would seek to reallocate its anticipated contribution
to other items in the Project, and GOUP's contribution would be reduced
accordingly. Any cost overruns would be financed initially by GOUP, but
would ultimately be borne by UPSEB.
Procurement
3.13    Procurement arrangements for the proposed Project are summarized in
Table 3.3. More specific details, including the procurement time schedule,
are provided in Annex 3.4. All civil works contracts with an estimated cost
of US$15 million equivalent or more and all contracts for supply of goods
with an estimated cost of US$200,000 or more would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB). Certain specialized instruments and
items of equipment available from a limited number of sources would be
subject to limited international bidding (LIB). The estimated cost of these
items is US$0.5 million. All other procurement activities would be carried
out according to local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Foreign firms and major local firms are expected to bid for the main
civil works, for which prequalification procedures would apply, and for most
of the equipment supply and installation contracts. Foreign suppliers will
not be prevented from participating in LCB. About 85% of works and services
for the Project would be procured under ICB, and subject to the Bank's prior



-31-
review. Domestic preference of 152 or the corresponding import duty,
whichever is less, would be applied in comparing bids for equipment contracts
subject to ICB. Domestic preference of 7.5Z would apply to civil works
contracts subject to ICB. Consultants would be selected and engaged in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million) /a
Procurement Method
ICB lb    LCB       Other /c    Total
Srinagar Hydropower Station            293.9      10.6       7.5         312.0
(223.9)                          (223.9)
Harduaganj Thermal Power Station        40.6       1.6                    42.2
(29.0)                            (29.0)
Obra Thermal Power Station              44.4       0.9                    45.3
(31.1)                            (31.1)
Transmission and Telecommunication    81.3        12.7                    94.0
(61.9)                            (61.9)
Meters                                   3.2                               3.2
(2.5)                            (2.5)
Training and Consultants                                     2.7           2.7
(1.6)        (1.6)
Engineering and Administration                     _        48.6          48.6
Total                          463.4      25.8       58.8        548.0
(348.4)              ( 1.6)      (350.0)
/a  Amounts exclude taxes and duties, and figures between brackets indicate
Bank-financed portion.
/b  Including US$0.5 million procured under LIB.
Th  Other: Direct negotiations or not subject to commercial procedures.
Disbursements
3.14    Disbursement of Bank funds would be made against:  (a) 100% of the
CIF (ex-factory, if manufactured in India) cost of equipment and materials
procured under ICB and LIB and 752 of the associated erection costs; (b) 75X
of the cost of civil works subject to ICB; and (c) 100% of the cost of
consultants and training services. To facilitate disbursements, a special
account would be established for the project with an authorized allocation of
US$25.0 million. It is expected that all expenditures fully documented be
reimbursed through this Special Account. Annex 3.5 shows the estimated
disbursements schedule as derived from the construction program, assuming
normal terms for commercial payment. The Bank would agree to finance



-32-
retroactively up to US$2 million of eligible project expenditures after
July 1, 1987 and prior to loan signature, including those expenditures
related to consulting services for project design and specification. The
aggregate disbursement profile for the project given in Annex 3.5 is eight
years and fits closely a blend of standard profiles for hydro, thermal, and
transmission projects. The closing date for the project would be December
31, 1996.
Project Operation
3.15    The Srinagar dam would create a reservoir with a maximum capacity
of around 78 million cubic meters, whereas the storage capacity available for
the plant's operation would be about 9 million cubic meters. This capacity
would provide daily regulation during the low-flow season and would ensure a
run-of-the-river operation of the station during the high-flow season. The
expected annual genleration of the proposed station would be around 1,323 CWh
in an average year, which would result in a plant utilization factor of about
47%. With respect to maintenance of the dam, GOUP agreed, during
negotiations, to cause UPSEB to furnish to the Bank, no later than one-year
before the expected completion of the Srinagar dam, details of the
arrangements for inspecting and maintaining the dam and associated structures
to ensure their continued safety (para 6.02(d)). The proposed rehabilitation
program of the Harduaganj and Obra stations would provide additional
generation of about 181 GWh and 1,900 GWh per year respectively in each
station. This would increase their load factors from 23.5% and 36.8%,
respectively, to 61.0% each.
Project Monitoring
3.16    During negotiations, COUP agreed to cause UPSEB to furnish to the
Bank (i) quarterly progress reports covering physical works, procurement,
consultants' work, costs, disbursements, administrative aspects of the
Project, and the monitoring and evaluation of implementation of the Action
Plan (para 6.02(e)); and (ii) annual reports covering the monitoring and
evaluation of the resettlement and compensatory afforestation plans related
to the Srinagar hydro scheme (para 6.02(f)). The first reports would be due
on September 30, 1988; the latest would be due six months after project
commissioning and would consist of a completion report of the project. In
addition, periodic financial and administrative reports would be submitted,
including actual data and a revised forecast (para 4.13).
Project Risks
3.17     There are no extraordinary technical risks associated with the
Project, as it does not involve any engineering technology which is beyond
the limits of well known practices. The geological information on the
Srinagar hydro scheme is adequate and indicates good conditions.  UPSEB and
UPDI have sufficient staff experienced in supervising and executing most of
the project components, and consultants will be used in all areas in which



-33-
their experience is lacking. The principal risk remains the possibility of
slippage, which could give rise to delayed commissioning of the project
components and loss of revenues. With a program of construction of this
magnitude, there is no guarantee that some delays will not occur. Moreover,
improvements in the organization (para 2.03), particularly the strengthening
of management for new projects, should reduce the likelihood of delays.
Close coordination and supervision will be exercised during constcuction and
careful attention will be given, when placing contracts, to the capability of
manufacturers and contractors for meeting the delivery schedules. The risk
involved in implementing measures to strengthen the institution is that the
management of UPSEB might be changed. So far, UPSEB management has played a
key leadership role in drawing up the Action Plan. While the risk of change
does exist, the Bank has an opportunity to conduct regular reviews with UPSEB
on the progress being made in implementing the Action Plan. These reviews
will allow the Bank to monitor the leadership being provided by UPSEB's
management and recommend changes as appropriate.
IV. FINANCES
Introduction
4.01    UPSEB's past financial performance has been unsatisfactory.  Many
factors have contributed to it, notably the financial policies imposed on it
by COUP (para 2.20), a large rural electrification program combined with the
failure of the GOUP to fulfill its commitment on reimbursement of operating
losses resulting from the rural electrificatior., poor management of assets
reflected in low plant factors and high distribution losses, and costly
delays in completing its capital investments. A discussion of these factors
is presented in para 4.04. However, an accurate assessment of UPSEB's
historical performance and present financial position cannot be readily
obtained from a cursory review of its financial statements. For example,
COUP's reimbursements that are supposed to compensate for the operating cost
of rural electrification are included as operating revenues, although the
Government has never paid them (para 2.20). Since COUP does not pay these
amounts, UPSEB has not been able to service the interest on loans received
from GOUP; nevertheless those interest obligations are charged against
UPSEB's annual income. Although these entries are in accordance with
standard accounting procedures, the net result is to give a distorted picture
of UPSEB's revenue performance. Another example is found in UPSEB's capital
structure. Since its creation, UPSEB has not received any equity
contribution from its sole owner, COUP, and its financial requirements have
been funded solely by borrowings. As a result of the operating losses it has
accumulated over the years, UPSEB now is in the situation of having a
negative net worth. At the same time, the financial statements do not reveal
the important fact that about half of the debt is in the form of loans from
GOUP that COUP does not intend to call and which are often referred to as
"perpetual" loans; these loans could be considered as permanent funds for
UPSEB, akin to equity. Finally, in the balance sheet, an asset is shown



-34-
under the heading of "Inter-unit Balances" which in fact is a backlog of
unallocated operating expenses and capital costs that resulted from
provisional entries.
4.02    GOI, GOUP and UPSEB are fully aware of this situation and eecognize
that transforming UPSEB into a commercially viable electric utility will
require a concerted effort of all the parties involved over a number of
years. The Bank has been requested to support this effort and the proposed
project represents the first step cowards this objective. To this end, the
Bank, working closely with UPSEB's staff, prepared a comprehensive diagnosis
of UPSEB's operations to identify the root causes of the organization's
problems (para 2.02). On the basis of this diagnosis, UPSEB prepared an
Action Plan to begin addressing its priority needs. This Plan includes a
Financial Recovery Program (summarized in para 4.08 and detailed in Annex
2.1) which will gradually improve UPSEB's financial performance; the expected
impact of this program on UPSEB's future finances is presented in para 4.08.
Improvements are observed in almost every area of UPSEB's finances. First,
its increased capacity to generate funds is reflected in: (a) a growing
percentage of its investment being financed with internally generated funds
(from -192% in 1987/88 to more than 30% by the end of the period); (b)
UPSEB's ability to service its debt (from 0.4 in 1987/88 to more than 1.2 by
1988/89). Second, the rate of return or historical assets will improve from
a negative to a positive value as a result of a more efficient operation of
its physical asset. Third, UPSEB's liquidity position will improve because
of better management of its working capital. Fourth, rationalization of its
investment program will avoid spreading its financial resources too thinly
and should contribute to reductions in project completion time. And finally,
its capital structure will improve, following a commitment by GOUP not to
request payment of its loans. Further strengthening of UPSEB's financial
performance would require actions which are at least partially outside its
control. They relate to issues which have an impact more broadly on the
electric power sector and are part of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with GOI.
These include further action to strenghten the capital structure of the SEBs
and address the related disincentives to increase tariffs further as long as
there is a backlog of deferred interests (para 4.08). However, other future
improvements remain under UPSEB's control. They include additional
enhancement of the operational efficiency, and rehabilitation and
strengthening of the generation, transmission and distribution systems.
These elements would contribute to an improved rate of return performance.
In addition, it is imperative that an increasing percentage of the investment
be financed through internal sources in view of: (a) the large investment
required to properLy cover the demand for power for economically productive
uses; and (b) the fiscal limitations of GOI and GOUP. The expectation is that
the Bank could continue supporting UPSEB's recovery and development through
another operation in two or three years to help ensure that these additional
improvements are implemented.



-35-
Historical Financial Performance (1981/82 - 1985/86)
4.03    The main aspects of UPSEB's operating performance between 1981/82 and
1985/86 are shown in Table 4.1, and Annex 4.1 presents UPSEB's consolidated
income statement, balance sheets and sources and applications of funds
statements.
Table 4.1: UPSEB'S OPERATING RESULTS 1981/82 - 1985/86
Average
Growth
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 p.a. (%)
Total Available Energy (GWh)  10,650  12,648  13,239  14,094  14,966    8.8
Losses (Z)                        18.9    18.8    18.2    20.8    20.6
Sales (GWh)                      8,637  10,272  10,828  11,159  11,887    8.3
Average Revenue Rate (ps/kWh)  39.01   42.98   50.14   54.33   54.40    8.5
Net Income (Rs million)            593    -489    -323    -420   -1045
Cumulative Losses (Rs million) 5,030   5,519   5,842   6,262   7,307
Return on  Assets (%)/a            4.0    -3.1    -2.0    -2.5    -6.0
Return on Revalued Assets (%)/b  3.2       3.6      4.9      5.1     3.8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio       0.15    0.17    0.22    0.22    0.04
Debt as Z of Debt + Equity         141      148     155      160     171
Contributtion to Capital
Investment (x)/c              -55.2   -46.1   -57.9   -61.0   -59.0
Current Ratio                     0.48    0.40    0.37    0.37    0.35
/a After interest on historically valued assets as per COI's
regulations; see Annex 4.2 for details.
/b Estimated using proforma calculations based on Bank's guidelines.
T7 On the average investment of previous year, the current year, and the
following year.
4.04    Between 1981/82 and 1985/86, UPSEB's operations were characterized
by: (a) low earning capacity, (b) reliance on debt to finance investment,
(c) poor liquidity, (d) inability to service its debt, and (e) accuimulation
of large inter-unit balances.
(a) Low earning capacity: According to Table 4.1, between 1981/82 and
1985/86 UPSEB showed losses which by the end of 1985/86 had grown
cumulatively to Rs 7.3 bii.ion (about US$583 million). The Board's
internally generated funds were insufficient to service its debt and
the rate of return on historically valued assets (as per GOI's
definition) was negative. The shortage of funds resulted in
inadequate maintenance of the Board's facilities and poor technical
performance (para 2.07). Furthermore, UPSEB's finances have been
adversely affected by the launching of an ambitious Rural



-36-
Electrification Program without proper rationalization of the tariff
structure to ensure recovery of the higher cost of serving rural
consumers. This situation is illustrated by the growing discrepancy
between the percentage of energy purchased by rural consumers and
their contribution to revenue. In 1975/76, rural consumers
represented about 27% of the energy sold and contributed 26% of
revenue earned. By 1984/85 the corresponding figures had
deteriorated to 32% and 17%, respectively. To make things worse,
although GOUP is comrmitted to reimbursing the Board for operating
losses suffered on account of rural electrification activities
(para 2.20), it never made any payment. By the end of 1985/86, the
total amount due to the Board on account of these reimbursements was
more than Rs 12.6 billion (about US$971 million). Finally, during
this period, while operating expenses increased by an average of
16.7% p.a., electricity rates increased by only 8.5% p.a. Apart from
increases in the cost of fuel and in the cost of power purchased,
over which UPSEB has little control, the cost of labor increased by
about 12.5% p.a. Another factor that seriously affects UPSEB's
profitability relates to the large resources accumulated in work in
progress and so remain unproductive during a long period of time. In
the period under consideration these investments represent an amount
almost equal to that of the fixed assets in operation. The root of
this problem lies in the substantial construction delays, due in part
to unrealistic planning of capital investment. Typically this
planning disregards cost escalation and does not incorporate proper
financing plans (para 2.23). As a result, projects are delayed year
after year because of lack of funds, resulting in large cost
overruns.
(b) Financing of Investment: UPSEB's poor earning capacity in the period
under consideration resulted in a total inability to generate funds
to help finance its investment program. Table 4.2 summarizes UPSEB's
actual flow of funds. In effect, it shows that from 1981/82 through
1985/86, the Board had a negative internal cash generation of about
Rs 11.5 billion (about US$887 million). This implies that it had
to find funds to cover that deficit in addition to the amount
required to implement its investment program of about Rs 20.4 billion
(about US$1.6 billion). Having exhausted its borrowing capacity,
UPSEB had to resort to other sources, notably delaying payments to
suppliers and contractors, in order to finance more than one-fourth
of the funds required over the period.
(c) Liquidity Position: Given the financial practices followed by UPSEB,
it is not surprising that its current ratio remained unsatisfactory
during the period. During the past five years (1981/82 to 1985/86),
UPSEB has stretched its current liabilities beyond acceptable levels.
GOUP, on account of interest payable, is by far UPSEB's largest
creditor, followed by Coal India and NTPC (a major Bank borrower). A



-37-
large number of other suppliers and contractors have significant
amounts in bills due.
Table 4.2:  UPSEB's ACTUAL FLOW OF FUNDS - 1981/82-1985/86
(Rs Million)
Income before interest                                     8,780
Add:  Depreciation                         3,121
Consumers Contributions
and deposits                    1,470            4,591
13,371
Less: GOI's reimbursement for Rural
Electrification not received  9,600
Increase in Current Assets         2,385
Net Debt Service                  12,307
Other                                608           24,900
Funds Available for Investment (Deficit)                 (11,529)
Investment Program                                        20,408
Total Financing Required                                   31,937
Financed by:                                                                Z
Borrowings from:  COUP                  14,775
Others                7,763           22,538          70.4
Increase in Current Liabilities                           8,237          25.7
Staff Superannuation Fund                                    870           3.0
Grants                                                       166           0.5
Decrease in Cash                                             126           0.4
31,937         100.0
(d)  Debt Service Coverage:  Like other State governments, COUP follows a
policy that whatever investment in the power sector is not financed
from internal cash generation must be financed from loans. UPSEB has
borrowed significantly from a variety of Indian financial
institutions; the balance of its borrowings has been obtained from
GOUP. While meeting its debt service obligations to all other
lenders, UPSEB has been unable to meet its responsibilities
associated with loans from GOUP. GOUP has never pressed UPSEB for
payment of these obligations because, under the Act, interest on
Government loans are payable only when there is enough operating
surplus to allow such payments. With regard to principal, in
practice COUP has treated these loans as perpetual although that is
not spelled out in the contract documents (para 2.20).  The total of
COUP's loans outstanding as of end 1985/86 was Rs 34.4 billion



-38-
(US$2.6 billion). At that date, UPSEB recorded arrears in interest
payable to COUP of about Rs 8.5 billion (US$657 million); these are
classified as current liabilities. UPSEB will not be able to meet
these arrears in the foreseeable future.
(e)  Inter Unit Balances:  Transaction balances beLween different units
of the Board requiring proper reconciliation had grown from Rs 661
million in 1981/82 to Rs 906 million in 1985/86. This resulted from
a lack of financial discipline and inefficient internal controls.
The artificial assets so built up in this manne-r create distortions
in interpreting the financial statements of the Board.
Present Financial Position (1986/87)
4.05    UPSEB's audited financial statements for 1986/87 are not yet
available. On the basis of preliminary reports, however, it appears that the
tariff increase implemented this year (para 2.17) brought limited relief to
UPSEB's finances. This factor, combined with an increase of 20% in
electricity generated and a new policy of capitalizing interest during
construction, made it possible for UPSEB to present in 1986/87 its first
profit (Rs 618 million) in its recent history as well as earn a rate of
return of 3.3%. Nonetheless, UPSEB still was not able to cover its debt
service or contribute to financing its investment from internal resources.
4.06    A consequence of the financing policies followed in the past
(paras 2.20 and 4.01), is that UPSEB at the end of 1986/87 had a negative net
worth of about Rs 18.9 billion (about US$1.4 billion). Nevertheless, UPSEB's
debt outstanding includes a substantial amount of loans from COUP often
referred to as "perpetual" (para 2.20); if this debt were considered
permanent capital, however, the debt as a percentage of its permanent funds
would become 37%, a satisfactory ratio.
4.07    Similarly, UPSEB's financial practices also are responsible for its
very weak liquidity position, reflected in a current ratio of 0.38 at the
end of 1986/87, in spite of a rather high level of accounts receivable.
This, of course, has affected UPSEB's credit standing and needs to be
corrected.
Financial Recovery Program and Future Financial Performance (1988/89-1994/95)
4.08    As part of its Action Plan, UPSEB committed itself to undertake a
series of measures to begin reversing the deteriorating trend of the past few
years. Those measures have the backing of GOUP and some of them have already
been implemented. It is clear that these actions will only have a gradual
impact on UPSEB's finances. As with the rest of the institutional
restructuring, a sustained effort during a number of years is needed to
introduce long-lasting improvements. In fact, despite the marked improvement
in UPSEB's performance expected from the implementation of the recovery



-39-
program, there is no room for complacency. This has to be seen only as a
first step towards making UPSEB a financially autonomous and commercially
oriented utility. During the period under consideration, UPSEB's fixed
assets in operation will increase threefold, and sales are expected to grow
at a rate of 14% p.a. Table 4.3 summarizes the impact of UPSEB's financing
strategy described *n para 4.11, combined with the implementation of the
financial recovery program of the Action Plan (Annex 2.1,3). Annex 4.1
presents the projected financial statements and the assumptions followed.
Details of the Financial Recovery Program as well as deadlines,
responsibilities and monitoring system are presented in Annex 2.1.
Table 4.3: UPSEB PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE,1987/88-1994/95
1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
(est.----------------------(Forecast)-----------------
Available
Energy (GWh) 18,507  21,762  25,827  31,409  33,244  35,081  37,337  41,588
Losses (X)       19.0    18.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0
Sales (GWh)   14,990  17,845  21,437  26,069  27,593  29,118  30,989  34,518
Av. Rev.Rate
(Ps/kWh)     65.54   69.81   69.81   82.24   87.03   92.04   98.35  101.34
Net Income
(Rs mil.)        15    -767  -1,653   1,3'8   1,537   1,723   2,012   2,196
Return on
Assets /a       0.3    -2.4    -4.3      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Return on
rev. assets /b 3.2      1.6      1.1     5.4      5.7     5.6      5.8      5.0
Debt Service
Coverage
Ratio           0.4     1.2      1.2     1.6      1.7      1.9     2.0      1.7
Debt as % of                                 -
Permanent
Funds /c         23      22       22      21       20       19      18       18
Contrib. to
Constr.
(%) /d      -192.4    10.1       9.7     9.3    18.1    23.9    30.8       31.9
Current Ratio    1.0      1.2      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.4     1.3       1.3
/a  On historically valued assets, as per GOI's definition (Annex 4.2).
rb  Estimated using proforma calculations based on Bank's guidelines.
Th Permanent funds: equity plus COUP's perpetual loans.
7T Calculated on the average investment of the previous, the current and the
next following year.



-40-
What follows is a description of the most relevant actions involved, the
impact expected from them, and the areas where additional improvement is
needed in the future.
(a) Improvement of Earning Capacity: As mentioned above, UPSEB's
recovery from its current financial position can only be accomplished
gradually, over a period of several years. A number of factors limit
the speed of this process, notably regarding the improvement of the
earning capacity of the Board. As indicated before (para 2.17),
after the recent adjustment, the average tariff is among the highest
in India at a time when the consumers are increasingly dissatisfied
with the quality of service. These factors, combined with the
general environment at present, make it difficult to rely on
increases in electricity rates as the sole formula for improving
UPSEB's profitability over the next couple of years. With this in
mind, UPSEB has incorporated in the financial recovery program a
strategy for reducing its operating costs and improving collections.
By implementing major improvements in the efficiency of its
operations in the next two to three years, it hopes to achieve some
improvement in its financial performance (Annex 2.1, 1). Although
these improvements will not be reflected in a higher rate of return
for those two years, they will result in an enhanced cash flow, as
measured by: (i) improvement in UPSEB's capacity to contribute to
financing its construction program from internally generated funds
from a negative figures in 1987/88 (-192%) up to about 10% in 1988/89
and 1989/90; and (ii) improvement in the debt service coverage ratio
from 0.4 in 1987/88 to about 1.2 in 1988/89, the first time in recent
history that UPSEB will be able to service its debt, including COUP's
loans up to the limit set by the Act. This trend will continue in
following years. UPSEB's contribution towards financing its capital
investment will exceed 30% towards the end of the period and the debt
service coverage rate is not expected to be below 1.6.
Simultaneously with this enhancement of its efficiency, UPSEB intends
to improve the quality of its service and so make more palatable a
tariff increase of about 18% planned for 1990/91. This tariff
adjustment would help earn the minimum 3% rate of return, after
interest payment, required under the Act. It is estimated that the
annual tariff adjustments required to continue meeting this target
after 1991/92 will be of the order of six to seven percent. On the
basis of a proforma revaluation prepared for comparative purposes,
this return is estimated to be equivalent to about five to six
percent on revalued



-41-
assets - a substantial improvement when compared to the weak
performance of prior years. 1/   UPSEB's future investment
requirements are substantial and it is not realistic to expect that
UPSEB should continue relying on COUP's financial support to the same
degree as it did in the past. This means that UPSEB's capacity to
finance its investment from internally generated funds has to
continue growing. Inefficiencies in the operation and bottlenecks in
the system will still remain and additional upgrading of plants and
improvements in the transmission and distribution systems will be
required. On the other hand, a solution to the current limitations
of the Act (see footrote) needs to be found. Future action on these
areas w.ll complement the financial recovery program by producing
higher rates of return and contributing to make UPSEB more
financially independent. In preparation for the next tariff
adjustment UPSEB intends to retain consultants by June 1989 to
undertake a study aimed at improving the present structure of its
tariffs (Annex 2.1, 3(o)). As indicated before (para 4.03), in the
past COUP has not honored its commitment to reimburse UPSEB for the
operating losses of the rural electrification programs. To help
UPSEB during the financial recovery period, COUP has now agreed to
reimburse UPSEB for the operating losses of the rural electrification
programs up to an amount equal to the lowest of the following:
(i) che actual operating losses from rural electrification programs
calculated on the basis of a formula previously agreed between
COUP and UPSEB;
(ii) the short-fall between the actual net income and the one needed
to meet the 3% required under the Act; and
l/ Although there are reasons which justify an additional increase in
UPSEB's earning capacity, it was found that because of the large backlog
of Deferred Interest on GOUP Loans, and in accordance with the guidelines
of the Act, any excess revenue generated by the Board through a higher
rate of return would have to be applied to reducing such a backlog.
Paradoxically, therefore, a higher return would not result in additional
cash generation for UPSEB because all the incremental funds would be used
to reduce the backlog.  Under these circumstances, the desirability of
requesting higher tariffs which would give rise to rates of return above
the minimum (i.e. 3%) required by the Act is in doubt; it may therefore
be more practical to target rate of return objectives at this level for
the purposes of financial projections. The long-term solution to this
situation would be to either capitalize the existing backlog of Deferred
Interest, change the capital structure of the utility, or revise the Act.
Each one of these options would require time. Since it is a subject that
cuts across the power subsector, it will be dealt with as part of the
Bank's dialogue with GOI on the financing of the SEBs.



-42-
(iii) the interest on GOUP loans charged to operations.
The financial projections (Annex 4.1) show that the amounts resulting
from applying this criteria will be a decreasing percentage of the
revenue from the sale of electricity. This reimbursement is expected
to disappear by 1996/97.
(b) Capital Structure: The capital structure traditionally has been
another weak area in UPSEB's finances. As mentioned above, the
effects of financing investment through debt and the accumulated
operating losses have given UPSEB a negative net worth (para 4.06).
This situation calls for restructuring. Both GOI and COUP have been
considering alternative solutions, including the capitalization of
debt. Since a long-term solution will take some time, following the
Bank's request, COUP gave UPSEB a written commitment confirming that
all its loans to UPSEB are in fact "perpetual" and that, accordingly,
COUP will not request repayment on its loans to UPSEB. This
agreement applies to all existing loans as well as to those to be
granted up to 1995.  Under these circumstances, all COUP loans could
safely be considered permanent funds for UPSEB.  On this basis UPSEB
is expected to have a healthy ratio of debt to permanent funds of
around 20:80.
(c) Improvement of UPSEB's Liquidity Position: as mentioned above
(para 4.07), UPSEB's current liquidity position is very weak. Before
an improvement was attempted, it was needed to make some adjustments
to reflect the real situation. To this effect, at the end of March
1988, the amount of interest owed by UPSEB to COUP wes offset by the
bala?.ce of rural electrification subsidies owed by GOUP to UPSEB. To
begin improving UPSEB's liquidity by Mach 31, 1988, half of the total
of the arrears for electricity bills owed by COUP and its agencies at
the time of appraisal (August 1987) has been collected. In addition
during negotiation GOUP agreed that (i) the balance will be cleared
by March 31, 1989, and (ii) it will prepare and furnish to the Bank
by December 31, 1988, a program to ensure that from April 1, 1989
onwards the receivables from GOUP and its agen. ies will not exceed
the equivalent of sixty days' sales (para 6.01(d), and Annex 2.1, 3
(b)). Also, an aggressive program to accelerate collections from
private consumers was initiated in March 1988 and a review of UPSEB's
billing and collection system will begin in June 1988 (Annex 2.1,
3(c)). On the other hand, because continuation of the large backlog
of accounts payable is unacceptable, UPSEB will: (i) furnish to the
Bank, by June 30, 1988, a program to eliminate the backlog of
payables to major suppliers; (ii) by September 30, 1988 the letter of
credit covering purchases of power from NTPC will be increased from
the current level of Rs 110 million to Rs 150 million; and (iii) from
April 1, 1989 onwards UPSEB will maintain letters of credit with all
major suppliers of power for amounts either equal to or not less than



-43-
the purchases planned for the next month (Annex 2.1, 3(d)). Finally,
by December 1988, UPSEB will retain consultants to recommend ways to
reduce inventories. and improve materials management and control
(Annex 2.1, 3(e)). These actions will result in a marked improvement
of UPSEB's current ratio from 0.4 in 1986/87 to not less than 1.2 in
the projected period.
(d)  Improvements in financing of investment:  lack of adequate planning
and financing of capital investment has been a major cause of
construction delays, cost overruns and disproportionate freezing of
funds in unproductive assets. In addition to a substantial
improvement in UPSEB's capacity to finance its expansion program from
internally generated funds, paragraph 4.11 below describes the
actions taken to deal with this problem.
4.09    Besides the key activities described above, the Action Plan contains
initiatives to support the financial recovery program: (a) eliminate the
backlog of inter-unit accounts referred to in para 4.04(e); (b) improve
internal controls; (c) reduce current delays in submitting audited reports;
(d) improve the control of financing and accounting functions across UPSEB's
operatir--; and (e) introduce long-term financing planning techniques. The
timing c these actions is also included in the Action Plan.
4.10    Given the complexity of its present financial position and the broad
scope of the financial recovery program, UPSEB's future financial performance
cannot be effectively monitored by one or two financial ratios. Instead, it
is intended to follow closely the implementation of different components of
the Action Plan (paras 2.02 and 4.13). In addition, as indicated above,
UPSEB is requ .red by the Act to generate a minimum 3% rate of return
(Annex 4.2). To confirm its commitment to this financial performance target,
during negotiations GOUP agreed to cause UPSEB to take all actions required,
including but not limited to increases in electricity rates, to produce in
1990/91 and the following years a rate of return on net fixed assets in
operation, of not less than 3% (para 6.02(g)), as defined by the Act
(Annex 4.2).
Financing of Investment
4.11    Preliminary projections prepared at the time of appraisal showed that
the financial sources traditionally used by UPSEB, augmented by the improved
cash generation resulting from the financial recovery program described
above, still would be insufficient to finance UPSEB's original investment
program once it was adjusted to reflect price escalation and interest during
construction. To address this problem the following actions have therefore
been taken:
(a)  GOUP agreed to provide loans to UPSEB (perpetual, with adjustable
interest rate--currently 10.25x) in amounts equal up to 80X of the
total cost of UPSEB's investment program, adjusted for price



-44-
escalation, less the net disbursement of loans received by UPSEB from
the Rural Electrification Corporation, the Life Insurance
Corporation, the Industrial Development Bank of India, market
borrowings, and the proceeds from the proposed Bank loan;
(b) In addition, COUP agreed to finance, on the same terms as the regular
loans provided by GOUP to UPSEB, the total amount of interest
capitalized for the period April 1, 1988 to March 31, 1995;
(c) The investment program was revised to transfer part of it from the
initial years, when most of financing gap occurred, to the latter
part of the period. In making this adjustment, available funds will
be used to complete those projects with the greatest financial
impact; and
(d) To ensure that in the future funds available for investment are not
spread too thinly over a large number of projects that take a long
time to be commissioned UPSEB will, under the Action Plan, limit its
capital investment to a priority five-year rolling investment
program. This program, along with its sources of financing, will be
reviewed with the Bank every year, commencing September 30, 1988
(para 4.13 and Annex 2.1, 2(e)).
4.12    The projected financing plan for UPSEB over the period, reflecting
the actions described above and the impact of the financial recovery program,
is presented in Table 4.4. It shows that UPSEB's contribution to investment
from internally generated funds is expected to be 22Z, an improvement over
its historical performance when it had a negative internal cash generation
and it had to borrow to cover its operating deficit (para. 4.04(b)).



-45-
Table 4.4: UPSEB'S FINANCING PLAN, 1988/89-1994/95
(Rs millions)
Funds Required                                                             X
Proposed Project /a                                       10,963/b
Other Capital Investment /a                              111,350
Total Investment                                         122,313
Increase in Working Capital                                4,490
Total Requirements                                       126,803
Sources of Funds
Net Income before Interest                                44,091
Depreciation and Other Non-cash Items                     15,757
Sub-Total                                                 59,848
Less:  Net debt service /c                                32,587
Net Internal Cash Generation                              27,261        22
Borrowings:
Proposed Bank loan /d               5,151
COUP                               67,947
Others                             20,048              93,146        73
Consumer Contributions                                     4,184         3
Staff Superannuation Fund                                  2,212         2
Total Sources                                            126,803       100
/a Including interest during construction.
7r Rs 103 million of total project cost of Rs 11,066 million was invested
in 1987/88.
/c After deducting interest deferred on GOUP's loans (para 4.04(d)).
7- $350 million converted into Rs at the yearly exchange rates presented
in Annex 4.1, page 7.
Financial Reporting and Monitoring
4.13    The Action Plan prepared by UPSEB and endorsed by GOUP constitutes
the critical element to ensure the fulfillment of the institutional
development objectives of this first operation. The timely implementation of
the actions contained in it, which are designed to attack the major problems
identified, are expected to result in: (a) improvements in operational
efficiency; (b) improvements in project management; and (c) the beginning



-46-
of a financial recovery of the Board. For these reasons the implementation
of the Action Plan needs to be closely monitored. As mentioned in para 2.02,
a detailed evaluation of the implementation of the Plan will be undertaken by
December 31, 1989, when several of the most critical activities should be
implemented. Lack of progress in its implementation would be viewed by the
Bank as a serious matter which would affect future project implementation.
In order to monitor this progress, during negotiations COUP agreed to cause
UPSEB to provide to the Bank the following periodic financial reports: (i)
quarterly reports, beginning September 30, 1988, of a format and content to
be agreed with the Bank, indicating the progress attained in implementing
the Financial Recovery Program included in the Action Plan (para 6.02(e));
and (ii) annual reports, beginning December 31, 1988, on the financial
performance for the ensuing financial year, specifying the actions to be
taken to meet the financial targets, and updated financial projections for
the following five years (para 6.02(h)).
V. PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
Leasc Cost Analysis
5.01    The principal components of the proposed Project are the 330 MW
hydropower station at Srinagar, the rehabilitation of thermal power stations
at Harduaganj "A" and at Obra "B", which would add around 560 MW to the
system, and the 400-kV transmission lines which will reinforce UPSEB system
and in particular ensure the evacuation of power from the Srinagar station.
With regard to the power stations, CEA, with the aid of the optimization
model WASP-III, prepared a least cost system expansion plan for the Northern
Region, based on the load forecast given in Annex 5.1. The earliest feasible
implementation of the Srinagar station forms an integral part of the
least-cost plan. In addition, an assessment of the optimum capacity to be
installed at Srinagar has been made, taking into account hydrological
conditions, water flow regulation and system operation based on the
requirements of peak and base loads and the various generation possibilities.
The assumptions used, including the load forecast, and the results of the
optimization modelling have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
The rehabilitation programs at Obra and Harduaganj will substantially
increase the capacity of both plants at comparatively lower cost compared
with the installation of new units of similar capacity. In addition, at
Harduaganj the cost between a conventional pulverized type boiler of small
capacity should not be much lower than the proposed fluidized bed boiler and
the difference, if any, would be more than compensated by the benefit
provided in acquiring, in one of India's power utilities, a new technology
more suitable for the low quality coal actually used at the plant. With
regard to the transmission component, a range of options was considered and
the Bank is satisfied that the configuration chosen (including voltage level)
constitutes part of the least cost development of power supply in the region.



-4;-
Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.02    Benefits derived from the components in the proposed Project cannot
readily be separated from those of other investments in generation,
transmission and distribution. Therefore, having established that these form
part of the least cost expansion plan for the Northern Region, it is
appropriate to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the northern region
investment plan as a whole in order to ensure that the expansion envisaged is
desirable. For this purpose, a "time-slice" of the Northern Region's
investment program has been analyzed. Capital costs of the investment
program (covering generation, transmission and distribution) together with
incremental operating and fuel costs are given in Annex 5.2. The benefits of
the investment program relate mainly to the incremental consumption which it
makes possible. 1/ A minimum measure of benefit, ignoring consumer surplus,
can be derived from incremental sales revenue. In the absence of the
adequate category specific consumption conversion factors, the standard
conversion factor (estimated to be 0.8) has been applied to convert financial
revenue into a measure of economic benefit. On this basis the minimum
internal economic rate of return achieved by the Northern Region program is
1%.
5.03    However, this estimate is more a reflection of the level of tariffs
than of the economic-merit of the investment program. The estimated minimum
economic rate of return, 1%, which is considerably less than the established
opportunity cost of capital, and this is indicative of the fact that retail
tariffs in the Northern Region, particularly for the agricultural consumers,
which in Uttar Pradesh represents a large part of subsidized consumption, are
presently substantially less than LRMC (para 1.1 ). In reality, the program
will confer benefits in excess of those describea above. There will be
consumer surplus associated with the incremental consumption; consumers'
reactions to the severe shortages of power experienced at present, and
expected for the foreseeable future, suggest that willingness to pay
substantially exceeds present tariff levels. In addition there will
typically be other external benefits.
5.04    In order to derive a more realistic internal economic rate of return,
it is useful to estimate a measure of consumer surplus, at least for
industrial and agricultural consumers. Their willingness to pay will be
related to the costs of autogeneration and diesel pumping respectively.  Many
consumers are presently observed to find these options economic when public
l/ The program may also lead to benefits in terms of a reduction in the
cost of meeting existing demand, particularly through fuel savings.
However, the energy deficit is such that by far th2 greater part of the
output available from plants in this program will lead to increased
sales. Fuel savings resulting from this program are likely to be small
and this element of the benefits has therefore been ignored.



-48-
supply is not available. Annex 5.2 presents an estimate of diesel
autogeneration costs at Rs 1.12/kWh. It would, however, be unreasonable to
assume that all industrial consumers would be willing to pay this price for
the whole of their consumption from the public supply system. Therefore, as
a conservative measure, it has been assumed that the consumer surplus
attributable to incremental sales can be derived from an average of the cost
of autogeneration and the prevailing tariff. Similarly, for agricultural
consumers the equivalent cost of diesel pumping has been estimated at Rs.
2.21/kWh and average willingness to pay has been estimated at halfway between
the average agricultural tariff and this alternative cost. This more
realistic measure of the benefit of consumption results in an internal
economic rate of return of 11% for the Northern Region. However, it must
again be stressed that this represents a lower bound estimate as domestic
consumer surplus and other external benefits, have still not been included.
Justification for Bank Involvement
5.05     Through the Project, the Bank would follow its strategy towards a
more direct involvement with individual SEBs (para 1.22). In this particular
case with the first direct operation with UPSEB, the Bank has initiated with
UPSEB the identification of an Action Plan where a state-specific program has
been designed to address areas of deficiency (para 2.02). Commitments of
GOUP and UPSEB to implement the Action Plan would affect institutional
strengthening, operational performance, and financial recovery of the Board.
In addition the Bank would be supporting GOI and GOUP efforts (para 3.04) to:
(a) alleviate power shortages in Uttar Pradesh by exploiting indigenous
hydro-resources;
(b) undertake timely rehabilitation of the Obra "B" and Harduaganj "A"
thermal power stations; and
(c) augment transmission capacity, develop telecommunication connections,
and improve metering, thereby improving system operation and reducing
losses.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
6.01    During negotiations, COUP agreed to:
(a) undertake actions under the Action Plan regarding UPSEB organization
and technical and financial performances that are under its
responsibility (para 2.02);



-49-
(b) implement, or cause the implementation of, the resettlement plan
agreed with the Bank (para 3.10);
(c) onlend to UPSEB the proceeds of the proposed loan at the standard
interest rate it charges for loans made to its corporations and
agencies, but ilot less than the current rate of 10.25X p.a. with a
repayment period of twenty years, including a grace period of five
years (para 3.12); and
(d) eliminate, or to cause to eliminate, before March 31, 1989, the
remaining undisputed arrears due to UPSEB as of August 31, 1987 by
COUP and its agencies for electricity consumption and prepare, before
December 31, 1988, a program to ensure that, from April 1, 1989
onwards, GOUP and its agencies pay their electricity bills within 60
days (para 4.08(c)).
6.02    During negotiations, GOUP agreed to cause UPSEB to:
(a) implement the Action Plan regarding (i) improvement of the Board's
operational efficiency; (ii) strengthening of its construction
management, including the adherence to a rolling five-year priority
investment program; and (iii) financial recovery of the Board
(para 2.02);
(b) furnish to the Bank UPSEB's audited accounts together with the
Auditor's report within 12 months of the end of the financial year
for the years 1987/88 and 1988/89 and within nine months for the
following financial years (para 2.11);
(c) submit an application to the appropriate authorities by December 31,
1988 to obtain clearance required under the Forests (Conservation)
Act, 1980, for the purpose of installation of 400-kV transmission
lines for evacuation of power from t'he Srinagar hydropower station
(para 3.10);
(d) furnish to the Bank, no later than one-year before the expected
completion of the Srinagar dam, details of the arrangements for
inspecting and maintaining the dam and the associated structures to
ensure their continued safety (para 3.15);
(e) furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports, beginning September
30, 1988, covering physical works, procurement, consultant work,
costs, disbursements, financial and administrative aspects of the
Project and implementation of the Action Plan (paras 3.16 and 4.13);
(f) furnish to the Bank annual reports, beginning September 30, 1988,
covering the monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement and
compensatory afforestation plan related to the Srinagsr hydro scheme
(para 3.16);



-50-
(g) produce in 1990/91 and the following years a rate of return, after
interest, on fixed assets of not less than 3% (para 4.10); and
(h) furnish to the 3ank annual reports, beginning December 31, 1988, on
the financial performance for the ensuing tinancial year, specifying
the actions to be taken to meet the financial targets and updated
financial projections for the following five years (para 4.13).
Recommendation
6.03    With the above conditions, the proposed Project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$350 million equivalent to GOI for a term of 20 years,
including five years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



IIDIA
VfTAR PRADtS11 POWER PROJECT
Electricity Generation. Sale and Ptttern of Enerty Cosusmtion - All Indio
Deecriotion               1950151  1955/56  1960161  1965166 .1968169  1970/74  197S/79  1979180  1980/81  1981182  1982183  1983784  1984/81   1"5/6   1986187
(Provisional/
s                 x                                                               Tentative)
Inetalled Capacity (IIW)    1,835    2,886    4,653    9,027    12,957   16.664   26.680   28,448   30.214   32,345   35.363   39,339   42,585    46,769    49,257
(Utilities)
Electricity Genereted      5,858    9,662   16,937   32,990    47,433   66,689  102,523  104,627  110,821  122,101  130,264  140,177  156,859   170,322   188,000
(Glb)
Electricity Consumption    4,793    7,959   13,953   26,735    37,352   50,246   77,293   78,124   82,473   90,245   95,589  102,344  114,068   123,209     IA
(GWb)(Utilities only)
Per Capita Generation      20.80    30.90    43.90    73.81     97.82   126.26   159.60   160.00   166.20   175.89   183.65   193.57   216.61    235.18     MA
(kWh)(Utilities only)
Per Capita Consumption     12.30    20.70    31.90    53.70     70.80    87.15   120.48   119.40   123.70   130.00   134.67   141.33   154.27    163.26     NA             U
(kWh)(Utilitiea only)
ConsumOtion Pattern (2)
Donestic Light &           12.40    11.70    10.70     8.80      8.50     9.20    9.80     10.76   11.28     11.57    12.65   12.93      13.59     13.89    NA
Small Power
Comercial Light &           6.90     6.80     6.10     6.20      5.70     6.00    5.60      5.96    5.95      5.76     6.12    6.41      6.08      6.30     NA
Small Power
Industrial Power           63.70    66.90    69.40    70.60     69.30    64.60   61.35     58.86   58.75     58.80    55.41   55.79     55.25      54.15    NA
Railway/Traction            6.90     5.10     1.30     4.00      3.30     3.00    2.83      2.95    2.82      2.78     2.75    2.65      2.52       2.54    NA
Agriculture Pumps           4.30     4.00     9.30     7.10      9.30    12.60   15.56     17.23   17.48     16.84    18.64   17.81      18.38     19.10     MA
Public Water Works,
Sewage Pumping, Public
Lighting & Otbers         5.80     5.50      3.90     3.30     3.90     4.60    4.86      4.24     4.25     4.43     4.41    4.18      4.02       4.02     MA
Total                   100.00   100.00    100.00  .100.00   100.00   100.00  100.00    100.00   100.00   100.00   109.00   100.00   100.00    100.00    MA
NA - Not Available
Source: CEA, March 1986



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Forecast of Regional Oower Demand in India. 1987/88 - 1996/97
1987/88     1988/89       1989/90      1990/91      1991/92      1992/93      1993/94      1994/95    1995/96    1996/97
Energy
(GWh)
Northern                 67.538       74.073        81.086       89,218       98,178      108.055       118.945      130.953    144.199    158.813
Western                  64.538       70.416        76,678       83,744       91.467       99.913       109.148      119.245    130.288    142,365
Southern                 58,817       63,943        69.296       75.920       83.188       91.160        99,907      109.505    120.038    131.597
Eastern                  32.440       35.650        38.889       42.831       47.194       52,021        57.366       63.287     69.848      77,122
North-Eastern              2.712       3.038         3.389        3.744        4.135        4.563         5.035        5.550       6.118      6.744
Andaman and                   30           33           37           41           46           52            58           65          73          82
Nicobar Islands
Lakshadweep                    3            4             4           5            6            6             7            8        9.24       10.45
All India (TOTAL)       226,078      247,157       269.379      295,503      324.214      355.770       390,466      428.613    470.573    516.733
Peak Load
(TW)
Northern                  13,179       14.455       15,825       17,415       19,167       21.098        23,227       25.576      28.167    31.027
Western                   11,245       12,273        13.459      14.701       16,058       17,542        19.165       20.938      22.879    25.003
Southern                  10.620      11,534        12,485       13.675       14,982       16.414        17.986       19.711      21.603    23.677
Eastern                   5,640        6,196         6.757        7,442        8,202        9,043         9,974       11,006      12,147    13,415      .
North-Eastern                599         667            740         814          895          983         1.080        1.185       1.302      1.428     9
Andaman and                    8            9            10           11          12           14            16           18        20.2       22.6
Nicobar Islands
Lakshadweep                    2            2             2            2           3            3             3            4        4.44       5.02
All India (TOTAL)        41,293       45,136        49,278       54.060       59.319       65,097        71,451       78.438      86.123    94,578
Source: CEA, July 1987
Ix.
V..



- 53 -
Annex 1.3
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector (April 30. 1988)
Loan/
Approval  Closing   Credit    Amount
Borrower   IBRD Loans                             No.    Date      Date    Amount    Disbursed    Status
(USS Million Equiv.)
India      First DVC - Bokaro - Konar              23    4/50      2/56      18.50      16.72      Complete
India      Second DVC - Maithon - Panchot          72    1/53      6/58      19.50      10.50      Complete
Tata       Trombay Power                          106   11/54      9/66      16.20      13.85      Complete
Tata       Second Trombay                         164    5/57      9/66       9.80       9.66      Complete
India      Third DVC - Durgapur                   203    7/58      6/65      25.00      22.00      Complete
India      Koyna Power                            223    4/59      4/65      25.00      18.70      Complete
India      Power Transmission                     416    6/65     12/70      70.00      50.00      Complete
India      Second Kothagudem Power                417    6/65     12/70      14.00      13.97     Complete
Tata       Third Trombay Thermal Power           1549    4/78     12/84    105.00      105.00      Complete
India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (*)          1648    1/79      6/87      50.00      50.00      Complete
India      Farakka Thermal Power (*)             1887    6/80     12/88      25.00       0.00
India      Second Ramagundam Thermal Power (*) 2076   12/81        6/89    300.00      192.40
India      Third Rural Electrification           2165    6/82      6/88    304.50      275.70
India      Upper Indravati Hydro                 2278    5/83      6/91    156.40        0.39
India      Central Power Transmission (*)        2283    5/83      3/89    250.70       20.10
India      Indira Sarovar                        2416    5/84      6/92    157.40        4.80
India      Second Farakka Thermal Power (*)    2442    6/84       12/91    300.80       35.70
Tata       Fourth Trombay Thermal Power          2452    6/84      6/90    135.40       65.30
India      Chandrapur Thermal Power              2544    5/85     12/92    300.00       45.30
India      Rihand Power Transmission (M)         2555    5/85     12/89    250.00       88.90
India      Kerala State Power                    2582    6/85      9/91    176.00        1.80
India      Combined Cycle (*)                    2674    4/86     12/1    485.00       55.50
India      Karnataka Power                       2827    6/87     12/95    330.00       14.00
India      National Capital Power Supply (*)   2844    6/87        6/95    485.00       38.50
India      Talcher Thermal Power (*)             2845    6/87      3/96    375.00        0.00
Total                                                       4.364.20   1,148.79
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                            (2.511.50)   (481.00)
IDA Credits
India      Fourth DVC - Durgapur                   19    2/62     12/69      21.88      19.88      Complete
India      Second Koyna Power                      24    8/62      9/70      21.10      21.10     Complete
India      Kothagudem Power                        37    5/63     12/68      24.13      24.13     Complete
India      Beas Equipment                          89    6/66      6/74      26.59      26.32     Complete
India      Second Power Transmission              242    4/71      3/77      75.00      72.93     Complete
India      Third Power Transmission               377    3/73      9/78      85.00      85.00     Complete
India      Rural Electrification                  572    7/75     12/80      57.00      57.00      Complete
India      Fourth Power Transmission              604    1/76      6/83    150.00      149.87      Complete
India      Singrauli Thermal Power (*)            685    3/77      6/84    150.00      150.00     Complete
India      Korba Thermal Power (*)                793    4/78      3/86    200.00      199.92     Complete
India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (*)           874    1/79      6/87    200.00      200.00      Complete
India      Second Rural Electrification           911    5/79      3/84    175.00      171.75      Complete
India      Second Singrauli Thermal Power (*)  1027    5/80        3/89    300.00      282.60
India      Farakka Thermal Power (*)             1053    6/80     12/88    225.00      215.80
India      Second Korba Thermal Power (*)        1172    7/81     12/89    400.00      354.90
India      Upper Indravati Hydro                 1356    5/83      6/91    170.00       95.10
India      Indira Sarovar                       SF020    5/84      6/92    129.80        0.56
India      Indira Sarovar                        1613    5/86      6/92      13.20          -
Total                                                      2,423.70   2,126.86
(Total Credits for NTPC Projects)                         (1.475.00) (1.403.22)
(*) NTPC Projects



INDIA
UTtAR PRADESN STATE ELECTRICITY BOW3
.... .......................................................... .
Action Plan for Overotl lnprOveelt in Board Efficiency
.......................................................
RESPWISILiTY           INPWLE1iATISN                                 NOUItCRIUG                   wEftIIt
AC?105                  Si*-AC1iVIT                          CENTER                   DATE               1TARI                   STSeW                       ff*S                        R
tlelOYtiEiT li CPEIItATIlAL EFFICIENCY:
e)Rittructtulng               I)Prepurt draft for bard          SAeretprrfJSl .        )  April/88                                s)Portnlihtly report
O)itestEcturing                                               Corp Offtee                                                         to Secretry;
Oranitie                                                                                                                           o bWanthtV meting
2t)Srd *ppronl                                             Jow/so                                      with CE(PIuV,"M)
I)AppoIntsent of staff             Chbirn                  Spt.88
WoJcb dneriptiof                   iRespective Officers    Spt/
)Sqiacusm ieplamntation                                    onlcas
scuehiut with IND
b)Corporat  Plan              1)De1fnr cbi ctiv1                 CEISElCorp. Pltn)       Cmleted                                   Fortnigtlty
2)Collection of data                                      ctptetd                                    repert to
3)0raft plan                                               coetetad                                  C(Clatmirf)
I4fintl plan                                               Jn
5)Said Wproval                                            July/US
c),ippIovot In Tbmt          l)Throe year rolting plan for       CE (SIN) tiwe l       Completed           lrovemft  of           Fortnightly rprting
Genareting Plant            mIntannce of th_int units         with aI (tr.                              plant told factor       to  Ilth) by Ct (bint)
2reation                    procurmet of spare parts          irdaBni,                                  s *ollow:                 d itty Ieeting
-*rwtl mint-Mnce pr_r              Parichi. Pw*i)        As pcr cbhedte        7-U:47%               with CE (Plumlng)
2)Riehabilitation and Waintenince                                             89:321
Therel tknits                                                               89-90:55S
-liO  for identificstion of                            Sept. 1968           90-91:SoU
unit-wite Jobs by conuttanltl/
experts and/or UPES staff
-review with IND                                       Wove8er 1958                                                               Coultant/tet
0*
IX.
i-



RESPONSISIi ITY        lltElIEutATION 1OITlORIIG                                                   SPECIFIC
ACTION                   SUS-ACTIVIIY                         CEIIEP                    OATE                TAPOET                 SYSTEM                       RESMJCES                     REI
. ............ ................. ................ .......................................... ....................................... .................  .......................   ..................  ...............................  .. ...... ..............   ......................
-feasibility report                                     Jute 1969
-discuss lIprovement Plan                               Sept. 1989
with lIE
-loerd review                                           Noveeber 1969
-firwicing tie-up                                        February 1969
- is l anteion                                          March 90/1arch 93
3)I1provemnt in coal   tity                                                    Rdeiction In coat                                       UMPSEh suld parsue
-negotiation with coal                                   Jure 196            consmption                                              the mtter with Govt.
(India) Ltd.                                                                                                                          ahoritie    d Clt
-finatization of agreemnt                               Sept. 19b8
d)ilprovement In hydro    I)ReviWd deelgn of the rurrrs            eeber (UT)            Feb. 1989           Restore plant            SIEL
geerating plant         2)1nateltation of new  rumors          CE (Nydel)            Feb. 1991            efficiency
operstion (ilheri
sell 1)
*)1qp_vment of               I)Prolect Report Prqwration          CE(T) wd SE           Coqpleted                                     Fortnihtty reporting           Caowuttant
Cinmication S"tem         2)CEA    reovaI                      (Car rcatIon  nd   Sept. 1966                                       to Neber (Tren-
for Translislion          3)1  8 a*gres_mnt on LOI and TON    Cewuter)               October 1968                                 mission) n  monthly
wd Operation              0)1scruitment of Consultant                                Oeceder 196                                  meting with CE
5)Prerstion of Specifications                               arch 1969                                   (Planing)
wid lid Invitation
6)PIac_nt of Order                                         October 1969                                                                                                         tn
7)Coection of alt mJor                                     March I92
themi  stations
7)Cor,ectlon of all major                                  March 1993
tronomission aetat ions
f)l_provemnt of              i)elyals of factors leading to   Nom,er (0) *rd                                                          Fortnightly reprting
Distribution                hi,er syst    to ads               CE (Distribution                                                   to Rm     (Oistribtu-
Sytm                        -Standerdization design for        Design Engineering)  December 1988                                  tion) and  nnthty meeting
construction mterial                                                                                with CE (Plamting)
-1mnut  for operation wnd                               December 1988
meintenance produce
0.
IF1 I-



tESPONSI3ILIIt          IlPtENENIATIOC                                NONIIORING                   SPECIFIC
ACTION                   St -ACTIVIlt                         CENTER                    DATE                TARGET                 SYSTEN                       RESECES                       WNW
. .. . ...... ...... .. ... ....  ... ... .......... ................ .  ................ .    .................  ............. ..  ...................   .     ......................    ......... ............
2)Iprovement of Distribution
System in urban areas
-Knpr distribtution system
Coapetion of ODA feeibitity                          Conpleted                                                                 Consultant (MEI. NW)
report
Detailed Engineerfrg Itport
irdOI a rowval                                        Jams Me
Finncial tie-up                                      Septeder 1966
mplemntation                                        Aprit 89-larch 93
-VAAIANSI distributioln system
(TATA-Consultants)                                                                                                                ITATA-Co sultants)
Cmapetion of report                                  Merch 1968
splet_ntation                                        April 1969  -
Septemr 1991
-Other Tan Major Urban Centers
Tak force                                             Ca pleted
Feasibility   porte                                  March 1963
P Revw with I39                                       June 1989
. Progrm  AWprovl                                      Sept r 196
Implementation                                       April 90-Norch 92
3)Imrovemant in Rural Distribu-
tion Systm 
-Introjiction of  t syst_ In   tNer  D)                                        REduction In            fortnightly reporting       Not yet Idantifted
ptlce of 0.4 kV systm             CE (Distributfan                            losses frm  2M  to      to Nsdr  (Distribu-
. Desi9n finalization            oesign  nld           Cwlated               17X   in the area       tion) an  mnthty meting
. Sord   proval                  En9inering)           June 1968            urder impletsmtation   with CE (Plaiming)
Procurment of wteralt                                 Sept. 196
I pla_ntxlion of pilot                               Msrch 1919
project
Evatuation an  m_s scate                              April 1989
Conversion plan impltentmtion                         Jwe 89 onwards
-introdjction of singte phase
distribution system in ptace of
tri-Oase system
feasibility Stuiy ewr                                 September 1968                                                            Experts
Esperienre of other utilities
Soord Approval                                        Oecerber 1988
>JQ
4-. N
0.



ItESPOhSIIILITIY        IPLEIENTATTIO                                  M  ITORtlNG                   SPECIFIC
ACTIOa                   SUE-ACTIVI1Y                          CENiTER                    DATE                TARGET                 STSTEM                       *ESONtCES                     n
.........................  .................................     . ...  ................. ........  ... .. ............ .  .................. . . .. . ..................  . ..   ......... ..........................  ----------------------......... 
Procurement of Material                                March 1989
Pitot Project                                          Deceder 1989
g)lqprovement of            1)Installation of meters  nd            _ewer (0)                                  ibnitoring of toad       Fortnightly reporting        Included in world
metering                 muiinma load indicator of             CE (Distribution                            and losn  (Prepare-   to Ner (Distribu-               BS* toan
33^11l kV  stetion                   Deign and                                   tion of a dts btee)   tion)  nd monthly meting
-aesasmnt of requirements          Engineering)          Coleted                                       with CE (Plaming)
-preparation of spcification                             Cortted
-invitation to bid                                       Jium  1988
-procurment                                              Dec.mbr 88-Jure 89
-in tellation/implementetlon                             June 89-Decer 90
2 ate repl cmnt of consumera    Member (0)                                                                                             Eteaowc e to be
mterc having ore than five         CE (Distribution)                                                                                 idantifi d
years cervices
-Assessment. rcuiremmlts of                              Juma 1968
mters                                                    Sept. 1968
-Action plan for reptac_nt                               Dec. 1969
-Blord epproval                                          Marc  198
-Fina ncil tie-tu                                         Decse  1969
-Procur_Mnt of Mters                                     April 90 onrds
-Replacement of mters                                    Jun  90 orwrds
larch 1968                                                                                                               4
3)PIan for meter testing and           lder (0)                                                             lMnthty report to be
od  rnization of testing            CE (L-11) eider                                                      mhmitted by CE
facilities                                                                                               IL-11) toM rae-
-Preparation of bidding                                  Deceder 1968                                   (Distribution)
docu_nt end sbort list of
bidcers
-Invitation of teders                                     arch 1969
-Pl acemnt of orders                                     Septebr 1989
-S.4.piy of testing ai                                   March 1990
cetibration .qJiFment
I >
O.-
x 



KSIMiSilIIY IlWPEIEUIAtII                                      NUITUOIWG                  WECIFIC
ACTION                 Sw-ACTIVITY                      CENTER                  DATE              1*xC51I               ESTENS 
h1ProaiOtivity of        1)AaS"slng hmn resources           16 (NlD)/
humn resoLe rc             n                               Secretary
-capitation of date bse                              Doeeder 1966
far eginers
-Evatuation                                          March 1969
2)Prepre five- year training
progr_
-Aepointment of conutt ent                           Ctpleted
-Consulter; port                                      Sept 1966                                                             ConxultAnt             view of ToQ   136 I9
-Discuss training progros                            Dec.31. 196                                                            (FORE)
with IURD
-Board  proval                                        Jan. 1969
- leplt_ntation                                      April 199/ords
3) Training plen 196?-6                                 Coweeted                                                                                   (W)sfrdtion corse
-uinaara:300
upervis:20
(2)11resr Coxe
top tevet:3D
-service:100
*gA:2OS         I
-jrniar:100    ,,
(3e-orlentstlon  00
-Sr A.E.:210
4)Tralnini plan                    Secretary            Aprit INS
S)Controt Exces stffing            Secretry
-SEn an recruit_nt                                    In force
-Staffing nof                                                                                                                                    Staffing rw_  we
qrind uI posts We
daeysd d"re tW* I
a r,irmnt frm aw
are
We"  ~     01
30 *
o .



RE_SISiitlT           IWi.EiNtAtTION                             It*itlhC                     EtCiflC
ACTIO                   =-ACTIVITY                        CEltER                  DATE               tMICT                STSTlE                     SEIES                       _t
Me)Stffin .vibility                 Secretary
-Review of I                                          S.pter e196
,Reit a   tton                                        Decer 196
I)Nwwemnt infor_etion  I)MIS (Stage 1) (mmal)                Ptaming
Systm  ("IS) nW          -distribution districts                                Cmleted                                                                                      HiS Manul) Piard  by
Cq terization            *tranmission arm                                       Junr 1968                                                                                   T1t* cewattwn
-gnration plants                                      Sept 1968
2)"IS (stag 11)
-Preparation of TOR nd                                April 1969                                                           Conenuttnte             MIS (Stag  11) inctuld
recrultmnt                                                                                                                                        control of wr pltming
-Review with 5i6D                                     may 1969                                                                                     wI  review, finricbt
-Recruitment of coneuttants                           Jure 1969                                                                                    bgetting wd cost
-teport aa   c r-ecm t lone                           Decemer 1969                                                                                  (See Cergwrte Ptwn)
-Implementation                                       Jure 1990
SOCrpterization
-Introdcution of mini -ceutr                          Coepieted                                                            Purci,a  of five P.C.
(PC) ad training                                                                                                          camaters (I6  Lan)
-tong-term plan for                                                                                                        Cumttante
ceputerization                                                                                                                                                        I
Prepration of ICR wan                             April 1989
recrui t_nt
Review with I=a                                    Noy 1969
Recruitmnt of coanutt ente                        Jum  1969
. Recomo_dtion                                      Dec 1969
lepltmentation                                   19O - 1991
2. t112OEElT IN PROJECT NaiAEIENT
*)testructuring in                                           Seecretary                                                     fortnightty progress
orgenitation lsee 1 (a)                                                                                                   report to Secretsry
abovel                                                                                                                     nd mnthty meting
with Ct (Ptwning)
30 :5
b m
K
0*
I-
O .



SESPOlSISIIl a        IMLWtEMENTAUTION             AIIf                  G                  SPICIFIC
ACTIe                  aUS-ACTIVITY                      CENTER                   DATE              TARGET                SYSTEM                   tSESSCES                      i
b)inteoreted orfamizetion   1anote to the loerd              Secretary            Co teted
structure for Srinagr 2)1ard srovtl                                           Completed
hydro-electric project 3)CO    rwovaIl                                        may 1968
4)plawmnt of staff                                     Juam  196
4)APpointunt of Puts    t)Srinigar hydra-etlectric           CE (Ptlming)                                                   tperts by POE (Ptlming)    Cnwttuntel
of Experts (POE) in      project                                                                                         to Chairen  (eopied to       Exerts
different fietd                Initiat pal                                     Copleted                                 I6)
Complete pent                                    Calpleted
210tber projects
Selection                                        June 1918
Nlooination                                      Dec. 1968
d0Provieion of price      llCoultetlon with G0D              Nader (FAA)          June 1968
eesletion in project  2)Provision for interal             CE (Pleiming)        Sept. 1968
cost esti_tem             ut* (WUS)
e)Prfority five-year     l1Oic,  with IW                     M(GT)US (IFU)        Completed          ited.e contruction    Monthly rworte by
Investmut Progrm                                          CE (P)                                  delap er coat          UCClT) to Chairmn                                  tw  of  red
overruns                                                                 1911110-19OZ191
2)AMiAI teviaw mu Upte                                  Beginning                                                                                    Pririty iwn t nt
Sept. 198                                                                                   Porqr_ in Attad_n
f)Future hydroelectric    1N)Unitn  of priorities uW         M(G&T) with          Dec    eJr t9
projects                progr  of site invwetigetion      1WOW(T)
2)its51w with INS                                        FdebrL    196                                                                                                  0
3)Preliinary design of                                  Oede  r 1969
priority projects
mi
O .



lESPtJISIDLITY         INPIEENIATION                               fOhITOI INI                    SCItFIlC
ACTIN                   SW-ACCtIiTY                         CEITER                   DATE               TMGET                  SYSTEl                     PESWf8CEES                    E
................................................ ................................. ................    ...................... .................   . .....................    . .................   ....................  ......................  ......................  ......................
3IUANClALi RECOVERY
s)Fincring Plam
l96s89-l99%/95             I)Prepere propalt for MWr          N(MfU CMairson         Cqpleted          Zero Fin ncing gap
2)Present to GOCU                 Ch0rin                 Coaleted
3)GMP approval                                           Comteted
4'R.fer to Vojtd  u*              Choir_on                Coapleted
b)Coll.ctlon of              IFlirst step                       RCFU)                  Ccpleted          Reduxe arrears          Monthly
overdA  GSOP                                                  C.E.(Com)                                balances as of          report by
receivables                                                                                            Aug. 31. 1967
2)Sacend stop                                             March/89          Eilminrte              C.E.(Cou) to
blneme                 A(Dist)
3)Dosip~ Systm to aoid                                    Sept. 30/88       60 doy
future acamttcrt of                                                       receIvables
arrears fro NW
4M)Iltemt System                                          April/89
c)Ieprove
bitliglrottectirn          llview tor_                       N ()                   Cwteted           3CI   receivables to  Monthty
Vista"                     2tevieu  bill distribution sys.  C.E.(Com)                Muw/OS            Mr/88:90 das            rrport by                                                              
Moedeailn bilting syt_m                                  Augq.8             Nr/a89:80 das          C.E.(Com) 
Uevioew  colltction systm:        C.C.A.A.                Sept.1988         Nar/90:75 day          to M(D)&
-cash cott ection                                                         Mtr/91:70 day           X(FAA)
-collection through bk*s
-coltection through gWts
S)*view accosmting and                                    Sept.1988
reconciliation of collections
6)Sesin system for monthly        C.E.(Ccm)               Sept. 196
anlysis of aauessmnt ard                                                                         onmthly
cottection                                                                                       report by
7Miscuss plan to reduce                                  Sept./88                                  C.C.A.A. to
receivables with I M                                                                             N (FLA)
os
O .



DESDCNSIIILITl           IMPLEtEtTATION                                   ttONitmOG                      SKSCIFIC
ACTIN                     SUll-ACtIVIIY                          CENTER                      DATE                 TARCET                   SYSTEt                        RSOURCES                       Rum
.........................    .................................     . .... ................   ................. ...... ...................   ............  .  *.....................  ..  .................................  ----------------------................ ...... ............
d)feduction of                  t)Prepere plan for                    N (FM)                    June/88
payebles                        eliminating arrears.                F.AS& C.A.O.
2)Adjurt tTPCts tlC                                            Sept/88
to Is15i million
3)mmlntaln t/Cs for                                            Fro April/89
major  uppl iers of                                            enards.
fuel wl powr
at a tlee not loimr
than the expected
purcha.  of the nawt
foalloing mnth.
el)Iprove                       Retain Consultants:                   C.E.Mn.t.)                                   Reduce                    Monthty                       Coneultants
materials                    1)Prrpere term  of reference                                   Sept.1968           Investment;               report by
mawagement                   2)Selctlon of ceultante                                      Dec. 19i            blmnce stocks;            C.E.CN.".)
3)Consultant report                                            Jure 1969            Improve controls         to M(D)
4)impl_mntotion begina                                         Sept.1989
f1settlemnt                    1IProposal to tiUP                     MCFAA)                   Completed           Clarify
of I.E.Suleidy                2)Approvtm  by GOl                                             Completed            financiel
ut  Interest on               3)iplnt adjustmnt                                              Copletted           position                                                                                                 I
WV  lons 
N3
$)Review of                      Wropoeal to  MDP                     NOWA)                     Ceoleted            1mproe                   Mnthy
capital                     2)bAprwoa  bL GOV                                               Completed           fintlel         o         report by
etueture                    3)iO ptlmnt decision                                            Ctpleted            position                  N(FU)
(Confirm CCtt                                                                                                                             to the hard
1o    aro perpetual)
h)Elimlnete                     l)Cr*ate task force                   M (F&A) CAO              May/88               (Rs. million)            Monthly
backlog of                   2)D0e eI acttmo   needd                                        "u/88               ttr/8:t00                 r      port by
Inter-unit                  3)Iwpl_nt eations                                               Sept/88             Mer/89:250                CRO to M(FSA)
eccaute                                                                                                         msr/90:200
30 :
I- :
x
0 ,



PESPCUSISIitITr         INPtENElTAtIO                               tOITOhIMG                     SPECIFIC
ACtI                    SUDACTIVITY                          CENltER                  DATE                TMGET                  SYStEN                      ESCUtCES                     ffENl
................................. ................................... .......... ................  ..................... ................. .......................  .................. .......................  ......................  ......................   ......................
I)Avold futur,               1K' eview present System            N (FAA) CAO            Nay/aa                                     Monthly
backlog of                2Design syste  to reduco                                    Juie/U                                    report by
Inter-unit                 tim  to rais  the debit wid                                                                          CCA  to NO(FW
accomtn                     ccept the debit
3)Design systm to mnitor the                               Jun/JU
process
J)I1prowe controt             I)Creto St  orting unit           NI(FA) A Secestery      Nay/U                                      Monthly
of finencalo/               with CEtCom) under N(CF)                                                                            _etinp
accowutinn                 2)Sad srovsl                                               July/U                                    with Secrtetry
activities                3)Job dncription                                            Sept/Be
under Cor. Opt.           4)Setlection wed plecewnt                                   Dec/U
of staff
W)iqprove control             1)Dsein training progrm on         Secretery 9             Dec31/81
of accowtino                accowting for Jr.enginsers       CE(lhDi)
activities               2)training progrse beins                                  Nfr3l/89
urder Constr.             3)IIesign s4unere for CE to deelo       "                 Doc3i/U
Op tA Iteaint,            their a_ nreness of the linkages
betwaen their activities
and the finswes of the hard 
4AShinsrs bein                                             Ner3i/89
t)Sl=it mdited                1)19 05/66                         N (FA) CJO             Copeted
statnts  ad               2)168e/                                                     June/88
Auditor rports            3)Pror  to reuce future delay                               Sept/68
a)fIve-year rolling           1)unitist Plan                     N   U) III              Dec. 1968
finminel  ptin             2)Amusl  -eview                     CE (Ftc)               Deceber
evry year
nimprove internal            letoin camultmnts:                  C.C.A.A.
controls                   I)Propoesl for hard                                         Nay 19U                                  Nnthly Report by            Coneultente
2)IRD review                                                Jume 196                                  C.C.A.A. to N MA)
3)lwrd aroval                                               July 1938
4S)Iplemntation begins                                      Sept. 1968
) 0
7Q 0
o 



-  -                           ~~~~~~~~Annex 2. 1
- 64 -                         ~~~~~Page 11 of 11
:I        i
U.
4               . 
y~~                I .
_ U
-3~
DS'   l    | g 
,  ,  _ t     j  
_        . 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
i 8,   a  
B :I. 



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
PRIORITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(YEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
..... ................... .................................... ......
(In Rs Million)
Estimated             Expenditures upto
Total ProJ. Costs             March 1988              Projected total expenditures in
--.......... -------------------. ............. ...------............... ........................................................
SUMNARY PRIORITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM       Forn.   Local   Total   Forn.  Local       Total   FY 1989 FY 1990 FY 1991 FY 1992 FY 1993
A) GENERATION                              15038.6  56481.9  71520.5  748.8  25145.7 25894.5  5435.5  5268.3  6960.0  7706.4 8368.8
B) TRANSMISSION                                0.0  6411.0  6411.0    0.0   853.0   853.0   597.0  339.8  496.4  1021.2  17M7.1
C) SUB-STATIONS, DISTRIBUTION,              3912.1  59754.3 63666.4    9.9  13625.0  13634.9  3354.4  4861.4  6522.4  8888.6  b532.9
COMPOSITE PROJECT, REC &
OTHER PROJECTS
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM                18950.7 122647.3 141598.0   758.7  39623.7 40382.4  9386.9 10469.5 13998.7 17610.3 18674.8
UUU3S-SICZ3UU33m3UU1.C Z3UZ73UEU3==32ZZ3U3ZZUgg3333Z5ZZ3233U33U_=Y
Estimated              Expenditures upto
Inst.                Total Proj. Costs             March 1968             Projected total expenditures in
Cap.  Date   of    ......................    ......................    .......................................
A) GENERATION PROJECTS   (NW)  Comnisng.   Forn.  Local    Total    Forn.    Local  Total   FY 1989 FY 1990 FY 1991 FY 1992 FY 1993
.........----         -----............. .... .....    -----   -----.... ........ .......................................... ....... -----........ ------- -------...... ------- -------.. -------
Thermal
Obra II & III        1000   CorM.         0.0  3948.6  3948.6    0.0  3948.6  3948.6           0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Harduaganj 'C'        230   Com.          0.0  1197.4  1197.4    0.0  1170.7  1170.7    12.2   14.5            0.0    0.0      0.0
Panki                       Coma.         0.0   777.5   777.5    0.0   777.5   777.5           0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Parichha              220   Cowm.         0.0  2042.6  2042.6    0.0  1953.9  1953.9    48.1    40.6           0.0     0.0    0.0
Anpara 'A'            630   1986-88       0.0  6709.6  6709.6       0.0  6226.8  6226.8   281.7  145.5   55.6    0.0    0.0
Tanda                 440   1989-90       0.0  5238.0  5238.0    0.0  3319.0  3319.0   734.8  917.3  266.8    0.0    0.0
Anpara 'B'           1000   1995-96   15038.6  4264.0  19302.6  748.8   205.4   954.2  3691.2  3077.8  3151.2 3291.2 2750.0
Sub-Total Thermal                     15038.6  24177.6 39216.2  748.8  17601.9  18350.7  4768.0 4195.7 3473.6  3291.2  2750.0
Hydro
Garhwal-Rishikesh-Ch  144   Coma.         0.0   1014.4  1014.4    0.0    994.4   994.4         0.0   13.1      6.9     0.0    0.0
Yanamu   Stage 11 Part  120   Coma.       0.0  1579.7  1579.7    0.0  1545.5  1545.5           0.0   20.3   13.9    0.0    0.0
Maneri Bhali 1         90   Cowm.         0.0   940.5    940.5      0.0   850.6   850.6    18.4    39.3   32.2         0.0    0.0
Khara                  72   1989-90       0.0   1752.2   1752.2     0.0   1251.6   1251.6   306.2   131.0   63.4       0.0     0.0
Lakhwar Vyasi         420   1994-95       0.0  3589.5   3589.5      0.0    446.1   446.1    171.5  327.6   555.6  589.0  624.3
Tehri 1              1000   1995-96       0.0  8965.6  8965.6       0.0   907.7   907.7    12.2  262.1  1944.7  2355.9  1560.8
Koteshwar             300   1995-96       0.0  3631.6  3631.6    0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0   236.7  589.0  936.5
Vishnu Prayag         480   1997-98       0.0  2842.9  2842.9       0.0   200.1   200.1    12.2   17.0   55.6   73.6  780.4                         d  
Maneri- Shali II      304   1994-95       0.0  4394.4  4394.4       0.0  1347.9  1347.9   147.0  262.1  555.6  736.2  624.3                       oQ
Tapovan, Vishnugad,  495   X th. Plan    0.0  3593.5  3593.5        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   41.7   73.6  1092.5                   m l m
Sowala & Nandprayag.                     ----      .....----    ....    .---                  ----   ....    ....    -        ....
Sub-Total Hydro                           0.0  32304.4  32304.4    0.0  7543.9  7543.9   667.5  1072.6  3506.3  4417.3  5618.8                     0
TOTAL GENERATION                      15038.6  56481.9  71520.5  748.8  25145.7  25894.5  5435.5  5268.3  6980.0  7708.4  8368.8          eh ,            '



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
PRIORITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(YEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
(In Rs Million)
Estimated              Expenditures upto
Total Proj. Costs             March 1988               Projected totaL expenditures in
B)   TRANSMISSION   PROJECTS:     Date   of    .......................    .......................    .......................................
Commisng.   Forn.    Local    TotaL    Forn.   Local    Total   FY 1989 FY 1990 FY 1991 FY 1992 FY 1993
...... ..... ........ .....  ........    .....  .......    .....    .....   ... ..    ---    .......  .......... ......... .. ...... ..........
Under Construction
Ar4ara Tapping(400kV)                      0.0     11.6      11.6     0.0     10.2      10.2      1.3     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
NAPP - KhurjaC22OkV)                       0.0     42.9     42.9      0.0     31.3     31.3      11.6     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
NAPP Tapping                               0.0      4.5      4.5      0.0      4.5      4.5      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Meerut - NAPP                              0.0     51.8     51.8      0.0     51.8     51.8       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Azamgarh - Jaurnur                         0.0     40.2     40.2      0.0     37.1     37.1       3.1     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Unchahar - Lucknow                         0.0    124.0    124.0      0.0    124.0    124.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Unchahar - Fatehpur                        0.0     72.8      72.8     0.0     72.8     72.8       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Fatehpur Tapping                           0.0     15.3    15.3       0.0     15.3     15.3      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Moradabad - CB Ganj.                       0.0     46.8     46.8      0.0     46.8     46.8       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
132 kV Lines                               0.0    375.8   375.8       0.0    375.8    375.8      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Sub-Total                                  0.0   785.6    785.6       0.0    769.6    769.6      16.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Planned
Anpara'9'-Unmao(800/400kV)                 0.0   1438.4   1438.4      0.0     13.0     13.0    183.7   87.4   196.3   382.8   575.3
Tehri-Meerut-NCR                           0.0   1094.2   1094.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    21.0   249.7
Anpara'8'- Vanarasi                        0.0    555.9   555.9       0.0      6.5      6.5      76.5    56.2    74.5   117.8  224.5
Unnao-Panki                                0.0     70.9      70.9     0.0      1.2       1.2     19.6    22.3    18.1     9.7      0.0
Agra-Moradnagar                            0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
LILO of Rishikesh - Muzzafarnagar          0.0     31.3     31.3      0.0      0.8      0.8      9.6    11.2      9.8     0.0      0.0
LILO Anpara - Azamgarh                     0.0     14.9      14.9     0.0      0.8      0.8       9.4     4.7     0.0     0.0      0.0
Agra - Agra NTPC                           0.0     23.2      23.2     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.8     1.4     9.8    11.2      0.0
Panki-Agra                                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Varanasi-Azamgarh-Gorakhpur                0.0    505.6   505.6       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     2.0   132.5   200.7
LILO of Obra-Panki at Atiahabod            0.0     26.4    26.4       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
LILO of Panki-Moradragar at Etah           0.0     26.4    26.4       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Urnao-Lucknow-Bareilli                     0.0    595.4   595.4       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0    27.1   132.5   226.4
Srinagar-Tehri-Rishikesh                   0.0    360.6   360.6       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0    41.7   147.2  lfl-7
Moradnagar Diversion(220kV)                0.0      6.1      6.1      0.0      2.7      2.7       3.4     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
LILO Allahabad-Karpur                      0.0      1.9       1.9     0.0      1.9      1.9       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Rishikesh - Uttarkashi                     0.0     79.8    79.8       0.0      1.4      1.4      60.1    18.3     0.0     0.0      0.0
Div. of 220kV at Agra                      0.0     28.5      28.5     0.0      0.0      0.0      13.4    15.1     0.0      0.0     0.0
Barelli-Badaun                             0.0     34.9      14.9     0.0      0.0      0.0      10.3    19.7     4.9     0.0      0.0
LILO Lucknow-Unchahar                      0.0     41.2     41.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      16.4    19.7     5.0     0.0      0.0
Khara-Saharanpur                           0.0     37.4     37.4      0.0      3.8      3.8      12.2    11.6     9.8     0.0      0.0
Khara - Shamli                             0.0     79.0    79.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      18.4    32.8    27.8     0.0      0.0
Varanasi-Ghazipur                          0.0     56.2     56.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    13.1    20.9    22.2      0.0
LILO of Panki-Moradnagar                   0.0     12.5      12.5     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    12.5
LILO of Mazaffarnagar-Rfshikesh            0.0      3.1      3.1      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      3.1                IV > D
CB Ganj-Altorah                            0.0    134.8   134.8       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    22.2    54.6                 oc Ft
LILO of Obra-Allahbad                      0.0     15.2      15.2     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     C.0     7.4      7.9                0  > 0
ALlahbad-PhuLpur                           0.0     45.9    45.9       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    14.7    31.2                 Ni::
Khurja-Jahangirbad                         0.0     32.2     32.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    15.6
132 kV Lines                               0.0    273.4    273.4      0.0     51.4     51.4    147.1    26.2    48.7      0.0      0.0                 l    .
Sub-Total                                  0.0  5625.4  5625.4        0.0     83.4     83.4    581.0  339.8  49f.4  1021.2  17M7.1                       Ft
TOTAL TRANSMISSION                         0.0   6411.0   6411.0      0.0    853.0    853.0    597.0   339.8   49f.4  1021.2  17M7.1
=.=================s==== ============ ==========================================.===



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
PRIORITY INVESTMENT PROGRAN
(YEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
(In Rs MNilion)
C)   SUB-STATIONS,DISTRIBWTION,                     Estimated                Expenditures upto
COMPOSITE, REC & OTHER                     Total Proj. Costs               March 1988             Projected total expenditures in
PROJECTS                     Date   of    ......................     ......................   .......................................
Commisng.   Forn.    Local   Total     Forn.  Local    Total   FY 1989 FY 1990 FY 19"1 FY 1992 FY 1993
Substation(U/C)
Azamgarh(400kV)                           0.0    169.8   169.8    0.0    162.8   162.8          7.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Rishikesh                                 0.0    162.4   162.4    0.0    162.4   162.4          0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Moradabad                                 0.0    142.9   142.9    0.0    142.9   142.9          0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Moradnagar Extn.                          0.0     29.5      29.5     0.0     29.5    29.5       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Lucknow Extn.                             0.0      17.6    17.6    0.0       14.0    14.0       3.7     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Sultanpur Extn.                           0.0     41.1      41.1     0.0     34.8    34.8       6.2     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Panki Extn.                               0.0      18.9    18.9      0.0     12.8     12.8      6.1     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Microwave                                 0.0    282.7   282.7    0.0    127.7   127.7    49.6   105.4    0.0           0.0      0.0
220 kV Substations(20 in total)           0.0   548.1   548.1    0.0    269.9    269.9         57.4    91.7   66.1    62 8       0.0
132 kV Substations                        0.0    672.0    672.0    0.0    407.5    407.5    106.6   91.7    66.1        0.0     0.0
Sub-Total                                 0.0   2084.9  2084.9    0.0   1364.3  1364.3   236.7  288.8   132.3   62.8             0.0
Substation(Plamned)
Tehri(800kV)                              0.0   1003.4   1003.4    0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   234.1
Meerut(800kV)                             0.0   1003.4   1003.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   234.1
Varanasi(400kV)                           0.0    338.3   338.3       0.0     10.3     10.3    91.6    75.4    72.8    88.3       0.0                      I
Umao                                      0.0    341.7   341.7    0.0        25.2     25.2     78.7   76.3   66.1    95.4        0.0
Muzzafarnagar                             0.0    345.2   345.2       0.0      9.0      9.0    102.1    72.6   66.1    95.4       0.0                     a'
Agra                                      0.0    175.8   175.8    0.0        12.7    12.7    55.4    36.4    39.7   31.6         0.0
Moradnagar                                0.0    109.4   109.4       0.0     14.4     14.4    95.1    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
S.S.Plnd. for 8th. Plan(2400MVA)          0.0   1102.7   1102.7    0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    19.8  350.0  234.1
Static VAR System                       119.7   432.5    552.1       7.6      1.5      9.1    119.6   37.1   104.5   203.8    78.0
220kV Substations(8 in total)             0.0    400.5   400.5       0.0     66.3     66.3    84.8   36.4    72.8   140.2        0.0
S.S. Ptnd. for 8th. Plan(1532MVA)         0.0    642.0   642.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    56.6   187.9   124.9
132 kV Substations                        0.0   1370.3   1370.3      0.0     87.3     87.3    161.5   80.2   112.4  416.2   160.9
Sub-Total                               119.7  7265.3  7384.9        7.6    226.6   234.2   788.8  414.5   610.9  1608.7  1066.2
TOTAL SUBSTATIONS                       119.7  9350.2   9469.8       7.6   1590.9   1598.5   1025.5   703.3   743.2  1671.5  1066.2
Distribution
66kv & 33kV                               0.0   3850.6   3850.6      0.0    722.8    722.8    278.0   327.8   369.2   428.1   497.8
System Improvement                        0.0   3574.1   3574.1      0.0    670.9    670.9    258.0   304.2   342.7  397.4   462.0
New Works                                 0.0   4890.8   4890.8      0.0    918.0    918.0    353.1   416.3   468.9   543.8   632.2
TOTAL DISTRIBUTION                        0.0  12315.5  12315.5      0.0   2311.7  2311.7   889.1  1048.3  1180.8  1369.3  1592.0
Other Tr.,Distr.&S.S.Work                 0.0  9187.9  9187.9        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  144.1   944.6  1619.7  1872.9
Composite Power Project
Harduaganj Boiler         1991-92     438.2    265.6    703.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      8.8   119.3   200.8   213.1   161.7
Obra Coal Handling Plant  1991-92     364.9   341.5    706.4       2.0      5.4      7.4    190.0  226.3   197.5    85.2       0.0                    > D
Srinagar Hydro Project    1995-96    2199.5   3332.6  5532.1       0.0    85.1      85.1    194.7  620.5  1097.5  1419.1  1207.1                
Transmission Project      1992-94     772.8    979.3   1752.1      0.0      2.5      2.5     17.6  311.0  304.7  399.9  336.7           
Consultancy Services      1994-95      17.0      11.8    28.8      0.3      3.5      3.8      8.3     6.7     5.8     4.5      2.0                 w
TOTAL COMPOSITE PROJECT               3792.4  4930.8  8723.2        2.3    96.5      98.8   419.4  1283.8  1806.3  2121.8  1707.5                      3
0 .
Other Works(RBD,Micr.Hyd.&Invest.)        0.0  12586.2  12586.2      0.0   7760.2   7760.2    381.5   551.6   625.1   684.7   764.8                    rt
Rural Electrification                     0.0  11383.8  11383.8      0.0   1865.7   1865.7    639.0  1130.2  1222.4  1413.5  1529.6
TOTAL SUB-STATIONS, ETC.                 3912.1  59754.3  63666.4      9.9  13625.0  13634.9   3354.4  4861.4  6522.4  8880.6  8532.9
= ==========s===============================================:====== === 33                                                       ==



IA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PR- '-CT
Uttar Pradesh State ELectricity Board
Existing Organization Chart
& iwlS4t|4I HW
OPNothn & kiW nac                               mmft|  t  ht |50  1  
Pow DStoWins                  Conbod& |         Rutd EbkK|.Cotot                 J5id1           l 
Rosident MmogI w              M-0hv      I        fcdbn                                             C AdN_l   
H           f i    |          qmbmc  Cost Cond    CSo0s 
I &    i    I                    it P
I  Waft   h a        Iwfr  COnlJcb     I                                                             O*5 &
A,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
L~~~~~~~~~~~L J~~~~~~~~ 
|   SysWem Conbdl                                                           31
world nt- E31 t 10



INDIA
UrTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
Proposed Revised Chart
|CHAIRMAN 
,~~~~~~~~~~~PRTN                                   IN.T.R-AL
I MEMBER                        MEMBER           MEMBER             MEMBER          
MEMBERS                      GENERATION &                   CORPORATE        DISTRIBUTION       FINANCE             SECRETARY
MEMBS FR                      TRANSMISSION                    FUNCTIONS     _ COMMERCIAL   _&ACCONT
rAUDITS &                            l O
DESIGN &                            |                                  PLANNEICNG  MERCIACCOMM oNWrrrED_
CONSTRUC- _     ANPARA   _     _    OBRA   l  |DESIGN|r 
TION                                     l                                                                      ERSONNEL |
R            q ~~~~~SERVICES         DESIGN              FNCE|              |VIGIACE
MGMTRA                                                   VIDSTIL
-I  PARICHA  I I CONTROL 6 1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ELAIO
I~~~~~~~~~~TANN                        OPRTN             INTERNALG Ir  
ENGINEER ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                  ~ANU |WESRAINSTP|
FUNCTIONAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ENRA COTRALs
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SPORTS WEST
ADMINI-     >W%40



- 70-
-                               ~~~~Ann~ex 2.3
no". Pme  6146401   STATISTICS
Its". Ibits
ITASISQ        P1115  IN 516411      cw0rt                             UIT OTILIz4IIUo                                             i(613lUo                       11FFttl46
lTOTAL AS PA    31,1914           Is 196416             TeTrm.       M M    31.1917      toMM 199ISof9 OcamS
w Km.
UNIT  MOn WOO 1044615.111172              5W6S4  N6146  P10 V             66Nat  UTILI.IlTIU                44966  PO  VW0
OF     IN                          MM        MM  uTILI.1411U        ml                    IAETIU   EL         C.P. Isi   KM.  C.F. III C.F. 1cl
(1101.    9151 E IN    to)          (N.I    i46el    Ill            (63        it)          46601     i6l        III    1IaI      IllII 1          104.1
OVA4          I.  Jal?i    21         IS    56.5       164056   5414.2       .6.2         2067     9.30        4217.6    211.!       0.56     92.4   71.0  21.         66
2.  Feb-61    49       56     41.1       546459   4527.6      0.52         292       0.23       3441.1   166.4        6.43    121.0   62.2  32.9        0.69
3.  644-O       14     56    0.S        112SS    am5.?7       6.4          4775      9.55       4311.2    464.2       6.54    175.?   73.4  49.2        .0.1
4.  JWm-4      to      56     41.?      146217  0649.4        6.70         4234      6.71        4549.9   252.9       0.16  235.2   75.5  44.1          C."9
S.  1.n-lI      14     5      42.4       929    5699.0        6.4?         5725      U.4         3917.7   241.6       0.50    215.2    Me.  57.         OS1I
114-7.t,6                            25      037.1                                                            2192.2                         62.?
hmu p                                                  WI 165 6 54.4         0.44         4452      0.51                 231.1       0.51             75.5  44.0       0.69
Om  [Ito I    I.  2.l1-3      14    ISO    it. 3        71946   577.9        6.4 4A7A4             0.77         5445.2   395.2       0.45    404.0   59.9  44.1        0.06
2 .  Nvc-b     12      Me  6 4.1         572337   4477.7      0.13         5S6       6.64       3Si4.2   32.9          6.37    35.0   44.3  5.9         0.64
3.  leg-?      12    106    (A.I         4362    5521.5       0.43         3I74      0.34       4111.0   344.2        0.61    196.    44.0  32.9        0,64
hO-Total                             344   204.5                                                               113354.6                      632.4
kuwrqe                                                  44442   5227.0       0.41         356      0.46                  360.6       0.61             41.4  32.2       0.64
Om  0116.    I.  36.-SO        7     206   164.2        23177  6427.3        6.52         4114     4.461       4742.9   644.4        6.33    56.4    49.6  65.9        0.54
It % III      2.  2.m-f9       5     246   121.4         =I  3533           6.46         3706      6.43        247.6    461.5        0.24    462.9   46.0  32.4        0.77
3.    ec-fl     9     206    1216        39216  4247.5        6.46         626       6.7         5174.5   559.1       0.32   "L.I    75,4  69.          0.77
4.  6w41        6     20    146.1        27770  4642.1        6.52         254       0.29       4152.1   491.6        0.46    417.5   61.9  32.2        0.77
S.  Jul-62      5      2M    IS9.I       Zan7  5536.6         6.42         7645      0.10        4443.1   649.6       0.49   1047.4   n5.o 7.6          0.77
Sub-Total                           1666   766.7                                                              21942.4                       3427.4
4.049                                                   31462   4514.4       6.52         4776     0.54                  050.7       0.34             77.1 59.5        3.79
Total Obr                           1556   1t6LS                                                              54442.0                       512S.1
vsmug. 6Okr                                                                 0.S9                   0.410                                                     4.9
WNA          I.  FI4-16       I    210       210       16124   1477.0      0.I9                   6.06         225.6      0.6               427.0         22.2
2.  F06-87      0     216      210           0      6.6       6.64                   0.60         102.6     06.                               0.0
Sob-Total                            420      426                                                               427.4                        427.0
Iuraqe                                                    Ila   636.51      6.16         6.4       0.46                   0.66       0.46             0.00  11.4       0.00
"atI          I.  kt-O7    21         32       52       42973  3229.2        6.37         2906     6.34        3162.4   163.2        0.41     72.4   77.5  24.2        0.43
2.  JiG-OS     19      32       32       36476   21645.       0.24          544     0.16         2462.3   132.4       0.42     13.1   02.4  4.1         0.43
3.  64.-li    to    ITS        110       49046   4731.4       0.54         7135     6.61          Me2.    412.1       0.43    554.2   74.9  57.7        0.50
4.  iv-??      to    tie       110       44731   4441.4       0.30         4972      0.60       4620.6   461.6        6.42    346.3   70.5  56.1        4.60
So*-total                            21       214                                                             13947.1                       1163.0
hveroq                                                  49205   3472.0       6.42        4440      0.56                  277.2       0.52             '2.0 6 Z4       0.72
P06lIA         I .  6W-44      2     Its      Ito        763   2412.7       0.36         5410      0.46         079.7   224.4        0.24    667.9t   79.1  5 0.6      0.'?
2.  1.4-6       2    Ito       It0        6452   4027.9       0.44        5762      0.42         757.4   341.7        0.37    677.6   14.2  49.4        0.71
4*tail                               220      22                                                                I621                         965.7
&map                                                     6145   332.3        6.36        545       .6.4                  294.1       0.31             77.46.  0I .74
INh1I          I.  Nta-0      is      30       21      12564566W.            0.66         3022     6.35          MgU.     69.1                26.4   22.4 11.4         0.91
2.  Jl-42      25      so       24      12925     22.3I      6464          294      0.34        2361J      9.3                 30.6   34.4  17.4        0."4
3.  NA,-Mo     Zs      36       30      15472   4546.5        0.?!         3150      6.44       3413.1   140.2        0.43     44.5   57.5  22.2        0."1
Sob-TlS                               90       70                                                              7652.3                        L17.
0wvp                                                   12521   5416.6        0.44         3275     0.37                  109.2       0.21             30.1  16.1       0.16
UmlIsIff       I .  6W-O      It      56       56      164136  55451.0        .           4 0.34    4           365.6M    220.       6.3    L1664    14.1  41.3        0.6
2.  Jaml       to      56       so       62671   4515.5       6,52        535       6.41        $340.4   169.         0.43    196.    76.0  45.2        0.62
3.  J.i-72     I i      55      3 55     11614       521.     06.1         4142     4.4?         3474.0   229.1       6 .4?    14.4.   12.2  34.1       0.66
4.  Sep-7      is      55       55       72001   4943.2       04.7         mu3      0.37        366.6   212.4         .0.4    104.7   70.3  44.4        0.11
SeS-etol                             219      2to                                                              1439.6                        731.6
41wa6                                                   6534    5699.7 I      .3          4612     6.55                  215.0       6.47             n.4  46.3        0.61
1053614       I1.  say-f7    to       06       40       44464   454.6.       6.52         71?!     6.62        2044.6   269.9        0.39    346.3   66.9  .4.3        0.63
2.  OCt-77      9       06      06       2592   2753.6        0.36         7633      O."         1152.0   122.2       6.23    333.4   79I 43.5          0.62
3.  ear-l       9    Ito       Ito       399M   4522.7        9.52         2162     6.20        2111.0   322.3        0.34    1S4.1   79.7  19.t        0.61
Sub-etaI                             22  234                                                                    4649".6                      644.2
60.4.                                                   36170    TS11.S      6.45         5457     0.42                  216.2       0.32             79.9  69.4       6.612
total mwubqinj                       520      510                                                             2617.3                        1721.4
Avers"  IIugsuaoz                                                            0.54                  6.52                              6.33             42.2  34.0       0.17
TMAL WM1                            3664   255.5                                                              106410.5                      4425.2
.VME                                                                         0.64                   0.45                 29.1        6 .35            41.1  39.2       0.61,
C.F.1. I cqapacty Fgtw  bowase     aw*o gawalsam  WIeg t44 VeW  11744491.1 t bring inot acmt the aeealS capoctt.
C.F.SM1 Ceoity F4ttW Owing ettiotatme Wlsi taktig Into accmt the r6.tiw6 amidl ca:stuW
C.F.klt 1144(ty Fsttw Nwvle t4, VWn (VIA6 br.1 taSieS mtet accust 144 ruepectlie u66f1tu. c4(ltls.



- 71 -
Annex 2.4
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Average Electricity Rates in 1987/88
(Paisa/kWh)
Domestic                                          67.40
Commercial                                        85.45
Agriculture                                       24.57
Industrial (Intermediate Tension)                 86.00
Surcharge                                         10.59
Industrial (High Tension)                         89.53
Surcharge                                         10.59
Public Lighting                                   68.89
Traction                                          97.00
Surcharge                                         10.59
Public Water Works                                99.00
Bulk Supply                                       26.00
Out of the State                                  47.50
Weighted Average                                  65.54



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 10
JTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
SRINAGAR HYDROELECTRIC SCHEME
Principal Features
1.      The main features of the Srinagar hydroelectric scheme are as
follows:
Average flow                                       351 cubic meters/s
Reservoir storage                                   78 M cubic meters
Live storage                                         9 M cubic meters
Average operational level                       600.70 m
Submergence area                                   292 ha
Dam height over river bed                           65 m
Dam length (concrete section)                      232 m
Length of spillway section                          70 m
Crest of spillway section                        590.0 m
Number of radial gates                               5
Size of radial gates                       14 m x 15.8 m
Number of bellmouth intakes                          10
Size of intake opening                      8 m x 10.3 m
Size of sedimentation basin                169 m x 145 m
Channel length                                   3,900 m
Channel section                                    178 sq. meters
Number of penstocks                                  6
Diameter and length of penstocks                   4.5 m/86 m
Number and capacity of units                    6 x 55 MW
Total installed capacity                           330 MW
Type of turbines                              Vertical Francis
Capacity of generators                          64,700 kVA
Voltage of station transformers              .l-kV/400 kt'
Switchyard configuration                        Double bus



- 73 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 10
Basin Development and Site Selection
2.      The Ganga Valley upstream basin, mainly comprising the Bhagirathi
and Alakhanda rivers and their tributaries, has a catchment area of
21,373 sq. km. up to the foothills, out of which the snow covered area is
8,609 sq. km. Most of the tributaries upstream of the River Ganga originate
from the glacial region of the Himalayas and carry large perennial discharge.
The average quantum of water inflow into the River Ganga at the foothills is
about 18,600 million cubic meters (Mcm) a year. The Ganga Basin has a large
potential for hydro-power development, on the order of 8,000 MW. It is
proposed that this potential be tapped by constructing several
hydroelectrical schemes. A Master Plan for harnessing the power potential of
Ganga Basin in the Himalayas was prepared in 1960 in close consultation with
the then Central Water and Power Commission, New Delhi. So far, 26
hydropower development schemes have been identified, out of which two have
already been completed and commissioned, five are under construction, and the
remaining 19 are at various stages of investigation and preparation. The
proposed Uttar Pradesh (Srinagar) Hydroelectric Project on the Alaknada
tributary was selected as the least cost alternative after completion of
basic site investigations. These investigations indicated that the project
is a comparatively simple scheme for power generation as it does not involve
extensive underground works. As a result, there are also fewer uncertainties
and risks involved in project implementation which should allow it to be
completed within a relatively short period of time.
Geology
3.      Geological investigations have been carried out in the reservoir and
works areas. These indicated that the northern part of the area (reservoir,
dam, intake structures and sedimentation basin areas) would be located within
the so-called Carhwal group of rocks consisting of quartzites, metabasics,
limestones and slates with thin lenticles of limestones and metabasics. The
northern part of the project area (power channel and power house) would be
located within phyllites. In the reservoir area, no watertightness problems
or major slide occurences are expected, for a rather large but superficial
erosion area located some 10 km upstream of the dam site. Maintenance works
are provided and will continue without affecting the reservoir impounding or
vice-versa. On Lhe dam site, the rock is generally compact and sound.
However, impermeabilization and consolidation grouting would be performed as
required. The outdoor power station is located in an area where the
foundation would be fully in the rock outside the river alluvium.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 10
Hydrology
4.      The catchment area of the River Alaknanda at the dam site is
10,215 sq. km. Discharge data at the dam site have been available since
1980. In addition, data have been available from an upstream station, at
Rudrapayag Utyasu, since 1967 and from a downstream station, at Raiwala,
since 1901. The annual average flows at Srinagar have been estimated at
351 cubic meters/s (cm/s). For the purpose of spillway design, a flood
discharge of 10,400 cubic metersis has been adopted equivalent to a frequency
of 1 in 100 years while the freeboard has been designed for a flood discharge
of 1 in 1000 years (14,100 cm/s).
Sediments
5.      The rivers originating from the southern slopes of the Himalaya
Mountains are characterized by extreme rolling bed load and suspended silt
transport, especially during the monsoon period. For the Srinagar catchment
area, no data about bed load conditions are available. Therefore, estimates
and comparisons have been made on the basis of observations in similar basins
located nearby. Under these conditions, any estimates of the time required
for fully sedimenting the reservoir appear quite hazardous, because both bed
and silt loads vary within ilmost undefined limits depending on the magnitude
and duration of high river discharge. However, reliable estimates ultimately
are irrelevant because sooner or later, depending on the actual hydrological
conditions, the reservoir -- only around 78 Mcm -- will be filled with either
silt and/or bed load. As a result, flushing facilities have been provided
through the spillway, and their operation would ensure that an available live
or useful storage of around 9 Mcm would be maintained at the intake level.
In addition, a sedimentation basin would be installed downstream from the
intake structures. Its size and number of hoppers have been designed in
order to eliminate suspended particles above 0.15 mm.
Overall Design and Construction Works
6.      The concrete gravity structure adopted for the dam is the most
appropriate in this case, for the following reasons: (i) diversion facilities
would be cheaper, and in case flood occurence exceeded the diversion system
capacity, overtopping of the works during the construction period would not
cause irreparable damage; (ii) flood discharge facilities would be
accommodated in the dam structure, which is appropriate for this case where
the valley is relatively narrow; (iii) this type of dam is easier to
implement and construction works can be phased taking into account the river
flow during the high water season. The other works and facilities are quite
conventional. In particular, in the power house the design and
specifications would be such that the runners could easily be removed in
order to facilitate maintenance and repairs in case of silt erosion.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 4 of 10
Environment
7.      Because the submergence area and civil works infrastructure are
small, only 350 ha would have to be acquired for the whole proposed Project.
Approximately 59 families (around 340 people) would be affected, but no
family would lose all its land. In addition, there are no ethnic tribes
involved. Cash compensation would be provided for land, structures, and all
other assets lost. In addition, one permanent job per affected family would
be provided. The forest and vegetation affected generally are degraded,
impoverished, or absent (bare rock, cliffs), hence wildlife is not an issue.
Equivalent land has been acquired and handed over to the Forest Department
for carrying out compensatory afforestation; this would be implemented during
a period of three years.  In a larger context, 1.5% of the total project cost
would go towards implementation of a catchment treatment action plan by the
Department of Environment covering the overall upstream Ganga Basin.
Finally, water-borne diseases are not expected to become a problem for the
following three reasons:  (i) the project will be operated by run-of-river,
so fewer disease vector-breeding habitats will be created; (ii) the project's
altitude will make temperatures inimical to the proliferation of the aquatic
vector proliferation for most months of the year; and (iii) the project is
located far from the country's known foci of bilharzia and malaria, and
adequate precautions ire taken to prevent any increase.
River Discharge and Plant Operation
8.      The discharge availability for power generation has been calculated
on average cubic meters per second (cm/s) over periods of 10 days. However,
as already stated above (para 4), actual discharges of river Alaknanda at
Srinagar dam site have only been observed during the most recent years.
Therefore, the discharge figures of river Ganga at Raiwala -- the downstream
station -- have been correlated to the discharge of the river Alaknanda at
Rudraprayag Utyasu -- the upstream station - using the Longbein's log
deviation method and thereafter transferred to the Srinagar dam site by
increasing the discharges at Srinagar for the additional catchment area
between Rudraprayag and Srinagar with the help of the Dicken's formula.
Accordingly, the estimated discharges were calculated for the period
1945-1985. The discharge estimates were used to calculate the energy
generation and power output of the plant in relation to the discharges
required in case of different options regarding the installed capacity. The
optimum installed capacity has eventually been fixed at 330 MW, and the plant
would irclude six units of 55 MW each, in order to ensure operational
flexibility. The energy potential of the plant has then been computed -- in
NW of output -- on the basis of respectively 90% and average availability of
river discharge and taking into account the plant design discharge --
550 cm/s maximum -- and the net operational head of 66.8 m based on the
difference between the average upstream level at the reservoir (600.7 m) and
the downstream level at the tailrace (533.5 m) minus losses. The results of
EH



- 76 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 5 of 10
the study show that during the monsoon period (June to September), all the
machines in the powerhouse will be running to their fullest capacity. In
addition, when the river discharge exceeds 550 cm/s, part of the discharge
will be spilt over through the spillway. During the rest of the year, the
plant will be operated on a run-of-the-river basis and generate as much power
as possible in relation to the river discharge and therewith contribute to
supply the base load of the system. In particular, during the low flow
season, when the river discharge could be as low as 85 cm/s, daily
regulation, through the live storage capacity of the reservoir (9 Mcm), would
be used to supply energy during peak time when its economic value is at the
highest. The expected annual generation of the proposed station would be
around 1,323 GWh in an average year, which results in a plant utilization
factor of about 47%.
Downstream Effects of the Project
9.      The total Lapacity of the reservoir of 78 Mcm represents around 0.7%
of the average annual discharge of the river. The capacity is therefore even
more marginal when compared with the average discharge in the Ganga basin in
which the Alaknanda river discharge accounts for an average of 1-2.. With
such a small capacity, the reservoir could be filled in a few hours during
the monsoon season and there would not be any harmful effect downstream. The
storage capacity below the spillway crest, corresponding to 69 Mcm, would
remain as dead storage, which would gradually be filled with silt and
bculders carried along by the river, and would not be depleted. The
remaining live storage capacity of 9 Mcm would provide the useful reservoir
capacity operated at an average level of 600.7 m. This storage is very
limited and would correspond to only around one day of dry season flow of
85 cm/s. During the dry season operation, the useful capacity would
therefore be depleted within a few hours for peak power generation, and
refilled during the rest of the day. The live storage is much too small to
have any longer effect than a daily regulation of the flow. At times, there
would be daily variations of flow and these would be felt for some distance
below the dam site; however they would be rapidly smoothed out downstream
when the Alaknanda river joins the Gat-ga river and other tributaries and
where the flow is already regulated by existing barrages.
REHABILITATION OF HARDUAGANJ THERMAL POWER STATION
Background
1.      The Harduagani thermal power station is located in the southwestern
part of Uttar Pradesh (IBRD Map 19911) and has a total installed capacity of
530 MW. It includes two main complexes: the first, the Harduaganj "A"
station, would be the object of the proposed rehabilitation and the second,
the Harduaganj "B" station, includes (i) two units of 50 MW, (ii) two units
of 55 NW, (iii) two units of 60 MW, and (iv) one unit of 110 MW, totalling



- 77 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 6 of 10
440 MW. Harduaganj "A" station was installed in 1962-64. It included four
stoker-fired steam generators and two 30-MW turbogenerators in an initial
stage commissioned in 1962, to which were added in 1964, two pulverized
coal-fired steam generators and one 30-MW turbogenerator. Connection between
the steam generators and turbines was made through a steam collector.  The
stoker-fired boilers are of outdated technology and have deteriorated
appreciably, resulting in unreliable operation, forced shutdowns, and high
maintenance costs. In addition, they are not suitable for coal with high ash
content and excessive fines, which is the type of coal actually supplied to
the power station. As a resit, the capacity factor of the station is well
below normal (17% in 1986) and O&M costs have increased considerably. The
other equipment -- the pulverized steam generator and the turbogenerators --
are in better operating condition and still have a useful life of at least
ten years. In addition, these components recently were rehabilitated.
Therefore, the Project would include replacement of the four existing
stoker-fired boilers and rehabilitation nf main auxiliary installation.
Principal Features
Steam Generators
2.      The existing stoker-fired boilers would be replaced with two 160 t/hr
atmospheric fluidized bed boilers designed for firing low grade coal. They
would be bottom supported with (nonreheat) steam at 70 kg/sq. centmeter and
52 degrees centigrade at the superheater outlet. The fluidized bed
technology has been selected taking into account the size of the boilers, for
which the technology is now operational, the poor and variable quality of
coal (2,300 - 3,500 kcal/kg, 6-17% moisture, and up to 75% ash content), and
the economic cost when compared with the alternative of pulverized boilers
which are more appropriate for larger capacity boilers. The main steam pipes
for the new steam generators would be connected to the existing steam
collector from where steam for the three turbines is drawn. Similarly,
suitable interconnection from the existing feed water header would be
provided to feed to the two new boilers. Necessary modifications in
steam/water pipelines also would be made.
Auxiliary Installation
3.      An additional coal handling system of 400 t/hr would be installed
based on a wagon tippler's discharge system, equivalent to the existing
system, and including two streams of conveyors and two stages of crushers.
Interconnecting conveyors would feed the coal from the new coal plant to the
existing coal handling plat when needed. Similalrly, when coal is not
required at the boiler bunkers, the coal would be stored in the stockyard
and reclaimed as required. The installation would also include an ash
handling system that would collect bottom and fly ash from both the existing
pulverized boiler and the new fluidized bed boilers. The ash would be



- 78 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 7 of 10
discharged into a slurry sump and transported to a disposal area by means of
slurry pumps and transport piping. The water system would also be arranged
in order to cope with the new installation. The system would include: (i)
provision of raw water from borewell water and storage reservoir, (ii) steam
generator make-up ar,d auxiliary cooling requirements, and (iii) service water
and fire protection system. rVnally, the auxiliary electrical system would
also be reinforced with the addition of one 15 MVA 132/66-kV auto-transformer
in order to ensure reliability of supply for the station auxiliaries
presently fed through the 66-kV system. The local network would be
reinforced accordingly.
Environment
4.      The steam generators would be provided with electrostatic
precipitators to collect the fly ash from the flue gases before it leaves
the stack. The precipitators would be sized to meet air pollution limits.
A common stack of 120-meters in height would ensure adequate dispersion of
the flue gases. Similarly. the effluent of the water treatment plant would
be neutralized before being led into the plant drainage system. A dust
control system also would be provided in the wagon tippler area, conveyor
belt sys.tem, crusher house and coal stockyard in order to minimize dust
factor.
COAL HANDLING SYSTEM AT OBRA THERMAL POWER STATION
Principal Features
1.      The Obra thermal power station complex, with its 1,550 MW of
installed capacity, is one of the largest thermal power plants in operation
in India. IL is located in the district of Mirzapur in the southeastern part
of Uttar Pradesh (IBRD Map 19911). The existing coal handling system
installed at the 5 x 200 MW section of the power station was commissioned
in 1978 and was designed for a capacity of 1,500 t/hr. The capacity was
determined by the boiler requirements which were designed to burn coal with a
calorific value of 4,750 kcal/kg a;d a 28% ash content. However, since then,
the coal handling system has been unable to meet the maximum continuous
rating requirement even when five units are operating simultaneously. This
is because: (i) coal quaity has been degraded, with the average useful heat
value actually being below 3,500 kcal/kg and the ash content being 40%, and
(ii) the design and equipment used in the existing coal handling system are
deficient. As a result, the existing system is handling around 600 t/hr,
whereas the actual requirement with the present quality of coal is about
800 t/hr. Assuming the boilers operate continuously and the coal handling
system operates for 12 hours a day, the shortfall is about 1,000 t/hr, which
would be the design capacity for the additional system.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 8 of 10
2.      Coal would be received by means of bottom discharge wagons that would
unload into a track hopper system while the train was in motion. The track
hopper would be 200 m long. Two belt conveyors, each of 1,000 t/hr capacity
with a width of 1,400 mm and a speed of 1.3 m/sec., would be provided below
the track hopper. From the conveyors, the coal would be fed to two stages of
crushers where the coal would be crushed from an expected lump size of 600 mm
to 125 and 200 mm, respectively. The coal crushed would then either be used
to feed the boilers of the units or be stacked for future feed on the bunkers
through stacker reclaimers. Provision would be made to ensure appropriate
interconnection between the existing and the proposed sysr...-ils.
Railway Wagons
3.      The proposed track hopper system has been selected as an alternative
to the existing system in which coal is received in conventional wagons and
unloaded through three wagon tipplers. In the existing system, large
boulders in the coal cause frequent damage and choking of the hopper grids in
wagon tipplers. In addition, during the monsoon season, the large percentage
of fines becomes slurry, also choking the chutes and crushers. In addition,
a minimum of three wagon tipplers would be required to meet the handling
capacity requirements of 1,000 t/hr; this would also require an extensive
marshalling yard. There is no space available for the location of such an
installation. The selected track hopper system would require less space and
has proven to be, in other power stations using similar coal, easier to
operate, more efficient, and less expensive in terms of maintenance and
repair costs. Hoever, the latter system would require the acquisition of
bottom opening wagons. About 220 wagons would be needed, assuming around
10,000 t of coal are transported per day in 55 t wagons over a distance of
about 60 km, and a cycling time of around 30 hours (including
loading/unloading and marshalling times).
Environment
4.      In order to protect the environment and ensure satisfactory working
conditions, a water spray arrangement would be provided to suppress the dust
generated when unloading the coal from wagons. Crusher houses and junction
towers in the conveyor belt system also would be provided with a wet dust
extraction system. Water spray also would be provided in the coal stockyard
in order to suppress the dust generated when stacking and reclaiming the
coal. In addition, all conveyors inside the tunnel, below the bottom
discharge system, and in overhead galleries would be equipped with a
automatic fire detection and sprinkler system. Conveyors running above
ground with slab supports would be equipped with fire hydrants. Furthermore,
the underground tunnels would be ventilated by providing air supply fans of
adequate capacity to ensure a minimum of ten air exchanges per hour.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 9 of 10
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Principal Features
The proposed reinforcement of UPSEB's transmission system includes
transmission lines and substations required to evacuate the power from the
Srinagar hydropower station and from the increased capacity at Harduaganj and
Obra thermal power stations. In addition, it includes the installation of
three satellite stations and a power-line-carrier communication system to
reinforce the telecommunications system. The Project therefore comprises the
following facilities (Map IBRD 19911):
1. Transmission Lines
- Srinagar-Tehri-Rishikesh              400-kV single circuit  100 km
- Srinagar-Moradabad                    400-kV single circuit  240 km
- Line in/line out from                 400-kV double circuit    5 km
Obra-Panki line to Allahabad
- Line in/line out from                 220-kV double circuit    5 km
Harduaganj-Agra line to Hathras
- Line in/line out from                 220-kV double circuit    5 km
Obra-Allahabad line to Mirzapur
- Fatehpur-Banda                        220-kV single circuit   70 km
2. Substations
- Extension of existing 400-kV substations at Rishikesh and Moradabad by
the addition of one 400-kV bay at each station for the respective
incoming Srinagar 400-kV lines;
- New 400-kV substation at Allahabad (double main and transfer bus bars
scheme) including the installation of 2 x 250 MVA 400/220-kV
transformers and associated compensation, protection and auxiliary
equipment;
- New 220-kV substations at Hathras, Banda and Mirzapur (double bus bars
scheme) including the installation of two 100 MVA 220/132-kV
transformers at each of Hathras and Mirzapur substations and one at
Banda, and associated 132-kV bays for outgoing lines, and protection
and auxiliary equipment; and
- Extension of existing 220-kV substation at Fatehpur by the addition of
one 220-kV bay for the outgoing line to Banda.



- 81 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 10 of 10
3. Telecommunication
- Three satellite communication stations located each near Obra
(thermal stations' center), Dehradun (hydroelectric sations center),
and Lucknow (UPSEB load despatch center); and
- Power line carrier communication system for the 400/220/132-kV line
terminals included in the Project.
METERING ON THE 33-KV AND 11-KV SUBTRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Principal Features
1.      UPSEB's subtransmission system includes around 1,000
33/11-kV substations connected to about 2,000 incoming 33-kV fe(.ders and
5,000 outgoing 11-kV feeders. At present, there is no load monitoring at
these voltage levels which represent the interface between the
sub-transmission and distribution systems. Appropriate metering at these
levels would allow the losses and compensation requirements to be monitored
and provide a data base for future planning. Accordingly, UPSEB intends to
install the following meters in the substations:
-   active energy and reactive energy meters and maximum demand
indicators to be installed on the incoming 33-kV feeders. These
meters would be procured under the proposed Project.
-   active energy meters to be installed on the 11-kV outgoing feeders.
These meters are being procured separately.
In addition UPSEB would design and implement a monitoring system to retrieve
and process the data provided by the system.
Meter Testing and Calibration
3.      In order to regularly test and calibrate the above meters, and other
existing meters in the system, each meter test laboratory in the 60
distribution divisions would be equipped with reference meters of 0.5Z
accuracy. In addition, laboratories in the three distribution areas would be
equipped with testing equipment uf 0.1Z accuracy. Every laboratory would
also be equipped with sets-of maintenance instruments and tools.



INDIA
UTrAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh State Electicity Board
Project Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR        1987            1988             41989            11990           11991             1992             11993           '1994            19
QUARTER   I   2   3   4   1  2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1               3   4
I SRINAGAR~ WDROELECTWIC
I 1 Dam. Tunnel. Channel              S- *    S- *   *                                                                                   
I 2 Powerhouse & Switchyard                   - -- - - - - - - -'                                             - - - - -
1 3 Hydraulic Structure- -                                                                                            - - -            -
I 4 Genverating Units                           n*r       ***-                                                             - - -- -                 - - -            -
1 5 Electrical Equipment                                                                                           -       --          - -          - - - - -                - -
2 HARDUAGANJ "A" THERMAL- -                                                                                - - - -
2 1 Boilerf-
2 2 Coal. Ash & Fuel Handling                                                                                                                                                             OD
2 3 Electrical Fquipment                                                            ' - -             - - -
3 OBRA "B THERMAL
3 `1 Coal Handling--.                                                                -       - - --
3 2 Coal Wagons                                     S...I.- -- -                                     
4 TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
4 1 Snnagar 400 kV Svstem                            .'f.                                                                                               
4 2 400 kV Lines & Substatios-- - - - -                                                                                                                 
4 3 200 kV Line & Substations                                                                     -            - -         -
4 4 Telecommunications
5 MISCELLANEOIS                                       I
5   Meters                                                                         -                                    
6   Comnpultes                      - - -                                                                                                            1    V          I-anI
Preparation                                 -       -Manutacturing
.....Riddinig                                               Constructionllnstallation
r3    Ci-ntract Awordj                                                                                                              World Bank-430027



- 83 -
I'IP                                          Annex 3.3
UTT.     "R  FM     CwmT                                 Page  1 of 2
SUINS  ACM k ProJect CWP        t
(NMA MME Nil1im)
Fhuical
Elalin    1~~~UIMIIdU                           Cantluncin
111   lMD  ININL       t FM n - M    u.1111
lrui        SATION      SATION       SSEI    InIEIS Toal         I    _mut
1. DNmTn COSTS
A. LW   . NtCUTION NOCVIL eIE
L                                                39.0            -          -         19.1       -    5U.1  15.0    8,7
n      zn o35                                                     -          -            -       -    25*5  15*0    4.3
CIVIL HOES 1v400.5                                              10.l       9.0         20.3      - 1,641.1  15.0  246.2
ISh-Totl LNG e PW.   TIN AD CIVIL VWES            1.668.0         10.3        To0         39.9      -  1727.7  15.0  259.2
S. EOIJIUPET
PEISTOCKS                                         15.1            -          -            -       -    15.1   5.0    0.3
E - N                                          1,241.6                        - -         -       - 1s241.6   5.0   62.1
IELIMIES                                          91.9          73.3         -         55.1       -   220.8   5.0   11.0
CL WESLIE                                            -         114.0      38.1            -       -   472.1   5.0   23.6
AN WAILG                                            -          23.5          -            -       -    23.5   5.0    1.4
S1115                                                -            -       15909                  1- 5.9  5.0    3.0
ID01-                                                          256.4         -            -       - 256.4   5.0   12.8
1MISSUWU EIIIfIT                                  37.5            -          -         620.2      -   657.7   5.0   32.9
T      MICATII                                      -             -          -         26 4       -    26.4   5.0    1.3
NElEI_S                                                           _          _            *   3830    33.0   5.0    1,9
PFARES                                              -             -          -          0.6       -     0.6   5.0    0.0
Si-Total EaUPflqT                                 1'336.1        472.7      513.0        702.3   33.0 3,117.1   5.0  155.9
C. UeClTN
Il   TlNWUTtATIIN                                 no.5            -          -         53.8    2.0   154.3  10.0   15*4
ECTION mm                                        1".-6                                 263,2    3.0   464.8  10.0   46.5
Sub-Total EECTION                                  2.1               -          -        317.0    5.0   619.1  10.0   61.9
*. AIN NO COLTINCY
LOCAL CONSILTUIT                                 344.3         19.0       20.7        109.2    2.0   495.2  10.0   49.5
fl0E1611Oh CII.TUT                                 6to          2.5        2.7          4.6       -    16.5  10.0    1.7
Sib-Total AN 13 CUTILTUT                            351.0         21.5       23.4        113.3    2.0   511.7  10.0   51.2
Total IRESTENT COSTS                                30702.2         505.0      550.4      17n.0   45.0 5'975.6   8.8  528.1
TotaI MILIE CMSTS                                    3,702.2         505.0      550.4      1,173.0   45.0 5f975.6   8.8  529.1
?b,ucal C ttiznuiut                                 384.3          27.4       29.6         34.2    2.6   523.1   0.0    0.0
fict ComtiglCift                                   1.474.4        171.3      126.5        435.3   12.0 29219.5   3.1  110.6
Toal NCT C0STS                                       5,560.9         703.3      706.4      1,692.5   59.6 6,23.2   8.1  708.7
TUNS                                                303.9          9.7        ".4         144.6    7.4   654.0   4.8   31.1
Forum Eldiwh                                       2.19.7         433.2      364.9        749.2   40.3 3t7.4   6.6  249.1



1014
UTTA P(  PME  PROJET
ProJwt Couints by Veer
(1611  MM   Nillio)
TSUI
UN. Costs
lili     (U
88  89    90       91      92    93    94  95    MM    Nlli")
== 2            22232=32=s3=22223                s: 2z  2s2=3
A.l 13O13W  m   PFOB  9n1           66.8114.5  466.1  767.3  9.o  75. 353.0 23.7 3702.2   234.8
0. IWNIJW  TKMAL POE  S1ATIGI          -  7.0   93.6  141.6  148.6  106.6    -    -   5SO.0    33.3
C. 03  PmE ST1n1                     4.7160.4  173.3  146.3   60.6        -    -    -   55.4    42.3
3. T1*ISSI SITERI                   13.6  3.1  2261.9  206.3  274.5  219.2 92.7 745  173*0         0.2
E. IEES                                -  0.5  I.5   22.0    3.0         -    -    -    45.0       3.5
Total RASELINE COSTS                  85.3 345.5  996.*6 1290.7 19426.0 1082.5 445.7 313.2 59975.6   459.7
Phsical CantinIonCios               9.7  .5  ' 78.0  117.6  133.5  100.8 36.8 24.1   5261  40#6
Price Continiencis                  3.3  46.4  219.3  397.  562.3  524.1 255.8 209.9 2P219.5    91.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                   93.8 419.4 1,263.8 1t606.3 2,121.8 19707.5 733.3 547.3 8#7M2   592.0
-= -     -    -    -222232     - -u   -------  --222 = Zm
Tames                                 - 36.1  124*7  139.7  147.1  116.3 51.5 33.6   654.0    44.5
Foreimn Extdange                    2.3 154.1  639.2  817.6  926.6  741.2 296.2 213.3 3M792.4   257.4
bwvar 16? 1937 WNW
m m
0.
bs,112t t4 lw  d:01 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~



- 85 -
ANNEX *3.4
IIDIA                                                      Page 1 of 2
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMIENT ARRANGEM4ENTS
(US A IMILLIONS)
......  .......   .......................................................... ......I.--------------------------------.....---------.---....---------.-..----.-...
PROCUREINT METHOD
PROJECT COMPONENTS                            ------------------             ----           -------..---.---------....----------'.. ----.'---
ICB *             LCB               OTHER                  N.A.                  TOTAL
.....- --  -- --  -    --------       --  -- --  -- --  --  -    ----------.  . ..................... ...... .
Contract   Bank          Contracts    Contract   Bank             Contracts    Contract   Bank
Value        Finance    Value            Value        Finance   Value            Vatue        Finance
A. SRINAGAR HYDRO POWER STATION:
Land, Resettlement,Preparation                                                                                   7.5             7.5
Civil Works
-Dam,Tw   tel,Sediment,gasin                 137.0   103.0                                                                    137.0        103.0
-Power Channel                                23.0     17.0                                                                    23.0          17.0
-Forebay,Power House,Switchyard               36.9     28.0                                                                    36.9         28.0
-Tail Race                                                               6.4                                                    6.4          0.0
Equipments
-Spillway & Gates                             15.4      9.3                                                                    15.4          9.3
-Penstocks                                     4.3      2.6                                                                     4.3          2.6
-Turbo-generators                            69.8      59.5                                                                    69.8         59.5
-Auxillaries                                                             3.7                                                    3.7          0.0
-Main Transformer                              4.0      2.4                                                                     4.0          2.4
-Cables                                                                  0.5                                                    0.5          0.0
-Switchyard                                    3.5      2.1                                                                     3.5          2.1
Subtotal                                   293.9   223.9               10.6                                                  312.0        223.9
B. HARDUAGANJ:
Boilers                                       23.3     16.0                                                                    23.3          16.0
Coal HandLing                                  8.5      6.8                                                                     8.5          6.8
Ash Handling                                   3.0      1.8                                                                      3.0          1.8
Fuel Oil Handling                              0.4      0.3                                                                     0.4          0.3
Electrical Works                               5.4      4.1                                                                     5.4          4.1
Fire Fighting System                                                     0.8                                                    0.8          0.0
Chimney                                                                  0.8                                                    0.8          0.0
Subtotal                                      40.6     29.0              1.6                                                   42.2         29.0
C. OBRA:
Coal Handling                                 30.3     21.5                                                                    30.3         21.5
Wagons                                        14.1      9.6                                                                    14.1          9.6
Misc. Civil Works                                                        0.9                                                    0.9          0.0
Subtotal                                      44.4     31.1              0.9                                                   45.3         31.1
D. TRANSMISSION SYSTEM:
Transmission Lines                            57.1     44.3              8.5                                                   65.6         44.3
Sub-Stations                                  21.1     15.7              4.2                                                   25.3         15.7
TeLecomuJnication                              3.1      1.9                                                                     3.1          1.9
Subtotal                                      81.3     61.9             12.7                                                   94.0         61.9
E. Meters                                         3.2       2.5                                                                     3.2          2.5
E. SERVICES:
Consultancy                                                                             1.6       1.0                            1.6         1.0
Training                                                                                1.1       0.6                           1.1          0.6
Engineering & Adninistration                                                                                    48.6           48.6
Subtotal                                       0.0      0.0              0.0            2.7       1.6           48.6           51.3           1.6
TOTAL                                           463.4   348.4              25.8             2.7      1.6            56.1          548.0      350.00
* Includes US S 0.5 million procurement urder L.I.B.
===---stwss--e=================-B-====-======-==-==============^===s:===============s=======2



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULHE
(DD/MM/YY)
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                   PRE-QUALIFICATION                              BIDDING
CONTRACT    COMPLETION
Invmitation    Opening   Evaluation       Irvitation    Opening   Evaluation   AWARD        DATE
A. SRINAGAR HYDRO POWER STATION:
Resettlement                                                                                                                               31/12/92
Civil Works
-DoamTunnelSediment Basin                    31/07/88    31/08/88    15/09/88           01/1088    31/12/88    15/03/89      30/03/89     31/12/93
-Power Charmel                               31/07/88    31/08/88    15/09/88           01/10/88    31/12/88    15/05/89      31/05/89     31/12/93
-Forebay,Power House,Switchyard,             31/07/88    31/08/88    15/09/88           01/10/88    31/12/88    15/03/89      31/03/89     31/12/92
Tafl Race
Equipments
-Spil(way & Gates                                                                       15/02/89    15/05/89    15/07/89      15/08/89     31/12/93                1
-Penstocks                                                                              15/02/89    15/05/89    15/07/89      15/08/89     31/12/93                o
-Turbo-generators                                                                       01/10/88    15/12/88    15/02/89      01/03/89     31/12/95
-Auxillaries                                                                            01/01/89    15/03/89    15/06/89      01/07/89     31/12/95
-Main Transformer                                                                       01/01/89    15/03/89    15/06/89      01/07/89     31/12/95
-Cables                                                                                 01/01/89    15/03/89    15/06/89      01/07/89     31/12/95
-Switchyard                                                                             01/01/89    15/03/89    15/06/89      01/07/89     31/12/95
S. MARDUAGANJ:
Boilers                                                                                 30/11/88    15/01/89    15/03/89      15/04/89     31/06/92
Coat Handling                                                                           31/01/89    15/04/89    15/06/89      15/07/89     31/06/92
Ash Handling                                                                            31/01/89    15/04/89    15/06/89      15/07/89     31/06/92
Fuel Oil Handling                                                                       31/01/89    1S/04/89    15/06/89      15/07/89     31/06/92
Electrical Works                                                                        31/01/89    15/04/89    15/06/89      15/07/89     31/06/92
Fire Fighting System                                                                    31/03/89    15/06/89    15/08/89      15/09/89     15/06/91
Chirney                                                                                 31/01/89    15/04/89    15/06/89      15/08/89     31/12/91
C. OBRA:
Coat Handling                                                                           15/04/88    30/06/88    30/09/88      30/10/88     30/09/91
Wagons                                                                                  31/12/88    31/03/89    30/06/89      30/03/89     31/12/91
Misc. Civil Works                                                                       15/07/88    15/09/88    15/11/88      15/12/88     31/12/90
D. TRANSMISSION SYSTEM:
Transmission Lines                                                                      15/01/89    15/03/89    15/05/89      15/06/89     31/08(94
Sub-Statiors                                                                            15/01/89    15/03/89    15/05/89      15/06/89     31/08/94
Telecommunications                                                                      15/03/89    15/05/89    15/07/89      15/09/89     15/06/92
Meters                                                                                  01/09/88    31/10/88    31/12/88      31/01/89     30/06/92             00 g
E. SERVICES:                                                                                                                                                           x
Consultancy                                                                             15/04/88    15/06/88    15/08/88      15/09/88      15/06/92
Training                                                                                                                                   31/12/91              
Engineering & Acdninistration                                                                                                              30/06/95 
Coqmuters                                                                               15/10t87    15/12/87    15/02/88      15/03/88      15/12/88             "'
=- ===-============== ========================= = ==============================~~=======------===------==



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
.. . . . ........   ..... .
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
LOAN DISBURSEMENT                              STANDARD DISBURSEMENT PROFILES (CUP. X )
. .................... ................................... ....... ............. ..... ......... ................... .............................
DISBURSENENT     CtMULATIVE       CUMULATIVE
FISCAL YEAR       MONTH      YEARS FRON DATE    DURING SEMESTER   DISBURSEMENT    DISBURSEMENT    BANK PROJ.        ASIA POWER       BANK PROJ.      ASIA POWER
& SEMESTER      & YEAR    OF BOARD APPROVAL    (US S MILLION)   (US S MILLION)        ( X )       HYDRO. POWER    (GENERATION)    TR. & DISTR.    (TR. & DISTR.)
.......... . .. ... ............... ................... ...... ......... .... ......    -------------- ....................   ------- I........   . .. ..........    .................   ......... ............   ............ ........ .
1988 S2         JUN 8              0
1989 S1         DEC 88                              25.0               25.0             7.14              0                0               0                0
S2         JUN 89             1                 1.5               26.5            7.57               3                2               1                1
1990 S1         DEC 89                               4.0               30.5             8.71              8                4               6                2
S2         JUN 90             2                 6.0               36.5            10.43             16               8               13                6
1991 S1         DEC 90                              14.7               51.2            14.63             26               13              22               12
S2         JUN 91             3                14.8               66.0            18.86             37               20              32               20
1992 Si         DEC 91                              34.3              100.3           28.66              48               28              43               29
S2         JUN 92             4                34.3              134.6           38.46              60              36               53              39
1993 S1         DEC 92                              45.0              179.6            51.31             71               45              63               48
S2         JUN 93             5                50.0              229.6           65.60              80              54               72               57
1994 Si         DEC 93                              37.2              266.8            76.23             87               62              80               65
S2         JUN 94             6                30.0              296.8           84.80              93               70              87               72
1995 S1         DEC 94                               15.0             311.8           89.09              97               77              92               78
S2         JUN 95             7                15.0              326.8           93.37             100              83               96              84
1996 Si         DEC 95                               13.2             340.0           97.14                               88              99               89
S2         JUN 96             8                10.0              350.0           100.00                             92              100              92
1997 S1         DEC 96                                                                                                    96                               95
S2         JUN 97             9                                                                                     98                               98
1998 S1         DEC 97                                                                                                   100                              100
S2         JUN 98            10
Note    Board Approval assumed to be June 1988
Disbursement of US S 25 Nit. in the first year takes into consideration the Special Account                                                                     A
00
'-a



UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
COMPARUSON OF DISBURSEMENT PROFILS
100   -    T    , _ _,     ,   , __,      ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,    -  X  ,  ,         X
90 
80 
70-
60 
40-
30~
20 
10 
0-
0      1       2       3      4       5      6       7       8      9
YEAR TO DATE FROM BOARD APPROVAL                               o
0   D      +   B(H)          o   A(G)          A   B(T&D)           x   A(T&D)



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEliENTS
-------------------------------------                        (In Rs Million)
Fiscal Year ending
March 31                        1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
-----------------               l-------------- Audited -------------------1  [Unaud.] ------------------------ Forecast ----------------------------I
Net GenerationCGWh)                9313   10389   11507   10668   1075   11175   13631   16068   17725   19160   22194   22550   22669   22856   24811
Imports(GWh)                       347      261    1141    2571    3719    3791    3591    2439    4037    6667    9215   10694   12413   14481   16776
Total Available Energy            9660   10650   12648   13239   14094   14966   17222   18507   21762   25827   31409   33244   35081   37337   41588
Losses (X)                         15.8    18.9    18.8    18.2   20.8    20.6    20.7    19.0    18.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0
SaLes of Electricity (GWh)         8132    8637   10272   10828   11159   11887   13655   14990   17845   21437   26069   27593   29118   30989   34518
Av.Rate (Ps./kWh)                 33.65   39.01   42.98   50.14   54.33   54.40   63.51   65.54   69.81   69.81   82.24   87.03   92.04   98.35  101.34
Increase in Av. Rate(%)           7.32   15.23   10.20   16.65    8.35    0.14   16.74    3.20    6.52    0.00   17.80    5.83    5.75    6.86    3.04
Revenues
Sate of Electricity              2752    3369    4415    5430    6063    6467    8672    9825   12457   14965   21439   24014   26799   30478   34980
Other Receipts                      0       0       0        0      85      84      88      100     166     199     228     247      272     319     372
Total Rev. fromn Sale of Power    2752    3369    4415    5430    6147    6551    8761    9925   12623   15164   21667   24261   27071   30797   35352
ELectricity Duty                     68      85      94      99       55     102     294     308      395     508     655     735     822      928    1095
Rev.Subsidies & Grants             1446    1594    1751    2048    2225    2549    2600    2576    1691    2037    2332    2495    2559    1942    2897
Other Income                         89     110     145      156     125     190     137      151     179     216     262     277      293     312     347             O
Total Operating Revenues           4355    5158    6405    M3    8553    9392   11792   12959   14889   17924   24917   27768   30745   33978   39692
=== ===== =====                                    =              = ==  == =
Expenses
Generation of Power                1293    1862    2248    2286    2325    2700    3265    4540    5163    5749    6686    6871    6936    6945    6953
Purchase of Power                    89      63     417     979    1390    1405    1573      989    1763    3250    4636    5470    6375    7620    8979
Repairs and Maintenance             355     301     410     396      442     624     772     834    1253    1738    2027    2294    2675    2964    4179
EmpLoyees Cost                      816     873    1016    1211    1204    1344    142.    1537    1660    1777    1883    1996    2116    2243    2378
Adanin. & Gent. Expenses             70      82      88      103      41     157     191     210      231     254     279     307      338     372     409
Depreciation                        381     541     587     619      664     710     773    1132    1363    1604    1863    2139    2460    2792    3536
Other Expenses                       12      14      16       '8    225      382     710     781      860     946    1040    1144    1259    1384    1523
Electricity Dtity                    68      85      94      99       55     102     294     308      395     508     655     735      822     928    1095
Total Operating Expenses          3084    3822    4876    5711    6344    7424    9001   10331   12688   15826   19071   20958   22982   25248   29052
Net Income before Interest         1271    1337    1530    2022    2208    1968    2791    2628    2202  2099    5846    6811    7763    8730   10640
Interest Expenses
Total Interest                     1481     744    2019    2345    2628    3013    3553    3766    4306    5414    6673    3218    9929   11508   12M
Less: Interest Capitalised            0       0       0       0        0       0    1380    1223    1338    1662    2145    2944    3890    4790    4329    
Int. Charged to Operations         1481     744    2019    2345    2628    3013    2173    2543    2969    3752    4528    5274    6040    6718    8444              00 n
Net Income                         -210     593    -489    -323    -420   -1045      617      85    -767   -1653    1318    1537    1723    2012    2196
R.O.R. as per GOI Act             -2.12    4.01   -3.12   -2.02   -2.51   -6.03    3.34    0.33   -2.43   -4.33    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00                  4
0



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
ACTUAL AND FORECAST SCURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS                    (In Rs Million)
......................... .....................................................................  ............... .
Fiscal Year ending
March 31                        1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
------------------              I--------------- Audited ----a-------------- IJnsud.I ---------------------- Forecast ---------------------------I
Sources
Internal Sources
,................
Net Income before Interest         1271    1337    1530    2022    2208    1968    2791    2628    2202    2099    5846    6811    7763    8730   10640
Depreciation                        381      541     587     619      664     710      m      1132    1363    1604    1863    2139    2460    2792    3536
,.... .   ....   ----.   ....    ....  .    ....  ....  .    ....  . ...   ----    ---      ----    ---      ---     .... ....
Total Internal Sources             1651    1877    2117    2641    2872    2678    3564    3760    3565    3703    7709    8950   10223   11522   14176
Adj. from prev. yrs.                  0        0       0        0       0       0        0    3604       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Prior years' R.E.Subsidy recd.        0        0       0        0       0       0        0   15223       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Cons.Contributions                  148      130     190      135     291     284     323      360     401     447      499     556      620     691     770
Staff Superannuation Fund            48       62     111     235      212     258     348      242     261      280     296     314      333     353     374
Grants                               11        3      31       11      36      84     367       68       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loan                    0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0     242     845    1160    1295    1009       359     242
GOUP Loan : ReguLar                2077    2260    2550    2987    3853    3125    1911        918    5681    5973    7777    9073    8818    6049    3477
GOUP Loan : I.D.C.                    0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0    1338    166;    2145    2944    3890    4790    4329
Other Loans                        1040    1275    1459    1420    1657    1951    2566    1921    2113    2325    2557    2813    3094    3404    3744
Total Borrowings                   3117    3535    4009    4407    5509    5076    4477    2839    8036    9143   11495   13180   12921    9811    7463
Def. Int. Liability                  90    -790      303      323     420    1046      762   -5779    2105    3315      827    1407    2166    2778    2133
Less:R.E.Subsidy not recd.         1446    1594    1751    2048    2225    2549    2600          0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Total Sources'                     3620    3223    5009    5704    7115    6876    7241   20318   15705   18551   22971   273 52   30153   29945   29245
Applications
Investments
,. ...   ..
Proposed Project                      0        0       0        0       0       0        0      99     419    1284    1806    2122    1708       738     547
Other Capital Investments          2693    3485    3723    4140    4203    4790    4393    5498    8968    9186   12192   15489   16967   15929   13861
Capitalised Interest                  0        0       0        0       0       0    1380    1223    1338    1662    2145    2944    3890    4790    4329
Total Investment Program           2693    3485    3723    4140    4203    4790    5773    6820   10725   12132   16143   20554   22564   21457   18738
Debt Service
Interest Ch. to Operations         1481      744    2019    2345    2628    3013    2173    2543    2969    3752    4528    5274    6040    6718    8444
Amortisation                        284      361     409     625      716    1036      929     755     861      981    1140    1263    1607    1797    1945
Totat Debt Service                 1765    1104    2427    2969    3344    46.9    3102    3299    3830    4733    5667    6537    7646    8515   10389                 0 0
Change in Inter-Unit Acets.        -358       78     244      -35    1070   -1034    -625       19     -50      -50     -50      -50       0       0        0             X
Net Ch. in Working Capital         -469   -1437   -1416   -1459   -1570   -1006   -1062   10222    1201    1736    1210         310      -58     -27      118             41
Def. Expenditure                     -10      -7      30       89      70      75       52     -41        0       0       0        0       0       0        0           O
Total Applications                 3620    3224    5008    5705    7116    6874    7240   20318   15705   18551   22971   27352   30153   29945   29245                I-4
=================================================_=====================================0



INDIA
UTTAR PRDESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
................. ...... ...
ACTUAL AND FORECAST  ALAMCE SHEETS                                     (In Rs Million)
As of March 31                 1986081 1981/82 1082/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1968/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 193/94 1994/95
-------------                  IA---------------- udited ------------------- CI  ud.I.-....................... Forecast ----------------------------
Assets
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets               18203   19748   20855   22342   23904   26030   34542   41679   50111   57918  67568   76480   89183  96800  139304
Less:Acc. Depreciation            2732    3272    3859    4478    5142    5852    6625    7757   9120   10724   12588   14727   17187   19978  23514
- -         ...     ....    -- -    ....    ...     ...     ....     ...     ....     . .    . .      ..     ..
Met Fixed Assets                 15471   16476   16996   17864   18762   20178   27917  33922   40991   47194   549t.6  61753   71996   78822  115790
Cap. expend. in progress          6499    8439   11056   13709   16349   19013   16179   15863   18155   22480   28974   40616   50477   62317  40551
Other Assets                        73      66      97      186     256     331     477     436     436    436      436     436      436     436    436
Current Assets
..............
Cash & Banlk Balances              481     427     400      465     654     401     237     370     455     571     690      753     821     897    1018
Total stocks                      1261    1426    1455    1498    1618    1760    2532    2345    3340    3801    4786    5612    5926    5593    5420
Sundry Debtors for elect.          809     970    1074    1525    2040    2301    2761    2447    2767    3116    4155    4320    4450    5062    5811
Other Receivables                  202     259      343     333     574     596     710     753    BOn    846       892     940      991    1045    1101
Total Current Assets              2752    3081    3272    3820    4887    5057   6240    5916    7362    8334   10523   11626   12188   12597   13350
Inter-Unit Accounts                583     661     905     870    1940      906     281     300     250     200     150     100     100      100     100
Total Assets                     25379   28723   32325   36448   42193   45485   51095   56437  67195   78645   95O64  114531  135198  154272  170227"
Equity & Liabilities
Equity
Cons.Contributions                 690     820    1010    1145    1436    1720    2043    2403    2804    3252    3750    4306    4926    5617   6387
Retained Earnings(Losses)        -5623   -5030   -5519   -5842   -6262   -7307  -6690   -3001   -3768   -5421   -4103   -2566   -842    1170    3366
GCants                             364     367     398      409     445     529     896     964     964     964     964     964      964    964      964
Less:R.E.Subsidy not recd.        2456    4050    5801    7849   10074   12623   15223        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0
Total Equity                     -7025   -7893   -9912  -12138  -14455  -17682  -18974      366       0   -1206    611    2704    5047    7750   10716
Lrng Term Debts
IBRD Loan                            0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0     242    1086    2246    3305    4026    4093    4046
GOUP Loans: Regular              19669   21929   24479   27466   31319  34445   36356   37274   42955   48928   56706   65778   74596  80645   84122
GOUP Loans: I.D.C.                   0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0    1338   3000    5145    8089   11978   16769   21098
Other Loans                       4239    5106    5940    6644    7265    8287   10097   11157   12290   13475   14769   16211   17796   19546   21453
Total Long Term Loans            23909   27035   30419   34111   38584   42731   46453   48431   56824   66489   78865   93383  108397  121053  130718
Staff Superannuation fund          209     271     382      618     830    1087    1435    1677    1939    2218    2.15    2829    3162    3515    3889
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                  1737    2324    2667    3131    3910    3630    3765    3520    3609    2662    3391    3907    4221    4310    4553            m *
Deposits                           454     520      573     687     995    1232    1453    1582    1738    1922   2171    2449    2755    3101    3494               X
Acc. Interest on GOUP Loan        2018    3131    4342    5771    7322    8541   10430        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0             4 
Curr. Mat. of L.T.Loans            361     409     625      716    1036     929     755     861     981    1140    1263    1607    1797    1945    2127           0 .
....    ...  ... ----   ....    ----    ----...--        ----    -  -    ....    ....    ....    ....  .   ... ..  - - 
Total Current Liabilities         4571    6384    8207   10305   13263   14332   16403    5963    6328    5723    6826    7962    8773    9357   10173
Def. Int. on G.O.U.P.Loan         3715    2925    3228    3551    3971    5016    5779        0    2105    5420    6247    7654    9820   12598   14731           0
Total Equity & Liabilities       25379   28723   32324   36447   42192   45485   51096   56437   67195   78645   95064  114532  135198  154273  170228
====,=========================================================================



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
MONITORING INDICATORS
FiscaL Year ending
March 31                                 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
I-------------- Audited --------------  Eunaud.I ----------------------- Forecast ----------------------------
gate of Return (%)- GOI Defn. (1)           4.01   -3.12   -2.02   -2.51   -6.03    3.34    0.33   -2.43   -4.33    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.0t,
Rate of Return (X) on Rev. Assets (2)       3.24    3.61    4.88    5.05    3.83    4.79    3.22    1.65    1.04    5.46    5.75    5.66    5.82    5.03
Rate of Return (X)- Historical (3)          8.59    9.61   12.11   12.73   10.61   10.72    8.28    5.72    4.73   11.30   11.72   11.44   11.7?    9.62
Contr. to Constr.(Annual) X (4)            -52.3  -46.8   -56.3   -63.8   -60.8   -39.9  -219.2        9.4    10.4      9.4    17.4    22.8    30.1    34.2
Contr. to Constr.(3-Yr.Av.) X  (5)         -55.2   -46.1   -57.9  -61.3   -59.2   -39.7  -192.3    10.1         9.7     9.3    18.1    23.9    30.8    31.9
Operating Ratio (6)                         0.74    0.76    0.74    0.74    0.79    0.76    0.79    0.85    0.88    0.76    0.75    0.74    0.74    0.72                  1
Debt as X of Debt + Equity (7)            141.23  148.34  155.24  159.91  170.59  169.05   99.25  10C 00  101.85   99.23   97.19   95.55   93.98   92.42                 r.
Debt as X of Debt + Eq.(Alt) (8)           26.67   28.97   30.24   30.11   33.08   36.75   22.87   22.05   22.30   21.41   20.31   19.24   18.35   18.03                  1
Debt Service Coverage (9)                   0.15    O.^;7   0.22    0.22    0.04    0.26    0.37    1.16    1.20    1.59    1.74    1.87    2.01    1.72
Current Ratio (10)                          0.48    0.40    0.37    0.37    0.35    0.38    0.99    1.16    1.46    1.54    1.46    1.39    1.35    1.31
Payabtes (# of Days) on Cap. Liab. (11)        0       0        0       0       0        0      91      61       30      30      30       30      30       30
other Payables (t  of Days) (12)               0       0        0       0       0        0     122      91       61      61      61       61      61       61
Accounts Receivable(# ofDays) (13)           105      89      103     123     130      116      91      81       76      71       66      61      61       61
t===e|=======_===-__w=_======---=====-=               ---==============_=== ==== ====:====== =====-_===s=5 -                            ===
Note: For definitions on the above indicators refer to Annex 4.1 pages 5 and 6.
c
.~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 93 -
Annex 4.1
Page 5 of 10
Financial Indicators - Definitions
(1) See definition in Annex 4.2
(2) As per Bank's guidelines:
Numerator: Income after depreciation, before interest.
Denominator: Average net fixed assets in operation, after deducting
accumulated depreciation and net consumers' contributions. A proforma
revaluation was made assuming that the revalued cost of assets at the
beginning of 1980/81 was twice Lhe historical cost and revaluing assets
yearly at the domestic inflation rate.
(3) Same as (2), without revaluation of assets.
(4) Numerator: Income before depreciation and interest, plus consumers'
deposits and contributions, less:
a) Rural electrification subsidy not received;
b) Increase in current assets, excluding cash;
c) Decrease in current liabilities, excluding current maturities; and
d) Debt service less increases in Deferred Interest Liability (DIL),
or
plus decreases in DIL, as the case may be.
Denominator: Investment in the year.
(5) Numerator: Same as (4).
Denominator: Three-year average of the investment in the previous
year, the current year and the following year.
(6) Numerator: Operating expenses.
Denominator: Operating revenues.
(7) Numerator: Long-term debt z 100.
Denominator: Long-term debt plus equity.
(8) Assumes that GOUP's loans are permanent funds.
Numerator: Long-term debt (excluding GOUP's loans) x 100.
Denominator: Long-term debt (inclusive of GOUP's loans) plus equity.
(9) Numerator: Income before depreciation and interest less rural
electrification subsidy not received.
Denominator: Debt service, less increases in Deferred Interest
Liability (DIL), or plus decreases in DIL as the case may be. Until
1990/91, IDC are included as per CEA's guidelines that provides that up
to that year IDC shall be paid out of SEB's own funds. Afterwads IDC
are excluded.



- 94 -
Annex 4.1
Page 6 of 10
(10) Numerator: Current assets.
Denominator: Current liabilities.
(11) Numerator: Accounts payable to contractors for capital investment
("Capital Liabilities").
Denominator: Yearly investment/365.
(12) Numerator: Other accounts payable.
Deonominator: (Generation of Power, plus Purchase of Power, plus
Repairs and Maintenance)/365.
(13) Numerator: Accounts receivable for electricity ("Sundry debtors for
electricity").
Denominator: Total revenue from sale of power/365



- 95 -                               ANNEX 4.1
Page 7 of 10
Assumptions Followed for Financial Projections
Price Escalation:  Local inflation:   1988/89 - 81
1989/90 - 71
1990/91 onwards - 61
Foreign Inflation: 41
Foreign Exchange: (for Investment Program and yearly disbursement of Bank
loan)
$1.00 =
1986/87  12.8 Rs.        1991/92  14.8 Rs.
1987/88  13.3            1992/93  15.1
1988/89  13.8            1993/94  15.4
1989/90  14.2            1994/95  15.7
1990/91  14.5            1995/96  16.0
Income Statements:
Revenues:
Average Rate: It is assumed that a tariff increase can only be
implemented in early 1990/91. That year, a tariff increase of 17.81 is needed to
generate the minimum 31 rate of return required by the Act. Afterwards,
minor adjustments are needed to maintain the return at that level. Although
there are reasons to justify an increase in UPSEB's earning capacity, it was
found that, because of the large backlog of Deferred Interest on COUP loans,
following the guidelines of the Act, any excess revenue generated by the
Board through a higher rate of return would have to be applied to reduce such
backlog. Accordingly, paradoxically a higher return would not result in
better cash generation for UPSEB because all the incremental funds would be
transferred to GOUP. Under these circumstances, it was considered that the
feasibility of higher tariffs were in doubt and that it was safer to take a
more conservative approach for our projections.
Other Receipts: Include meter rentals, public lighting and
maintenance charges. Projected to grow at the pace of sales of electricity.
Electricity Duty: It is a 1.9 paise per unit sold tax levied by GOUP
and collected by UPSEB on its behalf.
Revenue from Subsidies and Grants: To compensate for the losses
incurred in the provision of electricity to rural conaumers, from April 1,
1988 GOUP will pay to UPSEB rural electrification subsidies up to an amount
equal to the lowest of the following:
(a) actual rural electrification subsidies calculated on the basis of
the formula previously agreed between GOUP and UPSEB;



- 96 -                               ANNEX 4.1
Page 8 of 10
(b)  the short-fall between the actual surplus and the one required to
meet the 3Z statutory surplus under the Electricity (Supply) Act
of 1948; and
(c)  the interest on COUP loans charged to operations.
Other Income: Represent income from investments, penalty charges for
late payment of electricity, sale and scrap etc. For projection purposes,
the historical ratio to elecLricity sales was maintained.
Expenses:
Generation of Power: Represents the direct expenses in the operation
of generating plants plus cost of fuel. Also includes cost of supplies,
royalties and cost for use of water. Based on the plant-by-plant projections
of generation and cost of fuel the following weighted average cost of fuel
has been assumed:
For 1986/87      33.77 ps/kWh
1987/88     34.56 ps/kWh
1988/89     34.20 ps/kWh
1989/90     34.46 ps/kWh
1990/91     33.56 ps/kWh
1991/92     33.79 ps/kWh
1992/93     33.89 ps/kWh
1993/94     33.90 ps/kWh
1994/95     33.87 ps/kWh
In addition, an amount of 2 ps/kWh on the total hydro and thermal generation
is added to reflect the O&M expense. No price escalation was projected
because it is taken care of through the automatic fuel surcharge.
Purchase of Power: Represents the cost of power purchased from
different sources. Based on the forecast purchase of electricity, the
following weighted costs were assumed:
1988/89  43.7 ps/kWh              1991/92  51.2 ps/kWh
1989/90  48.7 ps/kWh              1992/93  51.4 ps/kWh
1990/91  50.3 ps/kWh              1993/94  52.6 ps/kWh
1994/95  53.5 ps/kWh
Repairs and Maintenance: Includes the cost of materials for
maintenaace of physical plant, currently about 2.0% of gross fixed assets in
operation. Projected to grow as follows to make up for previous neglect:
2.5% of gross fixed assets in operation in 1988/89, and 3.0% afterwards.
Employee Cost: Labor cost including fringe benefits. Since hiring
of personnel is restricted, the cost for 1986/87 was used for projections,
escalated at the rate of local inflation.



- 97 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 9 of 10
Administration and General Expenses: Include rent, property taxes,
insurance, comimunications etc. Projected to grow at 10% p.a.
Depreciation:  In view of the lack of a detailed breakdown, an
average rate of 3.3% was used with a 10% salvage value.
Other Expenses:  Include interest on consumers' deposits,  trite-off
of irtangible assets, etc. It is projected to grow at 10% p.a.
Interest: COUP - for loans received up to March 31, 1986, a weighted
rate of 6.9% p.a.; thereafter, 10.25% p.a. for 1986/87 and 1987/88;
thereafter at 11.5% p.a.
L.I.C.           :  13.0% p.a.
Market bonds    :   9.5% p.a.
REC              :   7.5% p.a.
Sources and Applications of Funds:
Rural Electrification Subsidy: In 1987/88, the
balance outstanding (Rs. 15,223 million) is offset against the Accrued
Interest on GOUP at that date (Rs. 10,430 million) plus a portion
(Rs. 5,779 million) of the outstanding Deferred Interest on GOUP.
Consumer Contributions: In view of the lack of data on projected
number of consumers, the historical growth of '1.47% was assumed to continue.
Staff Superannuation Fund: Represents contributions from employees
to their Provident and Pension Funds. Historically they have been equivalent
to 15.7% of labor costs and it was assumed that this relationship will
remain.
Proposed IBRD Loan: Disbursement for the proposed loan, according to
combined profile for the different components, converted at each year's
exchange rate.
COUP Loans: From April 1, 1986, COUP will finance, on the same terms
as the regular loans provided by COUP to UPSEB (i.e. perpetual at variable
interest rate, currently 11.5%) the total amounts of capitalized interest
resulting from the application of the accounting norms of the Government of
India. In addition to financing capitalized interest, GOUP will provide loans
to UPSEB in amounts up to 80% of the total cost of UPSEB's investment program
(including price escalation) less the net disbursements of loans received by
UPSEB from REC, LIC, IDBI, market borrowing and proceeds from the proposed
Bank loan.
Other Loans: Following current policies, were projected to increase
by 10X of the previous year net disbursement.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 10 of 10
Deferred Interest Liability: Relates to the portion of interest due
on GOUP's loans that is not paid when, following the provisions of the Act,
the surplus for the year is not large enough to cover such payments. When in
subsequent years the surplus generated is large enough, the backlog is paid
up to the extent possible.
Investments: A rolling five-year investment program was agreed and it
is attached to the Action Plan. In essence it reflects UPSEf's original
program escalated to reflect inflation and adjusted to the projected financial
capacity.
Interest During Construction: Is calculated using the methodology
provided for in the Commercial Accounting System.
Working Capital:
Cash and Bank Balances: Assumed to be the equivalent of about 15 days
of cash expenditures.
Stocks (Inventories): Includes Capital Stores (for construction) and
Fuel and Operating Stores. Capital Stores were projected as 2.0% (or about
one week) of yearly capital investment excluding I.D.C. Fuel and Other
Stores were assumed to be about 22.8% (or 83 days) of the cost of generation
plus repair and maintenance. These ratios reflect the current situation and
will be reviewed when the study on materials management is completed.
Sundry Debtors for Electricity (Accounts Receivable): It was assumed
that the actions to improve collections, in particular from GOUP, will result
in a gradual reduction as follows:
1988/89  80 days of sales         1991/92     65 days of sales
1989/90  75                       1992/93     60
1990/91  70                      Afterwards: 60
Accounts Payable:  Includes Liabilities for Capital Supplies,
projected to remain at the level of one month of yearly investment excluding
IDC, and Other Liabilities, assumed to be equivalent to two months of cost of
generation, power purchases and repair and maintenance. This reflects the
implementation of actions in the Financial Recovery Program.
Deposits: Includes security deposits received from customers and
others retentions. Consumer deposits are assumed to be 10% of the revenue
from sale of electricity. The rest are assumed to increase by 5% p.a.,
following their historicai trend.



- 99 -
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
GOI's Method for Computation of the Rate of Return on Fixed Assets
As per the Act, UPSEB is required to take all necessary actions to
ensure that total revenues in any financial year shall, after meeting (i) all
expenses properly chargeable to revenues, including operating, maintenance
and management expenses; (ii) taxes on income and profits; (iii)
depreciation; and (iv) interest payable on all debentures, bonds and loans;
produce such surplus of not less than 3Z or higher as notified by COUP, of
their respective net f,xed assets in service at the beginning of the
financial year. Critical terms listed above would be defined as follows:
(a) "total revenues" means revenues from the sale of electricity and
other services, and miscellaneous income. For UPSEB, this would in
addition include rural electrification subsidies, state electricity
duties received, and such other subventions received from COUP to
cover extraordinary costs which are borne by UPSEB and which should
not reasonably be borne by its customers;
(b) "expenses" means the cost of power generated/purchased, fuel,
operating, maintenance, management and administrative expenses, and
all taxes and duties accruing during the financial year, other than
taxes on income and profits;



- 100 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 2
(c) "taxes on income and profits" consist of income taxes and other
levies accrued according to the provisions of any applicable
legislation or regulation;
(d)  "depreciation" means a provision, based on gross fixed assets in
service at the beginning of the year, derived by using the straight
line method in conjunction with the schedule of useful life of
assets as notified according to provisions of Section 68 of
the Act, on April 3, 1985;
(e) "interest payable on all debentures, bonds and loans" means all
interest (whether paid, deferred or waived), excluding interest
during construction, accrued during the financial year, and all
other charges on debt; and
(f) "net fixed assets in service" means the original cost of fixed
assets reduced by the aggregate of the cumulative depreciation taken
on those assets. For UPSEB, this would be reduced by consumers'
contribution for service lines.



- 101 -
Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Electricity Demand and Supgly - Northern Region
1. Isaelle Capsict *. ar
31.3.65 is 11641 N 1/
2. Ci965it8 *4titieas tree
*ti_smu    i                         520    1647    196       1197    116l    1426        m4e      733     996    1110
3. Capweiey .Uitiee during
the pet fer. mm semes
N,de ()                                                       ; _   .  -  -      -      4       194      III      6O
SX 0  | ("")                                                    0      to;     "0 -  -  706  10 4  426   12t0       -
Totas                      *                                           M  -  -  706  106  44    t1  414  910      646
4. Ovevttl Istalled Catedity
at tse me ef poes
s,4dr  (N)                        51t      5562    5692   St"          25      n 7125     7291    6221  1IMI   11951
hefmin  (IS)                      4722    6165      Ms25   11235   1S755   13115   14675   15295   15415   15415
lbelea    (N)                      440     4O       475      v16      916      916      916     910      910      910
Setats                           12321   14206   14192   16669   19320   21S56   230          24424   24324   26274
Peak  _in    (N)                       9210   11975   13179   14455   15625   17415   19147   216G    23227   25574
haehie  bsrtag. (N)                   (1410)  (526)  (351W )  (336)  (3451)  (3167)  (4472)  (2853)  (4149)  (7206)
"VWe  Raquirmit_   (Gob)              46135   U1375   475368  74673   616    69216   90176  15C65   1114S  1U6953
bewg wuitabilit   (Ci)              43192   50470   57771   46546   79562   74534   64333  1U21   110174   116172
am By   sntag   (Cv)                  (4943) (10765)  (9747)  (5527)  (1564)  (2NU*)  (3645)  (5224)  (6177) (12781)
1l - I*us 49 *m         IMT,hemm   4062; a4d mAcats 446 N



- 102 -                                             Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 3
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESN POWER PROJECT
...........;................
ELECTRICITY OE4AND ANO SUPPLY - UTTAR PRADESM
.............................................
CAPACITY ALANCE STATEMENT
..........................
(IN M.W.)
1966   1967   1966   1969   1990   191   1992   ln    199    1995   1996   1997   196            9     2000
....   ....   ....    .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .  .... ..... .. ....... .. ....... .. .......
GINERAT ION
-  Nydro                             1032   1032   1032   1051   1051   1051   1103   1361   2166   2742   3003   3543   392s    4360
*  Therit                            1333   1394   14S7   1551   1878   1909   1909   1909   20s2   2339   2723   2723   2723    2723
Not Capaeity Av. fram UPSE                2365   2425   24.8   2602   2929   260   3012   3273   4221   5061   5726   6266   6648    706
Share from Centrat Sector                  638    939   1218   1567   1809   2199   2406   2657   2917   3107   33S   37m    406g    436
Cqacity Addition From Unchuher        0      0      0    35      35s    357    536    714    8        893     893     693  9  893    693   693
MET CAPACITY AVAILABLE            2262   3C03   3365   4063  4S526   5095   5691   6132   623   8S0    9"    10051  10933  11609   12322
TOTAL CEIWD                       4206   4626   son    ss5  6052   6636   7277   7919   6749   9594  10266  19M   11733  12S56   1315S
SURPLUS/OEFtCIT(-)               -191  -1623  *1707  -1182  -1526  -1S41  *153  -1617  *1926  -1561  -1185   -930   -620   -96?   -1131



- 103 -                                            annex 5.1
Page  3 of  3
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
ELECTRICITY DEMANO AND SUPPLY - UTTAR PRADESH
..........................................
ENERGY IALAINCE STATEMENT
(IN GWN)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   199?   1998   1999    2000
....   ......  .... .    ....  .... .    ....             .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  ..... ....... .. ....... .. ....... .. ......_
ENERGY AVAILABLE:
................
G.wrat ton:
Not Nydro                       458    5198   4891   4891   4968   5274   5274   5274   5445   764  10130  11653  12822  14?74   16553
Net Therwal                     6591   8433  11176  12834  14192  18919  1?276  17394  17411  1744?  184s2  20474  22485  23647   24145
Net UIPSE  Geration           11173  13631  16068  1772   19160  221,4  225S0  22669  22856  24811  28572  32127  35307  38421   40699
Purchase of Power                 3791   3591   2439   4037   6667   9215  10694  12413  14481  16n76  19106  20739  22299  23849   25225
Total Energy Avaitable           14966  17222  1S507  21762  2582?  31409  33244  35081  37337  41588  4767?  52866  57606  62270   85924
DEMAND:
Domestic                        2509   2854   3245   3690   4196   4785   5399   6108   6963   7938   8494   9088   9724  10405   11133
Cinrciat                         721    821    933   1061   1206   1370   1552   17ss   2001   2281   2441   2612   2794   2990    3199
P"lic Lighting                    87     95    105    116    126    138    151    166    182    201    215    230    246    263         282
PLOtic Water Works               326    349    371    397    423    452    482    515    551    590    631    675    723    773         828
Irrigation
a) PTI                        5303   s872   6466   7061   75s5    8s5   8810   9891  10900  12400  13268  14197  1S191  16254   17392
b) SYW                         938   1000   1067   1133   1183   1345   1354   1402   1680   1820   1947   2084   2230   2386    2553
C) LI Sch_wn                   662    719    766    821   1043   1181   1186   1194   1405   1550   1659   1775   1899   2032    2174
Ilndustriai
a) Less than 1 NW             4368   5011   5748   6s59    736    8663   9903  11303  12998  14948  15994  17114  18312  19594   20965
b) More than I NW             5320   S577   5805 ss94   6049   6582   6590   6604   7105   8800   9416  1OO05  10780  11535   12342
Railway Traction                 629    673    702    730    769    834    847    864    888   138s   1485   1589   1700   1819    1947
Miscellaneous                     69     75      84     91    101    110    121    133    146    161    172    1K4    197    211        226
Extra State Consuwer             437    459    480    503    526    552    577    605    635    667    714    764    817    874         936
TOTAL ENERGY REQUIRED            21369  23505  25m   28172  30745  34837  36972  40540  45154  52744  56436  60387  64614  69137   73976
TOTAL ENERGY AVAILASLE           14966  17222  18507  21762  25827  31409  33244  35081  37337  41Sa  47677  52866  S7606  62270   65924
Dem    rot met                    6403   6283   7265   6410   4918   3328   3728   5459   8117  11156   8759   7521   7007   6867    8os2
Shortage as a S of requirent  29.961 26.731 28.198 22.75s 16.001  9.s8a  10.081 13.461 17.861 21.151 15.52M  12.451 10.851  9.931  10.898



- 104 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Int:ernal Economic Rate of Return
1.      An described in Chapter 5, the proposed Project forms an integral
part of the expaIsion program for the Northern Region and, therefore,
cost-benefit analysis needs to be carried out on the program as a whole
rather than on the Project in isolation. A time-slice of the Northern
Region's investment program has, therefore, been analysed.  Capital cost,
incremental operation and maintenance, incremental fuel cost and benefit
streams for the Northern Region are shown in Table 1. Assumptions underlying
these figures are detailed below.
capital Costs
2       hAnticipated capital expenditure on generation at financial prices has
been converted to economic prices by (i) expressing the imported content at
cif pricess (ii) valuing unskilled local labor at 0.75 of the market wage
ratel and (iii) applying the estimated standard conversion factor, 0.8, to
local costs. Transmission and distribution capital expenditures have been
estimated at 50* of generation expenditure.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
3.      Incremental  nnual operating and mintenance costs have been
estimated as the following percentages of capital value: coal-fired gener-
ating plant 2.52; combined cyclo and gas turbine 22; hydroelectric 1.13X; and
transmission and distribution 1.02.
Fuel Costs
4.      Average fuel consumption of now coal-fired plant has been estimated
at 0.61 kg/kWh. The economic cost of coal at the pit head has been estimated
at Rs 164/ton. The economic cost of delivering coal to load center stations
has been estimated at Rs 0.54/ton mile. The economic cost of gas has been
oatimated at Rs 1,800/MCK and specific consumption at 0.225 CM/kWh.
Case 1. Benefits
5.      Case 1. benefits are based solely on incrmental revenue at existing
tariff levels. These allow for system losses which are assumed to remain
constant at 202 cf net generation in the Northern Region. The average tariff
in financial terms is Rs 0.60/kWh. After application of the standard conver-
sion factor (0.8), this represents Rs 0.48/kWh in economic terms.



- 1U, -
AMMU 5.2
Paga  2 of 3
CUse 2. Benefits
6.      In Case 2, the benefits of incremental consumption include elements
of consumers' surplus for both industrial and agricultural consumers.
Surplus has been imputed at half of the difference between the average tariff
for each category and the alternative costs of autogeneration for industrial
consumrs and diesel pumping for agricultural.
7.      The cost of industrial autogeneration has been estimated as followas:
Purchase price (incl. installation)        Rs 4,300/kW
Life of set                                15 years
Average utilization                        302
Discount rate                              122
Operation and maintemnace cost             Rs 215/kM per annum
Fuel and lubricant                         Rs 0.80/kWh
Average cost                               Rs 1.12/kWh
8.      The cost of electricity which would equate the cost of electrical
pumping with that of diesel is calculated as follows:
Electric        Diesel
motor/engine size                        5.0 HP           7.0 UP
Life Years                                15.0            10.0
Investment Cost                          Rs 4,000         Rs 10,250
Cost of diesel/hr                        -                Rs 4.82
Annual Costs
Annual Charges                           Rs 526           Rs 1,668
OKx                                      Rs 890           Rs 2,500
Electricity/diesel
(800 hrs/year)
Electricity costing
X /kWh                                   Rs 2,984 X       Rs 3,853
Total annual cost                        Rs 1,416 +       Rs 8,021
2,984 1
Marginal cost of electricity             X a (8,021 - 1,416)/2,984
at which diesel and electricity
are equivalent                             * Rs 2.21/kMh



- 106 -
ANIIM S. 2
Page 3 of 3
IND IA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Northorn Rogion Invostment Program
Economic Rate of Return
(Rs million)
Fin.  Capital               Fuel      Total    Incr.       Not      Not
Yocr     Exp.      Os"      Cost       Cost    Sales Bonefiti Bonet tZ
1986       84                            84                -84       -84
1987     1736                          1736              -1736    -1736
1988     S394                          5394              -5394    -5394
1989     6506        96       877      7479      1546    -6746    -6297
1996    10176       120      1754    12656       3080   -16572    -9686
1991    16563       226      1879    12668       3366   -11084   -16136
1992     8069       568      2696    11327      5222    -8820    -7326
1993     4932       756      4067      9689     8856    -5441    -2898
1994     2769       896      4788      8453    12S42    -2433       1171
1995     1561       992      5172      7665    16319       168      4858
1996      469       998      5246     6713    17931       1894      7047
1997                998      5255     6253    17986       2380      7549
1998                998      5256     6253    17986       2380      7549
1999                998      S25S      6253    17986      2386      7549
2000                998      5255      6253    17986      2386      7549
2001                998      52S5      6253    17986      2380      7549
2002                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2063                998      52S5      62S3    17986      2386      7549
2004                998      5255      253    17986      2386      7549
2605                99S      5256      6.S3    17986      2380      7549
2006                998      5255      6Z3M    17986      2380      7549
2067                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2068                998      525S      625..    17986     2386      7549
2669                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2010                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2011                998      5255      6253    17986      2396      7549
2012                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2013                998      5255      6253    17986      2386      7549
2014                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2015                998      5255      6253    17986      2386      7549
2616                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2017                998      5256      6253    17986      2380      7549
2018                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
2019                998      S255      6253    17986      2386      7549
2020                998      5255      6253    17986      2386      7549
2021                998      5255      6253    17986      2380      7549
Internal Economic Rate Of Return -            1I       11l



- 107 -
ANNEX 6.1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH POWER PROJECT
Related Documents in the Project File
1. SDecial Report on Srinagar Hydroelectric Project, Rehabilitation of
O~ra '"B" and Harduaganj "A" Thermal Power Station. and Associated
Transmission System for Financial Assistance, Geraration Planning
Unit, Planning Wing, UPSEB, January 1987.
2. Srinagar Hydroelectric Project, Project Report (5 volumes),
Multipurpose & Hydro-Electric Projects Organization. Irrigation
Department (U.P.), Dehradun, August 1986.
3. Report on Additional Coal Handling System at Obra Thermal Power
Station. Tata Consulting Engineers, Bangalore, December 1985.
4. Project Report for Installation of Two 160 T/hr Steam Generators to
Replace Four Existing John Thompson Make Steam Generators, December
1986.
5. Proposal for Transmission System Associated with Srinagar
Hydroelectric Project & Increased Generation of Obra & Harduaganj
Thermal Projects, System Planning Unit, Planning Wing, UPSEB,
December 1986.
6. UPSEB Statistics at Glance, Planning Wing, UPSEB, Lucknow, March
1986.
7. Draft Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-90) and Annual Plan 1985-86 for
Power, Sector Planning Wing, UPSEB, December 1984.
8. 800 kV Transmission System in Uttar Pradesh, Report S-95/1985-86/8,
Planning Wing, UPSEB, Lucknow, March 1986.
9. Evacuation of Himalayan Power in Uttar Pradesh, Report
S-101/1986-87/6. Planning Wing, UPSEB, Lucknow, March 1987.
10. Approach to Organizational Development, Report ODP/Cr/01, UPSEB,
Lucknow, October 1985.
11. Diagnostic Study: UPSEB, Report for Appraisal Mission, Gerald
Dunnion, Consultant, May 1987.



H / A1 A r , tA i                
K             H/MA    ,frhii                    (        :                                                                                    INDIA
PRADF.}I/ i I                                                 CHINA                                      UTTAR PRADESH POWER SYSTEM
t   (   MuANE*RII/        -t-. >                                                                 220 kV and 400 kV
EtIALI I ~~~~~~~~AUNDER
S   t WAs3   {' /          /   >                                             CONSTRUCTION  PROJeCT    EXIST/NG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EQIKT  XITI
CHANDtGARQ                  'V AI\, CHIBROt 41w-{/8;HALI         /           -400 kV Transmission Lines
CHANDIGAA~r,    CHI(R  9HWA~  "/AlSTUCIANERIJ                                                                                           EXSTN
P UN   J         BDHAIPUTEHR                                                                                                      --  220 kV Transmission Lines
i KNARA ~; '   \ 'U            SRINAGAR                                               'N.TP.C. Tronsmission Lines
A  Ri)hilet,                                                  * *                                                            400 kV Substations
I Soheronpg 4  f   >/o g \  )                                                             o                     0     220 kV Substations
J  (  1   |;   /  \    t  (KRANGANGA                                                                                    U      Thermal Power Plants
(KALAGARHI                                                                                             hra  owrPat
~~'Shu,5Ii   M.,sattu,nnunr                                                     -          m  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hydrao Power Plants
HhYi /OMI    Nnton,\   %                                                                                                               Under Rehobilitation
<.    HA RYANIA               N             jNhou.                                                                                                        m           Hydro Powr Plants
__u P anp u               | l\                      KHATIMA_                                                     A                           Gas Power Plant
R~~~~~~~~T OPO..;p-d                                   rdobod                 \   sSLL                                                          State Boundaries
\~~~~~~~~E I..SAlN   8          bd    0       /      \      ChGn                                                                        w      ntemnotional Bioundaries
I.P. STAT1.N   apn                                O B. Gn,
2r  Bbgh.rh                                                                                         '           .RP  r'  '            -    "                                     2-
RAJASTHAN                                                                                                           OG>d
4    Ja    N  KA : ) .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,*~O                                                   l   r 4   , , p      I.
TANM
PA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jPR
Sen    (                  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~-24,              MADHYA    PRADESH                                           SiA24 *
78'                                   eO, 2                                                                          8
MARCH 1988



