Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2957 IN
                   (Uttar Pradesh Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                        Dated July 27, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  STATE  OF UTTAR
PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Uttar Pradesh).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to  three hundred fifty
million dollars ($350,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on condition that Uttar
Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  Uttar  Pradesh,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. Uttar  Pradesh  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  cause  the Board to carry out
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and  shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. Uttar  Pradesh  shall  relend  to the Board the
proceeds of the  Loan  made  available  by  the  Borrower to Uttar
Pradesh under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, include interest at
a rate of not less than  10.25%  per annum on the principal amount
so relent and withdrawn by the  Board and outstanding from time to
time, and  repayment  over  a  period  of  twenty years, including
therein a period of grace of five years.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by  the  provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.04. Uttar Pradesh  shall  carry  out or cause to be
carried out the  obligations  set  forth  in  Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09  of  the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.05. (a) Uttar Pradesh  shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank  with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Uttar Pradesh  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under
this Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Uttar Pradesh  shall  implement  or cause to be
implemented the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Plan in accordance
with the principles and  objectives and institutional arrangements
agreed with the Bank.
     Section 2.07. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Board to complete
all surveys and collect necessary  data,  and make a formal appli-
cation to the  appropriate  authorities  by  December  31, 1988 to
obtain clearance required  under  the  Forests (Conservation) Act,
1980, of the Borrower for  the  purposes of installation of 400 kV
transmission lines for  the  evacuation  of  power  from the hydro
power station to be constructed under Part A of the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of the Board
     Section 3.01. Uttar  Pradesh  shall  cause  the Board to: (i)
Page  3
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative,  financial,  engineering  and public utility
practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and experienced
management assisted by competent  staff  in adequate numbers; (ii)
at all times operate and  maintain its plant, machinery, equipment
and other property, and  from  time  to  time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering,  financial  and  public utility practices;
and (iii) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory  to  the  Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts  as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.
     Section  3.02.  Without   limiting   the  generality  of  the
foregoing provisions of  this  Article,  Uttar Pradesh shall cause
the Board to ensure  that,  under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, the dams and related  structures constructed under Part A of
the Project, shall  be  periodically  inspected in accordance with
sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there are
any deficiencies in the  condition  of  such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of  maintenance  or  methods of operations of
the same, which may endanger their  safety. To this end, the Board
shall propose to the Bank  appropriate arrangements for the Bank's
review no later than  one  year  before the expected completion of
such structures.
     Section 3.03. (a)  In  order  to strengthen the institutional
capacity and  financial  viability  of  the  Board,  Uttar Pradesh
shall, and shall cause the Board  to, implement the Action Plan in
a timely manner.
     (b)  In order  to  enable  the  Bank  to  monitor  the imple-
mentation of the Action Plan,  Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Board
to furnish to the Bank:
          (i)  commencing September  30,  1988, quarterly progress
               reports indicating the  progress attained in imple-
               menting the measures  included  in the Action Plan;
               and
         (ii)  commencing  December  31,   1988,  annual  progress
               reports  on  the   financial  performance  for  the
               ensuing financial year specifying the actions to be
               taken to meet  the  financial  targets specified in
               the Action Plan,  and updated financial projections
               for the next five years.
     Section 3.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to  ensure  that  all undisputed arrears due to
the  Board  from  Uttar  Pradesh,  including  its  departments and
agencies as of  August  31,  1987,  are  cleared  by no later than
March 31, 1989.
     (b)  Uttar Pradesh shall prepare  and  furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1988, a  program  to  ensure that commencing April 1,
1989, all of its  agencies  pay  their electricity bills within 60
days of billing.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 4.01. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Board to:
     (a)  maintain records  and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations and
financial condition;
     (b)  have  its  records,  accounts  and  financial statements
(balance sheets, statements  of  income  and  expenses and related
statements) for each  financial  year  audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
Page  4
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (c)  commencing financial year  1989/90,  furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in  any  case not later than nine months
after the end  of  each  such  year,  (i)  certified copies of its
financial statements for such  year  as  so  audited, and (ii) the
report of such audit by  said  auditors  of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
     (d)  furnish to the  Bank  such  other information concerning
said records, accounts  and  financial  statements  as well as the
audit thereof, as  the  Bank  shall  from  time to time reasonably
request.
     Section 4.02.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions of
Section 4.01 of  this  Agreement,  Uttar  Pradesh  shall cause the
Board to furnish the audited accounts, together with the auditor's
report, to the Bank, in respect of the Board's accounts for finan-
cial years 1987/88 and 1988/89, within  12 months after the end of
each such financial year.
     Section 4.03. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Board to take
from time to time all such measures as may be necessary including,
if necessary, adjustment of tariffs  of  the Board to ensure that,
except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, commencing financial
year 1990/91, the  total  revenues  in  any  financial year shall,
after meeting: (i) all  expenses  properly chargeable to revenues,
including  operating  maintenance  and  management  expenses; (ii)
taxes on income and profits; (iii) depreciation; and (iv) interest
payable on all debentures,  bonds  and loans; produce such surplus
as is not less than 3%  of  the  net  fixed assets of the Board in
service at the beginning of such year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "total revenues" means  revenues  of the Board from
               the sale of electricity and other services, miscel-
               laneous  income,  rural  electrification  subsidies
               received  from  Uttar  Pradesh,  state  electricity
               duties  received,  and  such  other  subventions as
               shall be  made  in  respect  of extraordinary costs
               which are borne by  the  Board and which should not
               reasonably be borne by customers of the Board;
         (ii)  "expenses" means the cost  of power purchased, fuel
               operating, maintenance,  management and administra-
               tive expenses, and  all  taxes  and duties accruing
               during the  financial  year,  other  than  taxes on
               income and profits of the Board;
        (iii)  "taxes on income  and  profits"  consists of income
               taxes  and  other  levies   accrued  by  the  Board
               according to the  provisions  of any legislation or
               regulation applicable in this respect;
         (iv)  "depreciation" means a  provision derived in accor-
               dance with the  straight-line  method  based on the
               useful  life  of   assets   as  stipulated  in  the
               Borrower's notification issued under the provisions
               of Section 68 of the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948,
               of the Borrower, based  on  the  gross value of the
               Board's fixed assets in service at the beginning of
               each year;
          (v)  "interest  payable  on  all  debentures,  bonds and
               loans"  means  all   interest,  excluding  interest
               during construction,  accrued  by  the Board during
               the financial year and  all  other charges on debt;
               and
         (vi)  "net fixed assets  of  the  Board in service" means
               the original cost of  such fixed assets, as reduced
Page  5
               by the aggregate of  the cumulative depreciation in
               respect of  such  assets,  less  consumers' contri-
               bution  for  service  lines,  also  reduced  by the
               aggregate of the cumulative depreciation in respect
               of such portion of  the  service  lines as has been
               financed by consumer contributions.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Uttar Pradesh  thereunder  shall  terminate  on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Uttar Pradesh:
          Secretary to the Government
            of Uttar Pradesh
          Department of Power
          Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
          India
          Cable address:
               POWER
               Lucknow
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of  Uttar Pradesh or such other person
or persons as Uttar Pradesh  shall designate in writing, and Uttar
Pradesh shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  sufficient  evidence of the
Page  6
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  a  margin  of preference to domestic
contractors may be granted in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and para-
graph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $15,000,000 and $200,000 each or less, respectively,
may  be  procured  under   contracts   awarded  on  the  basis  of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  7
2.   Contracts for specialized  instruments  estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000  in  the  aggregate  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works and equip-
ment estimated to cost the  equivalent of $15,000,000 and $200,000
or more, respectively, the  procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to  the  Loan
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  Board  in  carrying out the Project,
Uttar Pradesh shall cause  the  Board  to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
