Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H597-LA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 1, 2010  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 1, 2010, entered into between 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirteen 
million 
three 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                             
(SDR 13,300,000
)
(“Financing”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the 
Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying 
out the Program and with the adequacy of the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
23 Singha Road 
Nongbone Village 
Saysettha District 
Vientiane, Lao PDR 
 
Facsimile: 856-21-412142 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Vientiane, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ 
Viengthong 
Siphandone 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ Patchamuthu Illangova 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The MPI abolished the requirement for an investment license for general 
investment activities outside the Negative List as part of the implementation of 
the Law on Investment Promotion. 
 
2. 
The Recipient approved PM Decree on Rules of Origin and the MOIC has 
submitted to the Minister of MOIC the implementing regulation under said 
Decree on May 17, 2010.  
 
3. The 
MOF: 
 
(a) 
remained current on settlement of arrears for the period commencing FY 
2004/05 and including FY 2007/08, and reconciled arrears for 
FY2008/09;  
 
(b) 
provided adequate budgetary allocations to government agencies for 
current electricity consumption for FY2009/10; and 
 
(c) 
together with EDL, clarified the financial arrangements for electricity 
provision to the irrigation sector in a letter sent by EDL to MOF on April 
30, 2010 and at a following workshop held in Vientiane on May 4, 2010. 
 
4. 
The Bank of Lao PDR approved the Action Plan for the Financial Sector Strategy 
on April 20, 2010. 
 
5. 
The Bank of Lao PDR submitted to the MOF on April 30, 2010 the Annual On-
Site Reports and the Quarterly Off-Site Examination Reports of the Banque pour 
le
 Commerce Extérieur Lao, the Lao Development Bank and the Agricultural 
Promotion Bank. 
 
6. 
The MOF completed centralization of the National Treasury on December 31, 
2009, and the Minister of Finance issued Instruction No. 734/MOF on April 21, 
2010 to the National Treasury to transfer spending unit accounts to the National 
Treasury.
 
7. 
The MOH submitted the Health Financing Strategy to the MOH Steering 
Committee for consideration after due consultation on said strategy with MLSW, 
Page  6
5
MOF, MPI, and other concerned line ministries and agencies, and development 
partners on March 22, 2010. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
13,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
13,300,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied (a) with the 
Program being carried out by the Recipient, and (b) with the appropriateness of 
the
 Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposit of Financing Amounts
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
(b) 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of Paragraph 1(a) of this Section D, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the request for withdrawal from the Financing Account, the 
Recipient shall maintain a deposit account in Dollars at the Bank of Lao PDR on 
terms and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall confirm to the Association:  
Page  7
6
(a) 
the name and number of the bank account mentioned in paragraph 1(a) 
above; 
 
(b) 
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account 
referred to above; 
 
(c) 
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated 
deposit account at the Bank of Lao PDR, and the equivalent amounts 
credited in local currency to the central treasury account to finance 
budgeted expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
the date and name, and/or number of the central treasury account to 
finance budgeted expenditures to which the amounts withdrawn from the 
Financing Account have been credited. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
 
F.   
Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b)  
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, the report of said audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is April 30, 2011. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Action Plan for the Financial Sector Strategy” means the action plan approved 
by the Governor of the BOL on April 20, 2010 of its financial sector strategy of 
November 13, 2009. 
 
2. 
“Agricultural Promotion Bank” means the bank established by the Recipient 
through PM Decision No. 92 on June 19, 1993 as a state-owned commercial bank 
focusing on providing rural finance,
 
or any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Annual On-Site Reports” means quality reports issued by the BOL on state-
owned commercial banks based on on-site analysis of processes by BOL. 
 
4. 
“Bank of Lao PDR” and the acronym “BOL” mean the Recipient’s central bank, 
or any successor thereto. 
 
5. 
“Banque pour le Commerce Extérieur Lao” means the bank established by the 
Recipient as a state-owned commercial bank through BOL Decision No. 129 on 
November 1, 1989 and which operates as a commercial bank 
since,
 or any 
successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“EDL” means the state-owned enterprise 
Electricité du Laos
,
a
state-owned 
enterprise, established and operating pursuant to the Charter of 
Electricité du 
Laos
,
as such Charter was approved by the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts 
and the Board of Directors of 
Electricité du Laos
 on
December 29, 1997. 
 
7. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Page  9
8
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases)
 and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
Page  10
9
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
8. 
“FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year extending from October 1 in any calendar 
year through September 30 of the following year. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
10. 
“Health Financing Strategy” means the Recipient’s strategy to finance public 
health services, submitted by the Cabinet of MOH to the MOH Steering 
Committee for consideration on March 22, 2010. 
 
11. 
“Lao Development Bank” means the state-owned commercial bank which was 
opened officially on April 9, 2003, and created by merging the following state 
owned commercial banks: Lao May Bank Ltd. and Lane Xang Bank pursuant to 
establishment permission No. 09/BOL, dated 19 June 2003 from the BOL and 
Resolution No. 2582/MOF, dated 10 December 2002 from MOF respectively,
 
or 
any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“Law on Investment Promotion” means the Recipient’s Law on Investment 
Promotion approved by the National Assembly on July 8, 2009 and promulgated 
through Decree of the President No. 075 of July 20, 2009. 
 
13. 
“Minister of Health” means the Recipient’s Minister of Health or any successor 
thereto. 
 
14. 
“Minister of MOIC” the Recipient’s Minister of Industry and Commerce or any 
successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“MLSW” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“MOH Steering Committee” means the MOH advisory committee to the Minister 
of Health which has an advisory, review, and approval role in respect of key 
strategic and policy decisions pertaining to the Recipient’s health sector. 
 
19. 
“MOIC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Industry and Commerce, or any 
successor thereto. 
Page  11
10 
 
20. 
“MPI” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning and Investment, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
21. 
“National Assembly” means the National Assembly of Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic. 
 
22. 
“National Treasury” means the Recipient’s National Treasury within MOF, or 
any successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“Negative List” means the list defined in Article 2 of the Law on Enterprise 
approved by the National Assembly on November 9, 2005 and promulgated 
through Decree of the President No. 29/PO of December 9, 2005; the list was 
approved by the Prime Minister Decree No. 68/PO of April 28, 2008, and 
mentions sensitive business activities (including national security, public order, 
cultural traditions and the environment) for which entrepreneurs are required to 
obtain investment licenses. 
 
24. 
“PM Decree on Rules of Origin” means the Prime Minister’s Decree No. 228 of  
April 22, 2010 that defines the rules of origin of products imported to and 
exported from Lao PDR. 
 
25. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 24, 2010, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
26. 
“Quarterly Off-Site Examination Reports” means quality reports issued by the 
BOL on state-owned commercial banks based on regular data provided by such 
banks to the BOL. 
 
27. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly.  Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
Page  13
12 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance is modified to read 
“Preparation Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
”
