Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13973
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SECOND GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2051-ZR)
FEBRUARY 15, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEASUREMENT
One metric ton = 2205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA            -      Credit Agreement
EIB           -      European Investment Bank
G6camines    -       G6nerale des Carrieres et des Mines (state-owned copper co.)
KfW           -      German Development Agency
PA            -      Project Agreement
PCR           -      Project Completion Report
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
SNCZ          -      Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(Railways company)
Sysmin        -      Mining Systems Unit, European Community
TA            -      Technical Assistance
tpa           -      tons per annum
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 15, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on Zaire - Second G4camines Technical
Assistance Proiect (Credit 2051-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zaire - Second Gecamines Technical Assistance
Project prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
Coming three years after the Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2682-ZR), this project was designed to
assist Gecamines in reducing costs, improving operating efficiency, accelerating the rehabilitation program
and preparing the next stage of rehabilitation through the preparation of a five year investment program
aimed at increasing productivity. But with the onset of a serious macroeconomic crisis and the civil strife
in 1990/91, the implementation of this project was virtually abandoned as the company's performance
deteriorated rapidly (e.g. production of copper dropped to 43 thousand tons in 1993 from 424 thousand
tons in 1989). By the time this credit was eventually closed in February 1994, only 11.5% of its amount
had been disbursed.
The PCR traces the dismal outcome of this project to substantially the same factors discussed in
the previous PCR for the Rehabilitation Project (Report No. 12106). While it is plausible, as stated in the
PCR, that: "Eventually, the Bank could not shield the company from its institutional environment, and
a Technical Assistance operation aimed at improving management practices supporting international
competitiveness, however well designed, has a limited chance to succeed if the enterprise involved is
severely constrained in its business decisions and is saddled with excessive fiscal, infrastructure,
procurement and social costs", it is also clear that Gecamines lacked an efficient and dynamic management.
Although this fact was recognized in the PCR for the Expansion Project (Report 5460), the Bank appears
to have pursued a belief that, through its involvement with Gecamines, it could protect the company against
predatory rent extraction and other disruptive interferences by the Government. This was unrealistic and
proved very costly both for the Bank and Gecamines.
The project outcome is rated as highly unsatisfactory and its sustainability is rated as unlikely.
Institutional development impact is rated as negligible.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SECOND GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2051-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO,
PREFACE  ..................................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .....................................   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                           .........  1
Project Identity ..........................................                                        1
Introduction ............................................    1
Project Setting  ..........................................                                        1
Project Objectives, Rationale, and Risks  ..........................    2
Project Design and Implementation  .............................    3
Compliance with covenants  ..................................    7
Bank Performance ........................................                                          8
Borrower Performance  .....................................    9
Sustainability and Lessons Learned  .............................   10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... ..... 12
Introduction ............................................   12
Comments on Project Review From  Bank's Perspective   ................   12
Project Setting  ..........................................    15
Project Implementation and Management ..........................   21
Performance and Overall Results ...............................   28
Survival Plan ...........................................   33
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..........................   35
Related Bank Loans and Credits  ...............................   35
Project Timetable  ........................................   36
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .....................  36
Use of Bank Resources .....................................   37
Gecamines Exploitation - Statement of Financial Accounts ...............  39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SECOND GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2051-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Gecamines Technical
Assistance Project, for which Credit 2051-ZR in the sum of $201 million was approved on June
27, 1989. The Industry and Energy Division of the South Central and Indian Ocean Department
prepared Parts I and III of this report based, inter alia, on the following sources: President's
Report and Recommendation to the Executive Directors; Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision and back-to-office reports; audit reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; Project Completion Reports for the Gecamines Expansion
Loan (Ln. 1090-ZR), the Gecamines Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1336-ZR), the Structural
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1831-ZR), and the Gecamines Rehabilitation Loan (Ln. 2682-ZR); and
discussions with staff involved in the project.
Given the extensive discussion of the situation at Gecamines, the state mining company,
and in Zaire in the recent PCR for the Rehabilitation Project (Report No. 12106, dated June 29,
1993), as well as the fact that only 11.5 percent of the Credit had been disbursed before
cancellation ($2.3 million), a brief Project Completion Report in the form of an evaluation
summary was prepared for this TA Credit. Part II of the report was prepared by Gecamines.
'Throughout this report, $ refers to United States dollars.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SECOND GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2051-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Design
1.    Copper and cobalt mining has been the cornerstone of Zaire's economy. Gecamines, the
national copper and cobalt mining company, has been a core element of the Bank's assistance to
Zaire because of its strategic importance for the country. In an effort to improve the company's
competitive position, Gecamines has received since the mid 1970s two Bank Loans and the
proceeds of two IDA Credits totaling $237 million. The Second Gecamines Technical Assistance
Project described in this report was the fourth of these operations. In keeping with Gecamines'
strategy at the time of project appraisal (namely, halt the decline in output, improve its cost-
competitiveness, and diversify into higher value-added products) the objectives of the second
Technical Assistance project were to (i) reduce costs and increase operating efficiency; and (ii)
accelerate the ongoing rehabilitation program, while preparing its next stage. In line with its
objectives, the project had six major components: (a) restructuring and improving Gecamines'
purchasing and materials management; (b) improving maintenance; (c) improving Gecamines'
personnel and training functions; (d) continuing assistance to the finance department; (e)
strengthening the information technology group; and (f) carrying out strategic studies. Total
project cost was estimated at $30 million with a foreign exchange component of $25 million.
Gecamines was to finance $10 million (Paras. 8 and 11).
Implementation Experience
2.    The Credit became effective in March 1990 in a period characterized by fast economic
decline and political turmoil. Given the rapid deterioration of Gecamines' situation during this
period, only the restructuring of purchasing and materials management component was actually
implemented and for a short time only. In June 1990, Gecamines started implementing the
recommendations of a report (prepared by the consulting firm McKinsey and Company, Inc.) on
the company's procurement and operating procedures, and during the following twelve months
achieved encouraging results. However, Gecamines' initial progress in improving procurement,
inventory, and materials management was reversed during 1991, with the resumption of high-cost
procurement practices, large-scale illicit exports of cobalt, and ineffective internal controls. The
implementation of the technical assistance for the personnel and training functions component had
a good start, but it was too short to be sustainable. Gecamines' training facilities were destroyed
during riots in 1991 and, as a result, the implementation of the training component was disrupted.
Only $40,000 of the $2.7 million allocated for training were disbursed (Paras. 12 and 13).
3.    Despite the early positive results in the area of procurement and materials management,
the project had a minimal impact on Gecamines' overall situation. In fact, the company's cash
operating expenses continued to increase, from $1,075 million in 1989 to $1,166 in 1990, as the
management was not able to reduce overhead and fixed costs, including the wage bill. During
the same period, copper output declined from 425,000 to 339,000 tons. As a result, from $191
million in pre-tax profits in 1989 (92 percent of which were extracted by the Government as
income tax) the company acquired losses of $125 million in 1990. Even though the wage bill



- iv -
began to shrink after 1990 (following staff cutbacks and the depreciation of the Zairian currency),
as output continued to decline, revenues fell even faster. As a result, total losses increased to
$248 million in 1993 (Para. 15).
4.     The context of the project was changed substantially when Zaire discontinued its
structural adjustment program in April 1990, one month after Credit effectiveness. At that time
the World Bank adopted a "core program" strategy taking into consideration the lack of
government commitment to reform. The goal was to maintain key institutional relationships,
limit the deterioration of key physical infrastructure, minimize to the extent possible the impact
of ill-advised economic policies in the social sectors, and preserve the country's long-term
development potential. The Second Gecamines TA project became an important component of
the core program. From that time, the focus of Bank supervision shifted from a close follow-up
of project implementation to the goal of saving the company. Specifically, the Bank tried to
reduce the diversion of funds out of Gecamines, maintain a dialogue on strategic issues (including
privatization and crisis management), and protect key productive assets. Between 1989 and 1991,
the Bank repeatedly urged Gecamines' management and the Government to take a series of
emergency measures to prevent a collapse (Paras. 22 and 23).
5.     During a co-financiers meeting in October 1991, the Bank delegation offered G6camines
to use the TA Credit for legal and other technical assistance to examine the implications of a
suspension of payments, reform the legal framework to allow the privatization of the company
in the context of a modern mining code, and accelerate the search for private partners. The
Bank's proposals did not elicit a positive response until December 1992. As the company's
financial situation became increasingly desperate, Gecamines, following a Bank supervision
mission, indicated interest in a crash program to restructure and privatize the company.
Gecamines solicited offers from consultants and received three valid proposals, which it evaluated
in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines. However, the Bank eventually could
not finance this contract due to general suspension of disbursements on July 15, 1993. In any
case, it is unlikely that such a plan would have been approved or implemented by the Government
given the political turmoil prevailing in Zaire. On November 15, 1993, Zaire was placed in non-
accrual. The undisbursed balance of the Credit was cancelled on December 2, 1993, and the
Credit was closed on February 8, 1994 (Paras. 16, 17 and 27).
Project Results
6.     The project was closed because it became clear that it could not achieve its objectives.
However, when discussing the overall results, caution is need since only 11.5 percent of the
Credit was disbursed. In the few months following project effectiveness in March 1990, the
company's implementation performance was encouraging.  In the area of procurement,
Gecamines discontinued its contracts with high-cost traders, negotiated price reductions with
strategic suppliers, and centralized re-ordering, thus reducing considerably the shortages of
strategic spare-parts and materials. In the area of materials management, the company was able
to reduce the number of items from 330,000 to 92,000 and changed the previous re-ordering
algorithm which generated $6 million of obsolete supplies monthly. The throughput time of
requisitions was cut from 9 months to 6 weeks. During this initial period corresponding cost
savings reached about $20 million, ten times the cost of the underlying technical assistance
provided under the Credit (Para. 25).
7.     These early results indicate that the project was on the right track and that it held early
promise. Unfortunately, the results were not sustainable. Despite a substantial bonus from the



associated cobalt sales, the unit cost of copper soared from $1.15 in 1989 to $1.64 in 1992 partly
due to G6camines' inability to cut its fixed costs. Mining operations were crippled by the
collapse, in September 1990, of the central section of Kamoto (G6camines' largest underground
mine), as well as continued flooding at Kov (Gecamines' largest open-pit mine). Following the
collapse of production, and despite high cobalt prices, sales fell 60 percent from $1,447 million
in 1989 to $583 million in 1992. In 1990-1992, the company officially accumulated losses of
$338 million. In 1993, Gecamines operated at 10 percent capacity, and as of end-1993, mining
production had virtually been suspended (Para. 18).
Sustainability and Lessons Learned
8.    The project reviewed in this PCR was part of an overall Bank strategy in Zaire and,
therefore, should not be seen in isolation. The overall Zaire program was based on the judgment
that a combination of adjustment operations and investments in key sectors could improve
governance and economic management in the country. Even though this strategy did not succeed,
it seemed a reasonable risk at that time (Para. 30).
9.     Sustainability was a key concern of the Bank in its relations with Gecamines throughout
the 1980s. Since the 1970s, unsustainable rent extraction (preempting funds required for essential
repairs, replacement, and capital investment), led to the physical deterioration of Gecamines
which both the Rehabilitation and the Second Technical Assistance Projects tried to reverse.
Until the late 1980s, the Bank's strategy was to improve Gecamines' competitive position through
investment and technical assistance, while attempting to protect the company from disruptive
government interference. In retrospect, this was not a sustainable strategy, particularly given the
weak governance in Zaire. Sustainability was also a central concern of the Bank when it adopted
the core program strategy in April 1990. Even though it was then unlikely that the project could
achieve its stated objectives, the Credit was nevertheless kept open (i) to provide a means for the
Bank to extent pressure directly on Gecamines; (ii) to provide the necessary financial support
once the company was ready to implement the restructuring and privatization strategy; and (iii)
as a low-cost instrument to protect key productive assets and carry on a constructive dialogue
with the company until Zairian authorities were convinced of the need to take drastic action to
restore Gecamines' viability and competitiveness. Although this approach was unsuccessful, it
was the most logical course of action in the context of the core program strategy (Paras. 28 and
29).
10.    Despite the unfavorable conditions under which the project was implemented and the fact
that the Credit was closed seventeen months ahead of schedule, with only $2.3 million disbursed,
there are, nevertheless, several important lessons to learn from this project.  First, audits,
covenants and supervision cannot make up for the absence of a firm Government commitment
and responsiveness to the objectives and requirements of a large mining operation. Second, a
Technical Assistance operation aimed at improving management practices supporting international
competitiveness, however well designed, has a limited chance to succeed if the enterprise
involved is severely constrained in its business decisions and is saddled with excessive fiscal,
infrastructure, procurement, and social costs. Finally, with respect to covenants, the Bank should
adopt in future operations a stricter audit policy, including (i) legal arrangements whereby
auditors copy directly to the Bank all relevant communications and reports without going through
the project entity; and (ii) suspension of disbursements for failure to submit an appropriate audit
report on time (Paras. 31 and 32).



- vi -
11.   In conclusion, over the last two decades the Bank, through four successive operations,
has attempted to help Gecamines transform from an inward-looking state-owned enterprise under
intense political pressure, into an internationally competitive company. While the equipment,
consultants, training, and studies financed by the Bank helped reduce operating inefficiencies, no
outsider could reasonably be expected to provide the key ingredients required to establish
international competitiveness namely, a committed and experienced management sanctioned on
its operating and financial performance, a motivated labor force, a conducive corporate culture,
and a favorable political, institutional, economic and social environment. It is now difficult to
envisage a future for Gecamines without the presence of a private sector partner/operator in
charge of key business decisions with no government interference (Para. 33).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SECOND GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2051-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:       Second Gecamines Technical Assistance Project
Credit No.:         2051-ZR
RVP Unit:           Africa Region, South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Country:            Zaire
Sector:             Technical Assistance
Introduction
1.    Copper and cobalt mining has been the cornerstone of Zaire's economy. Gecamines, the
national copper and cobalt mining company, historically generated over half of the nation's
foreign exchange and provided basic public services such as housing, medical care, schooling and
food in the Shaba region, where the copper is located. Because of its strategic importance for
the country, Gecamines has been a core element of the Bank's assistance to Zaire. Since the mid
1970s, Gecamines has received two Bank Loans and the proceeds of two IDA Credits totaling
$237 million. The first three operations, an Expansion Loan (1975), a Technical Assistance
Credit (1983) and a Rehabilitation Loan (1986) have been completed.
2.    This PCR reviews the fourth of these operations, the $20 million Second G&catnines
Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 2051-ZR), approved in June 1989. The undisbursed balance
of the Credit was cancelled on December 2, 1993, and the Credit was closed on February 8,
1994, seventeen months ahead of schedule, with only $2.3 million disbursed, representing 11.5
percent of the Credit.
Project Setting
3.    Since the mid 1970s Zaire experienced protracted economic deterioration due to ill-
conceived policies and a decline in the terms of trade (copper prices in particular). In the 1980s
Zaire undertook several short-lived stabilization and adjustment programs with the assistance of
the IMF and World Bank. However, these programs were affected by non-developmental
expenditures crowding out public expenditures on social and physical infrastructure, thus causing
the economic, social and political situation of Zaire to worsen dramatically. In 1987, Zaire
adopted a reform program supported by Bank Structural Adjustment lending, which was
discontinued in 1990, shortly after the project under review was approved. Chronic economic
mismanagement was further exacerbated by the constitutional crisis and political gridlock since
1990, and economic and social conditions have now reached unprecedented lows.
4.    In the late 1970s the decline in copper prices prompted international mining companies
to undertake large-scale technology investments to increase productivity and trim costs.
Meanwhile, Gecamines could barely maintain its productive capacity by undertaking rehabilitation
programs financed by international donors. These programs, however, were unable to provide
Gecamines with the competitive edge required to prosper in a global industry. During the 1980s,
the company's international competitiveness eroded further. The main reasons for this erosion



2
include: (i) Gdcamines' management and its shareholder (the Government) focused on short-term
rent extraction, preempting funds required for essential repairs, replacement, and capital
investment; (ii) key management positions were held by political appointees whose performance
was not measured against economic criteria, thus allowing costs to rise sharply. Also, top
management was not able to resist large-scale diversion of funds by Zairian authorities through
supply contracts at inflated prices and other irregular schemes; and (iii) in keeping with the
paternalistic attitudes inherited from colonial times, Gecamines continued to provide social
services and infrastructure well beyond its role as a mining company. The inability of the
Government to fund and provide basic public services reinforced this practice. To a lesser
extent, the continuing lack of access to the Benguela rail line since 1975, as well as the collapse
of the railways company (SNCZ) and other national infrastructure also affected the company's
international competitiveness.
5.    In an effort to improve Gecamines' competitive position, over the last two decades the
Bank, in cooperation with other international donors, has financed four Gecamines operations
with a total cost of $1.2 billion. The first of these operations, the Gecamines Expansion Loan
(Ln. 1090-ZR), approved in 1975, was thwarted by intense interference and rent extraction by
the Government as well as inadequate implementation arrangements and capabilities. It was also
disrupted by various external events such as the closing of the Benguela rail line and the Shaba
invasions. The Loan was closed in 1981, 30 months behind schedule. The PCR for this project
stressed that Gecamines lacked an independent, outward-looking management and the support of
a shareholder committed to maintaining the competitiveness of the company.
6.    A $7 million Gecamines Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1336-ZR), was approved in
1983 to help strengthen management in production, accounting and finance, as well as control
operating costs. The project improved financial management and accounting systems, but failed
to arrest the decline in productive efficiency or build durable capacity for management. The PCR
emphasized that public authorities lacked the technical and administrative capacity to oversee the
company, and noted the conflict between the objectives of rent extraction and corporate
efficiency. The PCR advocated an increased role for foreign expertise.
7.    In 1986, the Bank approved a $110 million Gecamines Rehabilitation Loan (Ln. 2682-
ZR). The project was co-financed with the African Development Bank, the European Investment
Bank, the Mining Systems Unit of the European Community, KfW, and Caisse Francaise de
Developpement. Total project cost was estimated at $822 million. The project did not achieve
its objectives. Between 1986 and 1991, copper output declined by over half, while unit copper
cost more than doubled, with losses of $159 million in 1991 alone. Beyond macroeconomic
problems, the collapse of public infrastructure, and the civil strife prevailing in Zaire, the PCR
traced the failure of the project to the weak governance and the rent-seeking culture entrenched
in many Zairian institutions. Project implementation and the performance of Gecamines were
seriously affected by confiscatory taxation, diversion of production, and diversion of funds
through purchasing contracts. The PCR pointed out that the future of Gecamines would lie in
privatization.
Project Objectives, Rationale, and Risks
8.    Objectives. The objectives of Gecamines at the time of appraisal were to halt the decline
in output, improve its cost-competitiveness, and diversify into higher value-added products. In
order to increase efficiency and finance the development of new deposits, the Bank had
recommended that the company strategy include the participation of foreign investors, but
Gecamines and the Government adamantly opposed considering this option. In keeping with
Gecamines' strategy, the objectives of the second Technical Assistance project were to help (i)
--- -- -- --- ~ ~ ~ ~



3
reduce costs and increase operating efficiency; and (ii) accelerate the rehabilitation program,
while preparing its next stage.
9.    Rationale. At appraisal, Gecamines still enjoyed relatively high profitability and a
healthy balance sheet, and could have financed the project on its own resources, but for the on-
going rent extraction schemes (in 1988, official transfers to the Government including
underpriced currency transfers, totalled about $400 million). However, apart from the concern
with the eroding international competitiveness of the company and the increased world copper
supply and competition, there were several strong reasons for the World Bank to finance this
project.  First, it was felt that without the Bank's assistance and insistence, political
considerations in Zaire would make it unlikely that Gecamines' management could execute the
project or follow-up on subsequent implementation. Second, the project would support the
Bank's continuing close involvement with the company, help protect its autonomy and financial
integrity, and contribute to overall fiscal discipline in Zaire in the context of the then on-going
adjustment program. Third, at the time the project was appraised and approved, the expectations
were that Zaire would continue the reform process in which Gecamines' role was central. The
year 1989 was seen as a good year in terms of both macroeconomic management (as measured
by fiscal deficit and inflation) and adjustment, and it was only in early 1990 that the scope of
fiscal mismanagement took a decided turn for the worse. In addition, the considerable investment
by the Bank and other donors in Gecamines' physical rehabilitation seemed to justify relatively
marginal expenditure to strengthen the company's management.
10.   Risks. Three major risks were identified at appraisal. First, there was the possibility
of a sharp decline in copper prices to levels at which the company would have difficulty
surviving. The project mainly aimed at reducing this risk by reducing production costs. Another
risk was the possibility of a breakdown in the various transportation systems on which the
company relied for moving intermediate products among its plants and mines, and for importing
supplies and exporting copper and cobalt. According to the Memorandum and Recommendations
of the President, "this risk [was] being reduced by the Association's assistance to the Zairian state
railroad company (SNCZ)." In any case, the company was to benefit from having skilled
technical experts, hired under this project, to assist it in addressing these problems. Third, there
was a concern that "chronic government interference in Gecamines' management and draining
of its financial resources [were] obstacles over which a small technical assistance project (or
perhaps any project in Zaire) would have little control." In this respect, the Bank believed that
close monitoring of the financial situation at Gecamines and an active country dialogue would
reduce this risk. It was felt that the on-going adjustment credit would provide the necessary
leverage. Although in hindsight, the manageability of these risks was over estimated, they were
well perceived and not ignored (i.e., there was a deliberate and well thought-through decision,
consistent with the Bank's evaluation and general posture at the time, to take calculated risks).
Project Design and Implementation
11.   Design.  In line with its objectives, the project had six major components:  (a)
restructuring and improving Gecamines' purchasing and materials management; (b) improving
maintenance; (c) improving Gecamines' personnel and training functions; (d) continuing
assistance to the finance department; (e) strengthening the information technology group; and (f)
carrying out strategic studies. The project was to be carried out over five years providing funds
for technical assistance by consulting firms as well as individual experts. The total cost of the
project was estimated at $30 million with a foreign exchange component of $25 million.
Gecamines was to finance $10 million, representing one third of project cost.



4
12.   Implementation. The Credit became effective in March 1990 almost exactly when Zaire
started the political transition which was intended to lead to more democratic government. This
period was characterized by fast economic decline. Given the rapid deterioration of Gecamines'
situation in a context of political turmoil, only the restructuring of procurement and materials
management component was actually implemented, and for a short period only.  The
implementation of the technical assistance for the personnel and training functions component had
a good start, but it was too short to be sustainable.
13.   In January 1990, the consultants (McKinsey and Company, Inc.) previously hired under
the Rehabilitation Project, completed a report recommending various changes in Gecamines'
procurement and operating procedures, with an estimated one-time gain of $120 million and $75
million on an annual basis. Key recommendations were for Gecamines to simplify the
classification of its stocks and decentralize their control; centralize procurement; standardize its
equipment fleet; and reorganize and improve skills in procurement operations. In June 1990,
Gecamines started implementing these recommendations with the assistance of individual
consultants hired under the TA Credit. This undertaking initially benefitted from the support of
many Gecamines' managers, and achieved encouraging results during the following twelve
months. Most disbursements under the Credit occurred in the last quarter of 1990. During
1991, Gecamines' initial progress in improving procurement, inventory, and materials
management was reversed with the resumption of high-cost procurement practices, large-scale
illicit exports of cobalt, and ineffective internal controls.
14.   Following up on work initiated under the Gecamines Rehabilitation Project, studies to
establish a new job evaluation arrangement and prepare an overall manpower planning system
(specifically a new job classification system and a general remuneration policy for the company)
were completed in 1992.  By that time, however, Gecamines' situation had worsened
considerably and the thrust of these studies was not any longer meaningful particularly in view
of the social strife. Implementation of the training component was also disrupted in 1991 when
G6camines' training facilities were destroyed during riots. Of the $2.7 million allocated for
training costs, only $40,000 were disbursed.
15.   Despite promising initial results in the area of procurement and materials management,
the project had a marginal impact on Gecamines' overall situation and in fact, Gecamines' cash
operating expenses continued to increase, from $1075 million in 1989 to $1166 in 1990, as the
management was unable to reduce overhead and fixed costs, including the wage bill (see graph
3). During the same period, copper output declined from 425,000 to 339,000 tons after the cave-
in of the Kamoto mine, inadequate drainage of the Kolwezi open-pit mines, and availability
problems with major production equipment (see graphs 1 and 2). Gecamines' difficulties were
further compounded by ethnic strife in Shaba and the insolvency of SNCZ, the public railways
company. As a result, pre-tax profits of $191 million in 1989 (92 percent of which were
extracted by the Government as income tax) gave way to losses of $125 million in 1990.
Although the wage bill began to shrink after 1990, as a result of staff cutbacks and the
depreciation of the Zairian currency, as output continued to decline, revenues fell even faster (see
graph 4). Consequently, total losses increased to $248 million in 1993 (see graph 5). Due to
the fall in output, Gecamines informed its buyers that it would not honor its export contracts due
to "force majeure."
16.   Increasingly concerned with the sharp deterioration of the situation, the co-financiers
urged Zairian authorities to reduce the tax burden on Gecamines so as to restore the company's
liquidity, and asked Gecamines to prepare an emergency recovery plan. Gecamines prepared
such a plan which was reviewed during a co-financiers meeting in October 1991. The plan



5
Graph I
Gecamines' CoDper Output
500
450
400
350
300
250
0200
1501
100
50~
0
1986      1987       1988       1989       1990       1991      1992       1993
Graph 2
Gecamines' Unit Covoer Costs and LME Sales Price (in current US dollars)
140
60
1401
20
0~
1986      1987       1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
*   Sales Price   =    Copper Cost
Note: LME = London Metal Exchan2e



6
Graph 3
Gecamines Exploitation - Revenue and Cash Operatinz Expenses ($ million)
1600
1400
1200
1 000 -
800
600
400
200
0
1988             1989            1990             1991              1992             1993
* Total Revenue                     Cash Operating Expenses
Graph 4
Gecamines Exploitation - Revenue and Overatine Cost ($ million)
1600
1400 a
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
1988             1989            1990             1991              1992             1993
u    Total Revenue  -0-  Operating Cost
Note: Operating Cost = Cash Operating Expenses + Depreciation + Provisions
GraDh 5
Gecamines Exploitation - Net Income (S million)
200
150               a
1 00                     \
50 T
0
1988          1989  N       1990          1991          1992          1993
-100                                       \
-150N
-200                                                                             \
-250                                                                                      a
Source: Table 5. Gecamines Exploitation - Statement of Financial Accounts



7
contained positive elements, but was not up to the magnitude of the crisis faced by the company.
At that time, the Bank delegation offered Gecamines to use the TA Credit for legal and other
technical assistance to examine the implications of a suspension of payments, reform the legal
framework to allow the privatization of the company in the context of a modern mining code, and
accelerate the search for private partners. The withdrawal of most donors from all activities in
Zaire because of the political instability and arrears, as well as the Bank's reduced role in the
country (affecting the Government's ability to maintain essential infrastructure - SNCZ in
particular) did not favor this dialogue. Also, the weak and short-lived Governments (particularly
after April 1990) meant that there was no strong government pressure to deal effectively with the
company's problems.
17.   The Bank's proposals did not elicit a positive response until December 1992, when
Gecamines' management, as the company's financial situation became increasingly desperate,
indicated interest in the crash restructuring/privatization program proposed by a Bank supervision
mission. The company's management prepared terms of reference and organized a bid for
consultants to prepare the restructuring and privatization of the company. Gecamines received
three valid proposals and evaluated them in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines.
However, Gecamines and Zaire had been in arrears since May 15, 1993, which led to a general
suspension of disbursements on July 15, 1993. As a result, the Bank eventually could not finance
this contract. On November 15, 1993, Zaire was placed in non-accrual. The undisbursed
balance of the Credit was cancelled on December 2, 1993, and the Credit was closed on February
8, 1994.
18.   Overall results. The project was closed because it became clear that the stated objectives
could not be achieved. With only 11.5 percent of the Credit disbursed, caution is needed when
discussing the overall results. The project's early results (discussed in paragraph 25) indicate that
the project was on the right track and that it held early promise. During the first few months of
implementation, cost savings reached about $20 million. Unfortunately, these early results were
not sustainable. Despite a substantial bonus from the associated cobalt sales, the unit cost of
copper soared from $1.15 in 1989 to $1.64 in 1992 (with an average sales price of $1.03/lb.),
partly due to Gecamines' inability to cut its fixed costs. Mining operations were crippled by the
collapse of the central section of Kamoto (Gecamines' largest underground mine) in September
1990, and continued flooding at Kov (Gecamines' largest open-pit mine). In 1993, the company
operated at 10 percent capacity. Following the collapse of production, sales fell 60 percent from
$1,447 million in 1989 to $583 million in 1992, despite buoyant cobalt prices. Officially, the
company accumulated losses of $338 million in 1990-1992. As of end-1993, Gecamines had
virtually suspended mining production (see graphs 1 and 2).
Compliance with covenants
19.   Compliance with the covenants of the Credit Agreement (CA) and the Project Agreement
(PA) was deemed unsatisfactory by supervision missions, especially after 1990 when it
deteriorated sharply. The covenants breached are related to obligations in respect to audits,
marketing arrangements, commercial and industrial practices, and the setting up of a strategic
planning unit, as outlined below.
(a) Audit requirements. Gecamines has submitted annual financial statements audited by
international audit firms. However, the auditors (Coopers & Lybrand) issued a qualified
opinion in FY 1991 and a disclaimer in FY 1992, which led the Bank to suspend the
Special Account in April 1993. At the request of the Bank, Gecamines acted to improve



8
formal compliance with covenants related to audits. For example, while the audit reports
for 1991 did not cover the Special Account and did not include a memorandum on
internal control (PA 4.01 and CA 4.01), this was corrected for 1992, after the Bank had
suspended the Special Account.
(b) Arm's length marketing.  Various unofficial sources have pointed to systematic
diversions of Gecamines' cobalt production since 1991, which violates the Government's
commitment to ensure that the products of Gecamines are commercialized only through
arm's length transactions and normal marketing channels (CA 4.03).
(c) Sound commercial and administrative practices. Although some high-cost contracts
have been discontinued, funds reportedly continue to be diverted out of Gecamines
through procurement at inflated prices, a situation that does not conform with sound
commercial and administrative practices (PA 3.01).
(d) Sound industrial and engineering practices. A difficult cash position, due mainly to
excessive cash-flow demands, made it impossible for Gecamines to keep up adequate
stocks of spare-parts, subsets, and diesel fuel. This in turn prevented it from operating
and maintaining its mines and installations in accordance with normal industrial and
engineering practices (PA 3.02). This explains, among other things, the collapse of the
Kamoto mine in 1990, as well as the backlog in overburden removal and the ineffective
pumping operations at the Kolwezi open-pit mines.
(e) Strategic Planning Unit. Gecamines failed to set up a strategic planning unit (PA 3.07).
Bank Perfornance
20.    Project design. The areas targeted by the project were of high priority and called for
drastic improvements to preserve the competitiveness of G&camines. This project was also
necessary to facilitate the implementation of the Gecamines Rehabilitation Project, which was
facing numerous setbacks. When the project was appraised in 1989, the Bank realized that public
ownership and control of Gecamines was not an optimal policy given Zaire's weak governance.
In this respect, as the PCR for the Gecamines Rehabilitation Project pointed out, while the
consultants, training and studies financed by the Bank helped reduce operating inefficiencies, no
outsider could reasonably be expected to provide the key ingredients required to establish
international competitiveness namely, a committed and experienced management sanctioned on
its operating and financial performance, a motivated labor force, and a conducive corporate
culture. In retrospect, a technical assistance project, however well designed, had limited chances
to achieve its stated objective of preserving the international competitiveness of a Zairian public
enterprise subject to intense government interference and rent extraction. A key prerequisite for
maintaining the competitiveness of Gecamines was the presence of a private sector
partner/operator in charge of key business decisions without government interference.
21.    Unfortunately, Zairian authorities adamantly opposed even discussing privatization issues.
In early 1990, Gecamines was a key item in the adjustment dialogue between the Bank and Zaire.
However, the Government's (more precisely, the President's) explicit refusal to privatize the
company, or at least its management, was one of the key factors which determined the change
in Bank strategy in mid-1990 and led to discontinuation of adjustment lending. Under these
circumstances, the Bank appraisal probably identified the best feasible project design. The Credit
was also a useful instrument through which the Bank could attempt a constructive dialogue on



9
privatization and other strategic issues. In any case, whatever the wisdom (in retrospect) of the
Bank's constructive support to Zaire, it is hard to conceive now how it could have been
meaningful without a close involvement in Gecamines, given its central role in the economy.
22.    Core program strategy. The context of the project was substantially altered when Zaire
discontinued its structural adjustment program in April 1990, one month after Credit
effectiveness. At that time, the World Bank adopted a "core program" strategy taking into
account the lack of government commitment to reform. This strategy aimed to maintain key
institutional relationships, limit the deterioration of key physical infrastructure, minimize to the
extent possible the impact of ill-advised economic policies in the social sectors, and preserve the
country's long-term development potential. The alternative "zero program" strategy (cutting
down completely on operations in Zaire) was also considered but rejected, opting instead for
gradual and escalating response to keep pressure for better economic management, and preserve
key investments and institutions.
23.    The Gecamines TA project became an important component of the core program. From
that time, the focus of Bank supervision shifted from a close follow-up of project implementation
to the goal of saving the company. Specifically, the Bank aimed to reduce the diversion of funds
out of Gecamines, maintain a dialogue on strategic issues (including privatization and crisis
management), and protect key productive assets whose deterioration would be very costly to
reverse, so as to preserve the possibility of a quick transition to a full-fledged program when
Zaire returned to governance and macro-economic stability. Between 1989 and 1991, the Bank
urged in numerous occasions G6camines' management and the Government to take a series of
emergency measures to avert a collapse. Since 1991, the Bank repeatedly offered Gecamines and
the successive Governments of Zaire to use the project to prepare the complete restructuring and
privatization of the company.
24.    Despite the unfortunate outcome, and taking into consideration the difficulties to supervise
the project (given the security situation and the lack of valid interlocutor at the government level),
as well as difficulties due to the absence of a macro-economic dialogue, the Bank had a
reasonable record in project design and supervision. In particular, during all three supervision
missions in March 1990, November 1990, and December 1992 (supervision missions were
suspended for two years due to security reasons and subsequent travel restrictions on UN and
World Bank staff), the Bank appropriately focussed on key strategic and governance issues, and
during the last mission reoriented the project towards the complete restructuring and privatization
of Gecamines. Unfortunately, the Zairian authorities failed to seize this opportunity.
Borrower Performance
25.    Gecamines' implementation performance was encouraging in the few months following
project effectiveness in March 1990. In the area of procurement, Gecamines discontinued its
contracts with high-cost traders, negotiated price reductions with strategic suppliers, and
centralized re-ordering, which reduced considerably the shortages of strategic spare-parts and
materials. In the area of materials management, Gecamines was able to reduce the number of
items from 330,000 to 92,000 and changed the previous re-ordering algorithm which generated
$6 million of obsolete supplies monthly. The throughput time of requisitions was cut from 9
months to 6 weeks. Corresponding cost savings achieved during this initial period are estimated
at about $20 million, ten times the cost of the underlying technical assistance provided under the
Credit.



10
26.    These improvements, however, were short-lived. Since 1991 considerable resources have
reportedly been extracted from Gecamines through high-cost procurement, consolidation of local
debts at unsuitable exchange rates, and large-scale diversion of cobalt production. Gecamines'
shareholder and management consistently focussed on short-term cash generation and failed to
grasp the severity of the situation. In 1991, Gecamines was unable to prepare and present a
coherent emergency recovery program requested by the donors to prevent the impending collapse.
In 1992, due to its disastrous financial situation the company stopped paying taxes to the state.
In that year, the Zairian Treasury insisted unsuccessfully that Gecamines pay the Government an
outrageous $3 billion in fiscal liabilities.
27.    Following the Bank supervision mission in December 1992, Gecamines accepted the idea
of a crash program to restructure and privatize the company. Gecamines solicited offers from
consultants and received three valid proposals, which it evaluated in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelines. However, the Bank eventually could not finance this contract due to a
general suspension of disbursements on July 15, 1993. In any case, it is unlikely that such a plan
would have been approved or implemented by the Government given the political turmoil
prevailing in Zaire.
Sustainability and Lessons Learned
28.    Throughout the 1980s, sustainability was a central concern of the Bank in its relations
with Gecamines. Unsustainable rent extraction, occurring in Gecamines since the 1970s, led to
the physical deterioration which both the Rehabilitation and the Second Technical Assistance
Projects aimed to reverse. Until the late 1980s, the Bank's strategy was to prop up G6camines'
competitive position through investment and technical assistance, while attempting to shield the
company against disruptive interference by Zairian authorities. As pointed out in the PCR for
the Gecamines Rehabilitation Project, this in retrospect was not a sustainable strategy, particularly
so given the weak governance in Zaire.  In this respect, the PCR  for the Gecamines
Rehabilitation l oan noted that:
"Beyond Zaire's adverse institutional environment, studies carried out by the
World Bank have shown that the confusion of identity between the shareholder
and fiscal authorities results in a structural conflict between the objective of
short-term cash generation, preferred by fiscal authorities, and the corporate
objective of long-term growth and profitability. In order to step up short-term
cash generation, state-owned companies defer investment in state-of-the-art
technology, and engage in unsound operating practices which undermine their
competitiveness and viability.  Another problem  with state-owned mining
companies is uneven management and technical competence. Top management
and Board directors are appointed based on political merit and are assessed on
their ability to achieve fiscal targets and social objectives, such as employment
generation, rather than strict corporate performance."
29.    Sustainability was also a central concern of the Bank when it adopted the core program
strategy in April 1990. It was then unlikely that the project could achieve its stated objectives,
and a question that might arise here is whether the Bank should have closed it sooner given the
Government's refusal to proceed with the proposed restructuring and privatization strategy. The
answer to this question is no. After all donors withdrew from Gecamines, the Bank was the only
organization in a position to affect the company and help it in its privatization efforts. It was
believed that the withdrawal of all the other donors would have put pressure on both Gecamines'



11
management and Zairian authorities to comply with the restructuring and privatization strategy
proposed by the Bank. Therefore, the Credit was kept open to provide a means for the Bank to
extend pressure directly on Gecamines, but also to provide the necessary financial support once
the company was ready to move on with the restructuring and privatization strategy. In addition,
the Bank also maintained the Credit as a low-cost instrument to protect key productive assets,
carry on a constructive dialogue with the company until Zairian authorities were convinced of the
need to take drastic action to restore Gecamines' viability and competitiveness, and maximize the
benefits that Zaire could derive from its exceptional mining potential. Although this approach
did not succeed, it was the most logical course of action in the context of the core program
strategy.
30.    The project reviewed in this PCR was part of an overall Bank strategy in Zaire and
should not be seen in isolation. The overall Zaire program was based on the judgment that
governance and economic management in the country could be improved with a combination of
adjustment operations and investments in key sectors. Although this strategy did not succeed,
it seemed a reasonable risk at that time.
31.    There are, however, several important lessons to learn from this project. The experience
of this project also confirms the conclusion drawn in the PCR for the earlier Gecamines
operations that audits, covenants and supervision cannot make up for the absence of a firm
Government commitment and responsiveness to the objectives and requirements of a large mining
operation. Eventually, the Bank could not shield the company from its institutional environment.
A Technical Assistance operation aimed at improving management practices supporting
international competitiveness, however well designed, has a limited chance to succeed if the
enterprise involved is severely constrained in its business decisions and is saddled with excessive
fiscal, infrastructure, procurement, and social costs.
32.    With respect to covenants, the Bank hesitated in sanctioning violations given the negative
impact of a suspension on the Zairian economy and on the country dialogue. After 1989, audit
reports failed to single out notorious cash diversion schemes. In future operations, the Bank
should adopt a stricter audit policy including: legal arrangements whereby auditors copy directly
to the Bank all relevant communications and reports without going through the project entity; and
suspension of disbursements for failure to submit an appropriate audit report on time.
33.   In sum, the Bank has attempted to help transform Gecamines, an inward-looking state-
owned entity under intense political pressure, into an internationally competitive company through
four successive operations. While the equipment, consultants, training, and studies financed by
the Bank helped reduce operating inefficiencies, no outsider could reasonably be expected to
provide the key ingredients required to establish international competitiveness: a committed and
experienced management.sanctioned on its operating and financial performance, a motivated labor
force, a conducive corporate culture, and a favorable political, institutional, economic and social
environment. It could be argued, however, that although the attempt to save Gecamines failed,
the support provided by various Bank projects did postpone the collapse of the company and
resulted in short-term economic benefits for the country. In any event, it is now difficult to
envisage a future for Gecamines without the presence of a private sector partner/operator in
charge of key business decisions with no government interference.



12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. INTRODUCTION
This document is a review from the Borrower's perspective of the Second Gecamines
Technical Assistance Project, negotiated between the World Bank and Gecamines Exploitation.
The project was funded under Credit 2051-ZR. The document sets out the Borrower's opinions
and comments on:
*      Part I of the PCR, which is a review of the project from the Bank's perspective;
*      project setting (objectives, rationale, start-up, etc.);
*      project implementation and management (stages reached, costs, etc.);
*      project performance (compliance with covenants, overall results, etc.); and
*      survival measures.
No presentation on Gecamines Exploitation is made in this document (corporate purposes,
history, importance in the macro-economic arena, development plan, etc.) because there have
been no changes regarding these areas since the PCR for the Gecamines Rehabilitation Loan (Ln.
2682-ZR) was issued on June 29, 1993 (Report No. 12106).
2. COMMENTS ON PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
The review of the project from the Bank's standpoint gives no cause for objections,
except in the following specific instances. Should the Bank accept the comments set forth below,
some amendments to the text of Part I of the PCR may be necessary:
2.1. Page 4, para. 15
1.     The Bank indicates that cash operating costs (including the wage bill) continued to
increase over the 1989-1990 period. Since we are able to supplement the data in the Bank's
possession (Table 5. Gecamines Exploitation - Statement of Financial Accounts) with the full
range of figures for 1992, and in addition provide estimated figures for 1993, we wish to note
that:2
0      The table indeed shows that while the wage bill increased from 1989 to 1990, it began
to shrink after 1990, as a result of staff cutbacks and depreciation of the Zairian
currency.
2Bank's note: The supplementary data provided by Gecamines regarding the company's Financial Accounts were incorporated
into Table 5, which was modified after this information was made available to the Bank. The updated version is presented on page
39.



13
*     The downward trend in expenses has been mainly a result of the prevailing
circumstances, particularly the worrying revenue situation since 1992.
*     Resources have been allocated rationally, in accordance with the main lines laid down in
the 1994 budget. Funds have been channeled toward the most profitable activities, in
particular production of cobalt and the higher-priced types of copper, while production
activity in other units has been reduced.
2.    In the same paragraph (i.e., para. 15, page 4), the Bank refers to Graph 2, which shows
changes in Gecamines' unit cost of copper production and the LME sales price. A better
understanding of Gecamines' production cost is obtained by using the concept of production cost
as a function of the copper equivalent. The copper equivalent is calculated by converting cobalt
and zinc output figures into copper equivalent. This is done by applying a conversion coefficient
equal to the ratio between their respective actual selling prices. Beginning in 1992, revenue from
cobalt sales began to draw closer to copper revenues. Using the concept of copper equivalent,
the reworked graph, given on page 14, which reflects actual figures for 1988-1992, a provisional
estimate for 1993, and budget projections for 1994 (94PRa and 94PRb), can be interpreted as
follows:
The effect of the price of cobalt on the copper equivalent production cost expressed in
cents/lb is obvious. Compared to 1993, the results so far for 1994 are significantly
better, in the sense that the 1994 program (on which the projections are based) is being
adhered to, and the actual selling price of cobalt is at least $18/lb. However, financial
equilibrium will not be achieved through this survival program.  The equilibrium
achieved in 1992 can be ascribed to non-operating income.
3.    The Bank's review then continues as follows:
"During the same period, copper output declined from 425,000 to 339,000 tons due to
inadequate drainage of open-pit mines (resulting in flooding) and poor maintenance of
trucks and shovels (see graphs 1 and 2). In addition, the central portion of Kamoto,
Gecamines' largest underground mine, collapsed in September 1990."
We propose that this statement be rewritten as follows: "During the same period, copper
output declined from 425,000 to 339,000 tons after the cave-in of the Kamoto mine, inadequate
drainage of the Kolwezi open-pit mines, and availability problems with major production
equipment (see graphs 1 and 2)."
Bank's note: Following Gecamines' comment the statement was rewritten as suggested.
2.2. Page 8, para. 19(d)
The Bank's review states:  "Due to the excessive cash-flow demands placed on
Gecamines, the company was not able to operate and maintain its mines and installations in
accordance with sound industrial and engineering practices (PA 3.02). This could explain for
instance the collapse of the underground mine at Kamoto in 1990. Other examples of unsound
industrial practice include ineffective pumping operations and the considerable backlog in
overburden removal in the open pit mines."



14
88 R      89 R       90 R      91 R       92 R       93 R     94PRa     94PRb
copperppnce (cts/lb)            117.4      120.1      116.3     103.3      103.9      85.4       81.1       81.1
cobalt price (S/lb)               6.4        7.2       7.5       11.4       22.6      12.7       10.8       18.0
zinc pnce (S/ton)               1,088      1,512      1,319     1,020      1,163       936        900       900
copper output (tons)          440,894    423,967    338,583    222,124    137,864   43,500     50,000     50,000
cobalt output (tons)            8,847      8,314     9,550      8,562      6,428      1,420     6,200      6,200
zinc output (tons)             61,085     54,041     38,203    28,317     18,830     4,200      8,200      8,200
coef. equivalence cobalt/copper  5.48       6.01       6.41      1.99      21.78      14.89     13.32      22.19
coef. equivalence zinc/copper    0.42       0.57       0.51      0.45       0.51      0.50       0.50       0.50
copper (tons)                 440,894    423,967    338,583    222,124    137,864    43,500    50,000     50,000
processedcobalt(tons)          48,518     49,985     61,197    94,092    140,027     21,144    82,555    137,591
processed zinc (tons)          25,671     30,863     19,660    12,685      9,558     2,089      4,127      4,127
output of copperequivalent    515,083    504,815    419,440    328,902    287,449    66,733    136.682    191,718
productioncost                   108.3     122.8      150.0     135.8      103.5     351.5      162.5      116.5
Copper Price and Gecamines' Production Cost of Copper Equivalent
400
350                                                                        A
300                                                                     /
'200
150
100
50
0                I             I
88 R          89 R         90 R          91 R          92 R          93 R         94PRa         94PRb
-   Coppefr Price                            O      Production Cost of Copper Equivalent      . 



15
We believe a statement in the following terms would give a clearer picture: "A difficult
cash position, due mainly to excessive cash-flow demands, made it impossible for Gecamines to
keep up adequate stocks of spare-parts, subsets, and diesel fuel. This in turn prevented it from
operating and maintaining its mines and installations in accordance with normal industrial and
engineering practices. This explains, among other things, the collapse of the Kamoto mine in
1990, as well as the backlog in overburden removal and the ineffective pumping operations at the
Kolwezi open-pit mines."
Bank's note: Following Gecamines' comment the statement was rewritten as suggested.
2.3. Page 10, para. 26
The Bank asserts in this paragraph that in 1991 Gecamines was unable to prepare and
present an emergency recovery program.  However, paragraph 16 includes the following
statement: "[T]he co-financiers urged Zairian authorities to reduce the tax burden on Gecamines
so as to restore the company's liquidity, and asked Gecamines to prepare an emergency recovery
plan. Gecamines prepared such a plan which was reviewed during a co-financiers meeting in
October 1991. The plan contained positive elements, but was not up to the magnitude of the
crisis faced by the company."
These two paragraphs need to be reconciled.
Bank's note: Paragraph 26 refers to a coherent emergency recovery program and it is
thus consistent with paragraph 16, which states that a plan with positive elements was prepared
but fell short of dealing with the severe crisis faced by Gecamines.
3. PROJECT SETTING
3.1. Overall project objectives
The Borrower's general aims were to: (a) halt decline in output; (b) improve cost-
competitiveness; and (c) diversify into products with higher value added.
The specific objectives of the Second Technical Assistance Project (or IDA 2) were to:
*     help Gecamines reduce costs and increase operating efficiency; and
*     accelerate the rehabilitation program, while preparing its next stage.
Thus, IDA 2 served as a support to Loan 2682-ZR, which was in the course of execution.
3.2. Sector objectives
3.2.1. Purchasing and materials management
3.2.1.1. The 1973 oil crisis caused a series of cash-flow difficulties for the company.
The situation has been deteriorating from year to year, creating such increasingly complex
management problems as:



16
*      a steady increase in shortages of inventory items;
*      increasing loss of standardization as a result of external financing arrangements associated
with limitations in specifying the countries of origin of the ordered equipment. This
resulted in poor maintenance of an increasingly wider range of equipment and materials;
and
*      delays in withdrawing deteriorating equipment from  service, leading to higher
expenditures on maintenance and supplies.
In this complex situation, operating units ascribed a high proportion of equipment
availability failures to lack of spare-parts, while the Directorate of Procurement and
Transportation attributed the lack of spares to year-to-year shrinkage of budget allocations to the
point where any better reordering algorithm would have been rendered ineffective. These
problems in the operating units and procurement divisions led senior management to award,
through competitive bidding procedures, a contract for a diagnostic study of Gecamines'
procurement system to a consulting firm (McKinsey and Company, Inc.) in August 1989.
3.2.1.2. The consultants (with assistance from operations and procurement specialists
at Gecamines) concluded that the company's problems went beyond the procurement area and,
in fact, sprang from the whole decision-making process as it affected procurement, maintenance,
rehabilitation, and withdrawal of deteriorating equipment from service.  According to the
consultants, these problems could only be resolved by introducing an integrated logistical system.
McKinsey and Company, Inc. presented their recommendations in January 1990. The Gecamines
Board accepted them, and the implementation process (known as Operation Phoenix) began the
following April.
In 1979 and 1980, the consulting firm Coopers & Lybrand were commissioned to carry
out a study toward the restructuring of Gecamines. The reorganization process selected as a
result of this study was based on the following main lines of action:
i      decentralizing the production entities;
*      vesting in these entities the responsibility/accountability for the resources needed to
achieve their production objectives; and
*      giving the entities the central control of the use of these resources.
While Coopers & Lybrand recommended a specific study for the Directorate of Finances
and the Directorate of Procurement and Transportation, they had also set up three new functional
units (import-export, traffic, tracking of orders) and proposed that procurement and spare-parts
manufacturing operations be brought together in a single unit to be named as "Directorate of
Procurement and Services." The key reason for this regrouping was the need to coordinate
procurement and manufacturing decisions so as to keep the classic "make or buy" types of choice
as sound as possible.
However, the need remained for a far-reaching reorganization of procurement operations.
As a result, McKinsey and Company Inc., made a more in-depth diagnostic study between August
1989 and January 1990 and identified 11 areas of difficulty:
1.    shortcomings in contract administration;
2.     excessive reliance on intermediaries;



17
3.    failure to exploit full bargaining powers;
4.     gaps in inventories;
5.    significant obsolescence in inventories;
6.    reordering according to very complex statistical parameters;
7.     unreliable databases;
8.     need to standardize equipment fleet;
9.    late and random withdrawals of deteriorating equipment from service;
10.    uneconomical renovation and rehabilitation decisions; and
11.   uneconomical subcontracting decisions.
Based on this list of problem areas, McKinsey and Company Inc. proposed a program
of changes centered around three main areas of action and eight key recommendations.
The three main areas of action were:
*     Strategy:      To seek optimum financial balance in all decision-making processes;
*     Jurisdiction: To develop appropriate decision-making rules and operating structures; and
i     Culture:      To develop a professional sense of responsibility and strengthen
accountability.
The eight key recommendations were:
3     Classify inventory stocks according to their technical and financial importance;
3     Take full command of purchases and suppliers;
*     Ensure database reliability;
*     Model financial decisions;
*     Standardize equipment purchases;
-     Reshape the equipment fleet;
*      )Decentralize under controls; and
*     Motivate and make accountable operations staff.
As far as the company's logistics were concerned, the consultants' recommendations were
interpreted to indicate that the following principles should be followed:
*     Decentralize inventory management;
*     Centralize purchasing;
*     Centralize management of strategic articles; and
*     Integrate logistical arrangements.
Although the responsibility for implementation of the reorganization project was originally
given to a separate entity, toward the end of 1991 it was assigned to the Directorate of
Procurement and Transportation. The reason for this change was to eliminate the problems of
duplication and overlapping, which very soon surfaced in connection with the execution of certain
decisions and the contract award process.
The concept of integrated logistics advocated by the consultants was never clear enough
to win the support of Gecamines Exploitation.  This created additional difficulties in the
implementation of the reorganization project. A team of individual experts, wishing to go beyond



18
the initial objectives, put forward a series of proposals to reorganize the company and create an
ambitious integrated logistics unit. The responsibilities of the latter were to include, for example,
*     management of flows of materials;
*     management of information flows (including information technology); and
*     management of production (including planning).
This went disproportionally beyond the McKinsey recommendations.
3.2.1.3. The reorganization project was to be launched in January 1990 under the
umbrella of a separate entity set up to handle three sub-projects:
*     a decentralization project covering "management of stocks;"
*     a centralization project covering "management of purchases;" and
*     an investments project covering "management of equipment and subsets."
A team of individual experts (including the coordinator of Operation Phoenix and a group
of Gecamines staff associated from the outset with the McKinsey diagnostic study) was to work
together on this venture.
3.2.2. Management of Maintenance, Repairs, and Spare Parts Manufacturing
3.2.2.1. The main concerns under each of these areas were as follows:
*     Maintenance
1. Utilizing materials correctly;
2. Keeping equipment in good repair; and
3. Reducing consumption of spare-parts and subsets.
-     Repairs
Providing a maximum of subsets and quality service at minimum cost and as promptly
as possible.
*     Spare-Parts Manufacturing
Supplying operating centers with items manufactured locally from foundry materials, but
of the same quality and performance as imported ones. This was to be done on the basis
of new manufacturing studies and sound technical and financial choices.
3.2.2.2.  Given the shortcomings and inefficiencies observed in the above areas,
diagnostic studies were carried out to identify remedial actions.  Gecamines requested the
assistance of the World Bank in financing a separate sub-project to upgrade supervision and
training in connection with maintenance and spare-parts manufacturing operations.
The goals of this sub-project were:
*     To evaluate the company's organizational and technical capacity in the area of
maintenance and spare-parts manufacturing operations from the institutional standpoint,



19
as well as to evaluate the professional/vocational abilities of trainers to determine the
steps required to meet the retraining needs of permanent trainers.
*      To enable CFC, the Professional and Supervisory Staff Training Center (Centre de
formation de cadres et agents de maitrise), to take on responsibility for a management
consulting program that would consist of organizing and setting up development units.
*      To assist CFC in setting up these pilot development units.
Implementation of sub-project activities was to be spread out over a twelve-month period.
3.2.3. Personnel Management and Training
3.2.3.1. Job grading and compensation policy
In view of the shortcomings of Gecamines' job classification method (which was better
suited for a less skilled work force using simple operating techniques under the direction of
primarily expatriate supervisors), it was decided to commission consultants to undertake a study
focused on:
*      instituting an integrated job classification system covering executive posts up to the level
of Division Chief;
*      formulating a salary policy to fit the proposed job classification system; and
*      introducing a system of bonuses.
Subsequently, the consultants were also asked to outline a master plan for manpower
planning at Gecamines. Invitations to bid were issued to a short list of five firms or organizations
specializing in the fields of classification and qualifications. The firm CADIC-GOMBERT was
awarded the contract. The project, launched in 1988, was originally expected to take four years,
but the consultants followed an accelerated work program which reduced the period to two years.
Their final report was presented in January 1991 and its major recommendations were accepted
by Gecamines.
3.2.3.2. Training of trainers
*      In order to obtain an evaluation of the achievements of CFC since its inception,
Gecamines decided to commission a study with the following objectives:
1. To make a critical assessment of CFC after its first 10 years of existence;
2. To identify CFC's needs for institutional and technical reinforcement; and
3. To train CFC professionals in how to provide advisory services.
*      The study was to be carried out by the firm FRANCOIS LESSARD under a contract
approved by the donor. The study (requiring a total of 135 consultant-days spread over
a year) was launched in January 1991.
*      An addendum to the contract was signed after the first two of the above objectives had
been met. Under its terms, the consultants were to assist CFC and FRT (G6camines'



20
Technical Training Division) with projects focused on raising mining output and
improving maintenance workshop performance.
3.2.3.3. MDPA Project
The objective of this project was to train staff at the Kambove Technical Training Center
(FRT) and at Gecamines production centers in hydropneumatics, boilermaking, and industrial
electronics.
3.2.4. Financial Manaeement
Gecamines Exploitation has obtained long-term financing from various donors for the
investment projects forming part of its Five-Year Investment Program.  One of the prior
conditions for disbursement of funds by both the World Bank and the European Investment Bank
was that G6camines would present a program to expand the use of cost accounting, accounting
controls, and cost reduction measures. Donors were to give their reactions to this program. In
order to be able to meet this prior condition, Gecamines began, in 1990, a reorganization of its
Finance Directorate to which there were two components:
e     Creation of a General Treasury Division responsible for:
(a)    Optimal management of the funds generated by the company;
(b)    The company's short- and long-term  financing strategies and reduction of
financing costs; and
(c)    Computerization of cash management operations.
-     Creation of a General Audit Division with the following major functions:
(a)    Decentralization of financial management; and
(b)    Introduction of new  management information and accounting management
systems.
It is important to emphasize that the company's old financial systems had become
outdated, complex, and slow.  As a result, they were no longer sources of financial and
accounting information essential for the analysis and reduction of costs. Of the various systems
planned as part of this reorganization, the intended cost accounting system could not be finalized
since it required major financial resources. As a result, Gecamines applied to the World Bank
for additional financing. The reorganization of the units making up the Finance Directorate,
together with the introduction of new accounting systems, required the services of highly qualified
personnel. The costs of their recruitment and remuneration were met with assistance from
international banks.
The specific objectives of the cost accounting system provided under the terms of Credit
2051-ZR were to allow:
*     monitoring and control of the costs of production and maintenance operations;
*     computation of the cost price of operations which, with the help of management
performance indicators, would enable managers at all levels to choose the least cost
solutions when making technical decisions;
*     assessment of the value of stocks of products whether finished or in production; and



21
*     preparation of monthly financial statements.
In the medium- and long-run the specific objectives were to generate:
*     financial information required for investment decisions;
*     data and projections required for strategic decisions; and
*     annual and longer-term financial statements.
Introduction of such a system was the most important component of the reorganization,
mainly because it would permit the generation of reliable monthly statements of condition, which
was the best tool for effective management and reduction of costs.
3.2.5. Information Technology
The main objective in this area was to go ahead with the implementation of the
reconmmendations contained in the Information Technology Master Plan by taking the steps which
Coopers & Lybrand had advocated in the financial and procurement/materials management
spheres.  Technical assistance to achieve this objective consisted mainly of recruitment of
expatriate personnel in the company's Information Technology and Telecommunications
Department. Recruitment led to new contracts with the consultants Stolz, Mortier, van Hamme,
Pire, and Boller (later replaced by Hennus) and extension of existing ones with Bourgeois,
Loosfelt, and van Onderbergen.
3.2.6. Environmental Protection
The company's pyrometallurgical plants, outmoded in design and physically antiquated,
have been sources of pollution and environmentally harmrful gases and particles. The same has
been true for its hydrometallurgical plants, which have been sources of wastes that pollute
groundwater resources. Aware of this state of affairs and anxious to put an end to it, Gecamines
launched an environmental protection project designed to lead to formulation of an action plan
for conservation of the environment. The company has been determined to keep pollution levels
from its operations within the limits set by increasingly stringent international norms.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1. Overall Project Implementation
The IDA 2 project, which was negotiated in June 1984 and became effective on March
13, 1990, entered the implementation phase behind schedule owing to delays on the part of the
World Bank in disbursing funds. The reason for this delay was because the Bank was hesitant
for a long period to accept evidence submitted by Gecamines and the Zairian Government in
support of their ability to meet the preliminary conditions for project effectiveness.
4.2. Implementation of Sub-projects by Sector
4.2. 1. Procurement
Although scheduled to begin in January 1990, the project was actually launched in April
1990, as preliminary work was needed to:



22
*     define the ideal structure for implementing the McKinsey recommendations; and
*     define the final structure, various resource requirements, and the action plan.
4.2.1.1. Implementation schedule and appraisal
4.2.1.1.1. Purchasing: Centralization Project
Contract items
(a) Negotiations
*     A framework for negotiations was developed.
*     Some negotiations anticipated by McKinsey did not take place for certain high-cost
products used in large volumes such as maize, diesel fuel, oil, gasoline, sulfur,
lubricants, coke, coal, and steel.
*     The political environment and the company's accounts receivable situation prevented the
successful completion of certain negotiations.
(b) Contracts initiated under Operation Phoenix
*     In the context of Operation Phoenix, 15 contracts were concluded: three five-year
contracts for the period 1990-1995 and 12 three-year contracts for either 1990-1993 or
1991-1994.
*     Gecamines did not terminate these contacts.
*     As a result of the company's cash flow problems, suppliers discontinued to fulfill orders
under certain contracts.
(c) Contracts not negotiated under Operation Phoenix
*     Four major products, which were not covered by contracts, were submitted to
competitive bidding. For each product the successful bidder was the lowest.
*     The changes in minimum C & F prices for these items after negotiation were:
1990         1991          1992          1993          1994
300 (a)
Maize        US$/ton              326           326          380           240 (b)       300
Diesel fuel (*) US$/cubic meter   405           382          339           342           270
Gasoline (*)   US$/cubic meter    470           383          369           330           340
Sulfur       US$/ton              259           280          280           235           320
(*) C&F Sakania            (a) White maize            (b) Yellow maize



23
*     Despite the company's weak bargaining position, due to partners' lack of confidence in
its ability to pay, price levels continued. However, the ideal situation in which they
would have declined was not attained, even though the monopoly held by certain traders
on some markets was lifted.
*     The company continued to purchase lubricants and fuel from traditional suppliers:
*      fuel from the two closest producers in the South African sub-region, namely
WANKIE and MAAMBA; and
*      lubricants from local oil companies under the public price structure.
(d) Intermediaries
Cash flow problems forced the company to deal with intermediaries who were willing to
provide some credit facilities.
Interactive purchasing system
*      From the administrative/bureaucratic standpoint, the objective of cutting throughput time
for requisitions was met through the development and adoption of the so-called
Interactive Purchasing System.
*     This system allows requisitions authorized by the various divisions of the company to be
validated electronically and recorded directly at central headquarters.
*     Crisis management measures included adoption of restrictive audit procedures requiring
that requisitions be checked manually at several levels, with the inevitable accompanying
bureaucratic delays.
*     Thus, the impact of crisis management methods on bureaucratic delays runs counter to
the thrust of an application like the Interactive Purchasing System, which is now ready
to be introduced and it is designed to cut such delays. However, this is a factor beyond
company control.
Central warehouses
*     Using a modular building plan, approved by the company's three geographical divisions,
the western division built part of its Kolwezi central warehouse. Completion of the
remainder of the process is contingent on the availability of financing, and would involve:
*     Completion of the central warehouse in Kolwezi                  US$2.2 million
Construction of the central warehouses for the southern
and central divisions                                           US$3.1 million
*     Thus, construction of the central warehouses can be resumed and completed with an
investment of US$5.3 million.



24
Market database
Because of difficulties in acquiring the SAP software package, even in modular form, the
company has been unable to build up a market database. This has kept its capacity to conduct
market studies at sub-optimum levels.
Establishment of Units
*     Of the 14 units initially planned, seven had been set up under the supervision of the
individual experts, and another, the "Road Equipment and Materials" unit, was
established after their departure.
*     The six remaining units are to be developed and set up under the umbrella of the recently
created Department of Studies and Monitoring. However, difficulties associated with the
prevailing situation have delayed the project.
Partnerships
The current financial and socio-political environment in which the company is obliged
to operate does not help to attract interest from prospective partners. However, development of
partnerships is high on the company's agenda, and the issue will be addressed as soon as financial
resources are available.
4.2.1.1.2. Inventory Management: Decentralization Project
Classification
*     The classification of inventory items, which is now completed, has led to identification
of approximately 228,000 obsolete items and 98,000 current items. 30% of the latter
group are items with a major financial impact.
*     With regard to the specific policies on management of these items, we note the following:
(a)    Items with major financial impact are managed centrally within the units initially
grouped to form the Product Management Office, which has since been raised to
the rank of a division, called the Strategic Items Management Division.
(b)    Because decentralization could not be initiated, other current inventory items are
still managed by the old main warehouses in the context of an arrangement under
which operating, financial, and procurement departments consult together at the
central level.
*     Although new re-ordering algorithms were introduced, use of the automated management
system was almost completely discontinued after a series of trails in early 1992 in order
to avoid generating additional commitments that the company could not meet.
*     Not surprisingly, service performance continues to deteriorate except where a few
strategic items are concerned.
*     So far, it has not been possible to replenish inventories of current items on a steady basis.



25
Decentralization
*     Decentralization cannot be initiated due to non-availability of the required computer tools.
*     The cost of the SAP software package, selected after a normal search process and on the
recommendation of an expert from McKinsey is estimated at US$4 million.
*     Considerable expenses have already been incurred in connection with selection of this
software:
search/investigation missions abroad; and
contracts for MAD staff at the Information Technology and Telecommunications
Department.
*     The leader of the MAD staff team fails completely to follow any know-how transfer
policy.
Central control
The principles and organization of a control system as recommended by McKinsey have
taken material form through the intermediate, modular structure recently set up as part of the
Procurement and Transportation Department. This is an indication of Gecamines' resolve to
decentralize procurement but under central control.
API+ Application
The API+ application, which is a simplified version of API, has virtually not been used
due to cash flow problems. Its effectiveness is measurable only in the context of regular re-
ordering.
4.2.1.1.3. Materials Management
*     The Investment Project came to a halt due to cash flow problems. However, the
following work was accomplished:
the DER (Economic Rehabilitation Decision) Data Processing Module was
brought into service in workshops in the western division;
*     a subcontracting control matrix was developed, but it will need to be adjusted to
the functional lines directly involved in the decision-making process.
The other project components have been discontinued due to lack of field personnel.
*     In any event, only when the company's cash flow situation improves will the advantages
of planned developments materialize. Such developments cannot continue under the
prevailing circumstances, as they will be doomed to failure.



26
4.2.2. Maintenance, Repairs, and Spare-Parts Manufacturing
This project never reached the implementation stage for administrative reasons, mainly
inability to agree, after the maintenance audit, on the content of its final version. However, the
need for this project was underscored by foreign firms, which pointed to certain deficiencies in
the Maintenance and Workshops Department, rehabilitation of which is still an imperative.
4.2.3. Personnel Management and Training
4.2.3.1. Job grading and compensation policy
Work on the job classification system and remuneration policy was initiated in 1988 and
an amendment to the initial contract pertaining to manpower planning was later signed. A second
amendment to the contract was also signed, extending technical assistance for job classification
and remuneration policy to personnel at departmental and directorate levels.
4.2.3.2. Training of trainers
This project was initiated in January 1991 and progressed normally until CFC facilities
were destroyed in the September 1991 riots. The consultants returned in March 1992 to provide
advisory and technical assistance services, but the project was discontinued after the World Bank
suspended financing.
4.2.3.3. MDPA project
The consultants' services for this project were suspended after the events of October
1991. Work accomplished as of that date can be broken down as follows (time spent):
*     Boiler works:                       4 out of 12 months;
*     Electronics:                        4 out of 6 months;
*     Hydropneumatics:                    2 out of 6 months.
4.2.4. Finances
For the purposes of this Project Completion Report, we have mainly evaluated the
execution of the project in regards to the development and introduction of the GLI system of cost
accounting. Initially, the project designer planned to study and install the new system throughout
the company. However, this approach proved impractical since Gecamines consists of nearly 25
production units and as many functional units. Another approach was then adopted, namely to
develop pilot projects in the most representative areas of the company. This was a step which
naturally delayed implementation of the project as a whole. According to the initial schedule,
implementation was to begin in 1987 and to be completed within 18 months. Because a number
of difficulties were underestimated at the outset, the implementation schedule was revised in 1989
to extend over a three-year period.
The project was launched with the following personnel teams provided under the new
schedule:
*     Mines                 1 project manager, 4 analysts;
*     Workshops             1 project manager, 4 analysts;



27
*     Metallurgy            I project manager, 3 analysts;
*     Functional sector     2 analysts.
Two computer specialists were also assigned to the project. The three project managers
and one functional sector analyst received training in the GLI system in Europe. The budget
allocated for this project was almost entirely spent in the initial phases - analysis of the existing
system, and design and definition of operating procedures for the new system. There were a
number of reasons for this including:
*     the diversity of the company's business activities, products, and services;
*     deficiencies in the quality of data entry in many areas;
*     inadequate staff (in terms of both their qualifications and their number) for a project of
this magnitude, especially in the sphere of information technology assistance; and
*     faulty command of the new MacCormack & Dodge software.
In 1990, the contract of the manager of the Metallurgy component was not renewed and,
as a consequence, the implementation of this component was temporarily suspended.
Subsequently, the overall responsibility for this implementation was taken over by the manager
of the Mines component. In mid-1991, the contract of the manager of the Workshops component
expired, and the analysts (Zairian nationals) continued the implementation of the component on
their own. During the uprisings in October 1991, the manager of the Mines component and
several computer specialists returned to Europe permanently. The managers of the various
components of this project left without handing over properly. Moreover, they did not leave in
the company any records of the project. This meant that the team of national analysts had to
tackle the job of drafting new functional analysis documents.
In June 1992, two new entities were set up within DFI to revitalize implementation of
this project:
3     the Financial Systems Division, in charge of finalizing functional analysis, data-
processing, development follow-up, and testing; and
3     the Cost Accounting Systems Division, in charge of placing completed modules in service
and implementing new procedures.
Despite this new organization, problems were encountered with the functional installation
of certain modules which the previous team was responsible to complete. Therefore, this work
had to be redone. In addition, continued progress with this project was hindered by the following
problems:
*     lack of a project manager familiar with the documentation;
*     lack of functional analysis documentation;
*     revisions and additions of functions omitted at the time of the basic analysis;
*     inadequately trained analysts;
*     deficiencies in project management techniques; and
*      lack of experience in modern management techniques.
4.2.5. Information Technologv
To start up the financial applications under the millennium monitor, MAD personnel
were needed to strengthen the team of analysts/progranmmers. In addition, the contract of Mr.



28
Loosfelt, who was at the time manager of the information technology project, was extended and
new contracts were drawn up for Mr. Mortier and Mr. Pire. This project was initiated at the
request of the Finance Directorate, which was firmly resolved to make optimum use of the AP:M
and GL:M software, purchased from MacCormack & Dodge on the recommendation of Coopers
& Lybrand. Assistance from the team of analysts/programmers was also needed to develop the
purchasing management applications as recommended by McKinsey & Company Inc. The
contracts of Mr. Bourgeois and Mr. van Onderbergen were extended, and new contracts were
drawn up for Messrs. Stolz, van Hamme and Boller, specifically for taking charge of the SAP
software.
The implementation of the Financial Project got off to a quick start but then slowed down
after the initiators left. The Information Technology Directorate was left without a
correspondent/user familiar with the objectives of the applications to be installed. Work on the
project was suspended until qualified nationals could assume responsibility. All MAD personnel
left after 1993. At the present time, the project is nearly complete.
The SEPEA procurement, rehabilitation and sub-assemblies project was not initiated since
the SAP software was never acquired. Personnel hired to work on it were thus assigned other
duties, mainly related to maintenance of several existing applications.  Some problems
encountered in the implementation of this project stemmed from the fact that employees were
brought on board before the tools they were hired to work with were acquired. Among others,
we cite the cases of Mr. Stolz and Mr. van Hamme, insofar as the work they performed was not
satisfactory.
4.2.6. Envirommental Protection
Work has never begun on this project due to lack of an expert to review the draft Terms
of Reference which were prepared approximately three years ago.
5. PERFORMANCE AND OVERALL RESULTS
5.1. Overall Project Performance
Initial objectives were not met due to delays on the part of the World Bank in mobilizing
and releasing funds, as well as to the small percentage (11.5%) of Credit proceeds committed for
project implementation.
5.2 Performance by Sector
5.2.1. Procurement
5.2.1.1. Consultants' performance
0     McKinsey's approach, which was on the strategic level, failed to solve major tactical
problems, such as calculation of an economical method to order quantities for inventory
management.



29
*      The development of this concept had to be carried out entirely under Operation Phoenix.
Individual consultants
*      The personal involvement of certain individual experts in contract negotiations distorted
the role of the consulting firm retained, and was responsible for duplication and
overlapping that affected certain decisions, as well as the contract award process.
*      The lack of tact in social contacts, as well as the development of a special-interest group
undermined incentives to cooperate, and generated conflicts with local managers.
5.2.1.2. Technical performance
Relative to initial objectives, Gecamines' evaluation of the results is as follows:
(a) Restructuring
Long after the individual consultants left, an intermediate, modular organization
implemented in stages was finally developed along the general lines of the McKinsey
recommendations. This structure is still centralized, but it is flexible to allow for decentralization.
G6camines' compliance with McKinsey's fundamental recommendations is confirmed by:
*      the Inventory Management Divisions which were created within each of the company's
operating territories to prepare for effective decentralization;
*      the creation of a Division responsible for the centralized management of strategic items;
*     the creation within the Purchasing Department of a unit responsible for contract
management and high-cost contracts; and
*      the creation of a unit responsible for central audit and for continuing the studies initiated
by McKinsey and Company Inc., as well as under Operation Phoenix.
(b) Centralization Proiect
*      Development of a contract database: This objective was not met, as it was impossible
to introduce the SAP software.
*      Development of partnerships: These objectives were not achieved because the company's
financial position and misinformation on its true situation were not conducive to eliciting
interest from suppliers.
(c) Decentralization Project
*      Classification with definition of category-specific policies: These objectives were met on
the theoretical level. Their effects in the field are contingent on the availability of
financial resources for re-ordering on a steady basis. The inventory shortage ratio for
staple items deteriorated after 1990, rising that year from 15% to 29 % (compared to 5%
in 1973).



30
*     Improving the effectiveness of the inventory management system: These objectives have
not been achieved. They are contingent on development of the supporting computer
applications by the Information Technology and Telecommunications Department.
*     Auxiliary development of storage sites: These objectives have not been met. They are
contingent on the availability of financing, totaling an estimated US$22 million over an
implementation period of approximately 44 months.
*     Cleanup: Some of these objectives have been met. They are contingent not only on the
availability of the SAP software package, at an estimated cost of US$4 million, but also
on the completion of construction of the central warehouses, at an estimated cost of US$
5.3 million.
*     Decentralization objectives have not been achieved. They are contingent not only on the
availability of the SAP software package, but also on the completion of construction of
the central warehouses.
*     Introduction of Central Audit: These objectives have been partially achieved. They are
contingent on the availability of the various resources needed for operation at optimum
efficiency.
(d) Investment Project
X     Cutting operating costs: These objectives have been met only to a very limited extent,
and only at the theoretical level. While the DER (Economic Rehabilitation Decision)
application was placed in service in workshops in the company's western geographical
division (it now requires improvement in response time), the worsening financial crisis
cannot be resolved by focusing on costs alone. In addition, this application has yet to be
installed in other workshops, such as ACE, KTO and KHI.
*     Improving returns on invested capital: These objectives have been achieved only to a
limited extent. In fact, standard criteria were defined only for underground shovels and
vertical drilling equipment at Kamoto. Benefits from these standard criteria can be
reaped only after Gecamines is on a sound enough footing to apply them in making future
capital investment decisions. The problem remains unresolved for most equipment.
*     As a result of the high proportion of objectives which were not achieved in the area of
improved returns on capital invested, the following problems have not been resolved:
Brand proliferation, with the following consequences:
*     complexity of maintenance and rehabilitation; and
*      reduced control over these operations, resulting in a lower availability ratio.
Outdated equipment, with the following consequences:
*     difficulty in controlling costs due to non-standard procurement requests; and
*     excessive maintenance cost burden.



31
*     Development and implementation of cost-effective decision-making systems for
purchasing, rehabilitation, sub-contracting, and development of investment procedures:
These objectives have not been met.
5.2.2. Maintenance
The implementation of this project component, which started on September 18, 1991, was
suspended on the 21st of that month following riots in the Shaba Province. Subsequently, CFC
took over after the consultants left. However, after the events in Kolwezi, several Zairian
technicians attached to SKM headquarters left, thus making it impossible to continue the
implementation of the component.
5.2.3. Personnel
5.2.3.1. Job grading system and compensation policy
The consultant's report indicated that the objectives assigned to him were only partly
completed.  He managed to review no more than two-thirds of the jobs indicated in the
organization chart. The consultant's recommendations were not applied because they were not
consistent with the company's corporate culture.
The task of implementing a remuneration policy based on conclusions reported previously
was assigned to another expert, who never completed the work due to a variety of difficulties
(methodology, technology, logistics, etc.). One reason the proposed remuneration policy was
ineffective was that it was based on a tool (job control curve) which was not well defined and,
more importantly, which the consultant had never tested elsewhere. Consequently, at this time,
no conclusion can be drawn on the remuneration policy or on substitution of salary for social
benefits.
5.2.3.2. Manpower planning
The final report on this project appears to be of no use to the company because the
management believes that the objectives (implementation of a manpower planning process at
Gecamines, evaluation of corporate staff, and training of employees in manpower planning
methods) do not seem to have been met. The consultant recognized this in his report, in which
he indicated that it was impossible for him to prepare a manpower plan for Gecamines under the
prevailing conditions.
5.2.3.3. Training of trainers
Generally, the initial objectives (CFC audit and retraining of CFC professionals) were
achieved. Contractual conditions were met until financing was discontinued. The results were
excellent and highly appreciated.
5.2.3.4. MDPA
Project objectives were not met as a result of the 1991 riots.



32
5.2.4. Finances
Overall, the cost accounting system component of the project did not meet the company's
expectations. The reasons for this failure can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Nationals did not participate in the design of the new system or in the decisions affecting
its implementation, with the result that Zairian personnel lacked comprehensive
knowledge of all aspects of project documentation and history;
(b)    There was lack of analytical documents, clearly describing the procedures and logical
stages for implementing the various project phases;
(c)    The expatriate project managers were not completely familiar with the MacCormack
software. This entailed many months of on-the-job training and work by trial and error
before and during project implementation;
(d)    There was lack of cooperation among the various project managers, all of whom
disagreed completely on the way to approach the project;
(e)    There was lack of adequate, comprehensive technical training for Zairian nationals, who
were expected to take over the operation of the new system during the final phase. In
fact, 90% of the training sessions abroad under this project were conducted for the
project managers, to the detriment of local personnel. It should also be noted that local
personnel did not participate in informal training sessions held locally;
(f)    The former cost accounting system, which should have served as a reference, was
discontinued abruptly. As a result, there were gaps in functional analysis, which brought
the overall project into question; and
(g)    The GLI project was not completed.  As a result, audit reports were not prepared,
making it difficult, if not impossible, to achieve sustainable reductions in operating costs.
5.2.5. Information Technologv
The technical assistance component was not an outright success because most of the staff
hired did not have adequate experience, and consequently, they had to be trained on the job
through contacts with the company's analysts/programmers. This is why the project fell behind
schedule. This also explains the steady stream of requests for extensions. The expected results
were achieved only in part. With respect to rehabilitation and procurement management, the
expected results were not achieved at all.
5.2.6. Enviromnental Protection
This project component is still in the preparatory stage, as the Bank has never followed
up on the draft terms of reference which were submitted to it for review.



33
6. SURVIVAL PLAN
6.1. Summary
The purpose of the survival plan is to reach cash flow equilibrium to the extent possible,
until substantial funding can be secured to re-start the company's business activities. Funding
may be secured in the form of a contribution from the shareholder (the Government), from
external lenders, or through privatization.
During the transition period, management has implemented measures and actions designed
to guarantee the company's survival. These measures and actions focus on the following:
*     protecting all installations and equipment;
*     reallocating, consolidating, and motivating human resources;
*     reorienting production toward units which are the most profitable in terms of value
added; and
*     cutting administrative expenses.
6.2. Description of Survival Plan
6.2.1. Guidelines
*     The survival plan is based essentially on cobalt production for two reasons. First, the
trend in the cobalt market is expected to be favorable in the medium term. Second,
cobalt production will not require mobilization of substantial resources.
*     A return to high copper production levels would entail extensive excavation work,
requiring financial resources which are not available at this time.
6.2.2. Production Policy
6.2.2.1. Cobalt
In 1994 and 1995, cobalt will be produced mainly from existing inventories of cobalt
hydrate and cobalt ore in rocks. These resources will be used up by the end of 1995. Pending
on the implementation of the project for hydrometallurgical processing of tailings in Kolwezi, the
company plans to mine the small cobalt deposit in Kamnoya, which will yield 6,000 tons over a
two-year period. It may be noted that little excavation work is needed to mine this deposit.
6.2.2.2. Copper
An annual increment of 20,000 tons of copper is planned, following gradual rehabilitation
of the Kamoto underground mine and the gradual increase in SKM excavation, once KOV-
Courroies is in operation.  Activity remains concentrated on the most productive sites.
Installations which cannot be exploited profitably under the prevailing conditions will remain idle,
and appropriate measures will be taken to protect them. This applies to the Kipushi underground
mine, the Kakanda open-pit mine and concentrator, and the Lubumbashi factories. The Luilu
factory will remain closed until adequate production levels can be reached to operate it at a profit.



34
6.2.2.3. Zinc
In 1994, zinc will be produced from concentrates now in inventory and, in subsequent
years, by flotation of old tailings from the Kipushi concentrator and the Kolwezi zinc factory.
6.2.2.4. Maintenance
Selection of machinery and installations to be kept in operation will be based on
technical/financial criteria focused on continuing necessary operations and ensuring that
production tools are kept operational at the lowest cost. Units to be shut down will be protected
from weather damage and theft. Special attention will be given to equipment used in cobalt
production.
6.2.3. Streamlining Measures
The main measures which Gecamines has begun to apply and which are to be continued
at an accelerated pace are the following:
*     concentrating the company's inadequate resources on its most profitable sectors;
re-processing of old tailings to reduce extraction from mines;
achieving higher yields in metallurgical factories and concentrators in order to reduce
extraction from mines;
cutting administrative expenses;
rationalizing human resources management by ensuring that staffing is consistent with the
company's real needs, improving supervision, and resuming training programs;
*     protecting installations from theft and vandalism; and
*     streamlining marketing channels.
In addition, the company will need to negotiate:
a tax exemption, mainly for investments, with its shareholder (the Government);
-     suitable, competitive prices with parastatal organizations (e.g., SNEL, OCS, etc.) that
do not constitute indirect subsidies to these organizations;
*     terms for repayment of its arrears with its commercial partners; and
*     debt rescheduling with donors/lenders.



35
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan 1090-ZR            Expand                    1975        Completed. Loan
production                            fully disbursed
Gecamines Expansion
Project
($100 M)
Credit 1336-ZR          Increase                   1983       Completed. Credit
efficiency of                         fully disbursed
Gecamines Technical     operations
Assistance Project
($7 M)
Loan 2682-ZR            Restore                    1986       Completed. Loan
sustainability of                     fully disbursed
Gecamines Rehabilitation  operations
Project
($110 M)



36
Table 2. Proiect Timetable
- h  uw -st -           .............! f                            
Identification                                     During supervision of Loan 2682-ZR
Preparation                                        During supervision of Loan 2682-ZR
Appraisal                           3/21/89                         3/21/89
Negotiations                        5/8/89                          5/8/89
Board Approval                      6/27/89                         6/27/89
Signature                           7/13/89                         7/13/89
Effectiveness                       10/11/89                        3/13/90
Credit Closing                      6/30/95                         2/8/94
Project Completion                  12/31/95                        2/8/94
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ($ million)
LWW,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                       ... ....,.....
1990                   i.8                    0                      0
1991                    6                     1.5                    25
1992                   10.8                  2.08                   19.3
1993                   14.6                   2.3                   15.8
1994                   17                     2.3                   13.5
1995                   20                     2.3                   11.5



37
Table 4. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle
(In staff weeks)
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .    ...  ...,,, ...,  : .N'  . , 
1989          36.3                   2.5                    0              38.8
1 990           0                    15.4                   0              15.4
1991            0                     0                    9.8              9.8
1992            0                     0                    12.7            12.7
1993            0                     0                    13.5            13.5
1994            0                     0                     0                0
TOTAL           36.3                  17.9                   36             90.2



38
Table 4. Use of Bank Resources
B. Major Project Missions
APP            3/18-4/2189         16      FA, ME, EC, CON       4/10/89          (1)
PEM  1          10/17-29/89         13         DC, FA, ME         11/16/89         (1)
PEM  2          2117-3/3/90         15       FA, ME, EC, CO       3/27/90           (1)
SPVN 1         10/23-11/1/90        10       FA, ME, EC, CO       11/29/90          (2)
COF            10/22-23/91         2        DC, ME, EC, CO       11/8/91          (NA)
SPVN 2         11/30-12/4/92         S      ME, EC, CON. RR       12/30/92          (3)
1. Activity Codes: APP=Appraisal; PEM=Pre-effectiveness Mission; SPVN=Supervision;
COF = Co-financiers Meeting.
2. Staff Codes: DC=Division Chief; EC=Econornist; ME=Mining Engineer; FA=Financial
Analyst; CO = Country Officer; RR = Resident Representative; CON = Consultant.
3. Proiect Rating Codes: 1 =problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=rmajor
problems; NA= not applicable.



39
Table 5. Gecamines Exploitation - Statement of Financial Accounts ($ million)
1988     1989      1990     1991      1992      1993
Copper gross sales                1,111.8   1,135.7    955.8    566.5    351.2    142.4
Cobalt gross sales                  221.3    162.5    257.0    296.7    162.6    117.7
Zinc gross sales                     65.3     84.5      49.4      29.5      21.4      8.8
Other Income                         50.3     64.0      57.8      64.0     47.8      28.9
TOTAL REVENUE                     1,448.7   1,446.7   1,320.0    956.7    583.0    297.8
Transport in Zaire                   61.2     48.9      38.6       9.4       4.8      0.3
Transport outside Zaire              27.0     32.5      34.4      31.0      18.6     21.3
Ocean Freight                        24.3      24.6     21.1      13.9       8.8      3.8
Refining                             25.7      31.7     36.8      19.7      12.4      4.7
Misc. & Commissions                  30.2     26.5      29.8      23.2      13.8      8.0
COMMERCIALIZATION                   168.4    164.2    160.7       97.2      58.4     38.1
Workers                              73.8      72.9    112.4      67.3     53.5      25.6
African Cadres                       35.5     40.2      45.4      34.8      33.8     15.4
Expatriates                          49.5     41.6      42.4      34.8     40.2      30.4
Others                               13.2     21.5      41.0      10.3      13.5      5.5
LABOR EXPENSES                      172.0    176.2    241.2    147.2    141.1        76.8
Spares                              318.9    326.8    320.6    239.0    163.0        89.8
Fuel                                 63.7     86.5      69.5      67.3     41.7      15.5
Others                               13.4     40.2      62.5      37.4      87.4     12.4
MATERIALS                           396.0    453.5    452.5    343.7    292.0    117.6
Power (SNEL/Inga-Shaba)              31.0     37.7      34.1      28.3     46.0      60.3
Transport                            43.1      45.6     48.1      29.3      16.9     23.6
Contractors & Misc.                  83.0    137.2    156.9       91.0      80.0     44.2
SERVICES                            157.0    220.6    239.1    148.5    142.9    128.0
PRODUCTION EXPENSES                 725.0    850.2    932.8    639.4    576.0    322.4
Taxes (excluding payroll)             4.8       8.9     10.0       7.7       6.8      5.3
Financial Expenses                   46.2     52.0      63.0      62.8     95.0      44.0
CASH OPERATING EXP.                 944.4   1,075.3   1,166.4    807.1    736.1    409.8
Depreciation                         95.5    110.8    112.1    107.9    138.4    113.7
Provisions                           12.3      14.3     69.3      70.7      7.7      15.3
OPERATING COST                    1,052.2   1,200.5   1,347.9    985.7    882.2    538.9
OPERATING RESULT                    396.5    246.2    -27.9    -29.0   -299.2   -241.1
NON OPER. RESULT                     -7.5    -55.2    -97.3    -62.7    178.4        -7.1
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                   389.0    191.0   -125.2    -91.7   -120.8   -248.2
INCOME TAX                          220.9    175.3
NET INCOME                          168.1      15.7   -125.2    -91.7   -120.8   -248.2



