Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2051 ZR
          (Second Gecamines Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 13, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2051 ZR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1989, between the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
(the Borrower) and the  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of  the  Project, described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested  the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project  will  be  carried  out  by  LA GENERALE DES
CARRIERES  ET  DES   MINES   EXPLOITATION   (Gecamines)  with  the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make  available  to  Gecamines  the  proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
Page  2
and Gecamines;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Gecamines" means La Generale des Carrieres et des Mines
Exploitation, a public  enterprise  of  the Borrower organized and
operating pursuant to  Ordonnance  No.  84-222,  dated November 2,
1984, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and Gecamines of even  date  herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  Gecamines  pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "SONATRAD" means  the  National  Trading  Company of the
Borrower, organized and operating  pursuant  to Ordonnance No. 85-
080,  dated  March  7,  1985,  as  amended  to  the  date  of this
Agreement, a public enterprise  charged  with acting as purchasing
agent on behalf of Gecamines;
     (e)  "Marketing  Agreement"   means   the  Agreement  between
Gecamines and  Gecamines  Commerciale  for  the  marketing  of the
products of Gecamines, dated January 15,  1985, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (f)  "Purchasing Agreement"  means  the Convention Specifique
between Gecamines and SONATRAD, dated March 4, 1986, as amended to
the date of this Agreement  and  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time.
     (g)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  fifteen  million  four  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in  accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1  to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so  agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
cause Gecamines to open and  maintain in dollars a special account
Page  3
in a commercial bank on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year  shall  be  applied  from  the  next  date  in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1,
commencing  October  1,  1999  and  ending  April  1,  2029.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
Page  4
     Section 2.09. Gecamines  is  designated  as representative of
the Borrower for the  purposes  of  taking  any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.O2 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Gecamines to  carry  out the Project and to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the other obligations  of  Gecamines  therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken  all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities,  services  and  other  resources,  necessary or
appropriate to enable Gecamines  to  perform such obligations, and
shall not take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the  proceeds of the Credit to
Gecamines under a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to be entered into
between the Borrower  and  Gecamines,  under  terms and conditions
which shall have  been  approved  by  the Association, which shall
include a rate of interest of  8.5%, a term of ten years including
three years' grace and the assumption by Gecamines of the foreign-
exchange risk.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  those  of  the Association and to
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the   Credit,  and  except  as  the
Association shall otherwise agree,  the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or  waive  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by Gecamines pursuant  to  Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special
Account were made on the  basis of statements of expenditures, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from the  Credit Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made; and
Page  5
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of  this Section, including those
               for the Special  Account,  audited  for each fiscal
               year  in   accordance   with  appropriate  auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year,  the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower  shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposal which  could have a substantial effect
on the organization or operations of Gecamines, Gecamines Holding,
Gecamines Commercial or Gecamines Development, prior to taking any
action  on  such  proposal;  for  the  purposes  of  this Section,
proposals concerning the structure  of  any  of such companies and
their  interrelationships,  taxes,  the  availability  of  foreign
exchange, policies on dividends and policies concerning purchasing
and procurement, and  sales  and  marketing  of products, shall be
deemed among those requiring such an exchange of views.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, at  the  request of the Association,
cause Gecamines Holding  and  any  other  party  interested in the
subject matter, to join in  the  exchange  of views referred to in
paragraph (a) above.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  permit  Gecamines to
retain in foreign exchange for its  operations at least 45% of its
revenue in  foreign  exchange  from  metal  sales,  net of related
marketing expenses.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall  ensure that the products of
Gecamines be commercialized  only through arms-length transactions
and normal marketing channels  and that clearing, barter, security
or other transactions be entered into only if:
     (a)  the  proposed   transaction   is   compatible  with  the
objectives of the arrangements  existing pursuant to Section 17.04
and Section 5.06 of  the  1975  Joint  Financing Agreement and the
1986 Loan Agreement between Gecamines and the Bank, respectively;
     (b)  such transaction results  in  prompt, full and effective
payment in the normal course of  business to or for the account of
Gecamines of the fair market value of the products included in the
transaction; and
     (c)  such payment is made  in  the foreign exchange necessary
to carry out Section 17.04  of  the 1975 Joint Financing Agreement
and Section 5.06 of the 1986 Loan Agreement.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower  shall take all measures necessary
to ensure  that:  (a)  amounts  due  from  the  sales of Gecamines
Page  6
products are credited to  the  account of Gecamines; (b) Gecamines
exercises full and effective control over the marketing operations
for its  products  and  related  transactions;  and  (c) Gecamines
participates  in  the  establishment  and  implementation  of  the
marketing policy for its products.
     Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower  shall, as and when necessary,
cause Gecamines  Commerciale,  the  Bank  of  Zaire  and any other
agency or  entity  under  its  control  which  is  involved in the
marketing, sales  or  transfer  of  funds  in  connection with the
products of Gecamines,  to  participate  in  any exchange of views
with the Association on such subjects.
     (b)  The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that Gecamines, SONATRAD  and  Gecamines Commerciale fulfill their
respective obligations  under  the  Purchasing  Agreement  and the
Marketing Agreement and  shall  act  promptly  in  response to any
proposal  by  Gecamines  for  the  amendment  of  either  of  said
Agreements. Prior to taking any  action pursuant to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall  exchange  views  with  the  Association on any
proposal  for  a   substantial   modification  of  the  applicable
legislation  or  other  arrangements  or  procedures  under  which
purchases are made by or on behalf of Gecamines or under which its
products are marketed, amounts due  for said products are paid and
the resulting transfers of funds are made.
     Section 4.06. The Borrower  shall  from time to time exchange
views, and  shall  cause  Gecamines  and  Gecamines Commerciale to
exchange  views,  with  the  Association  on  planning  for future
expansion of the  operations  of  Gecamines  and  on the financing
thereof.
     Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall
be necessary or useful on  its  part  to enable Gecamines to carry
out its obligations under  Sections  3.05  and 3.08 of the Project
Agreement, which steps shall include any action on the part of the
Bank of Zaire  which  may  be  necessary  or  useful  for any such
purposes.
     (b)  Pursuant to paragraph (a)  of this Section, the Borrower
shall ensure that the purchases made  in  the name or on behalf of
Gecamines by  SONATRAD  be  included  in  the  study  described in
Section 3.05 (a) of the Project Agreement.
     Section 4.08.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that neither the
Purchasing Agreement nor  the  Marketing  Agreement  be amended or
deviated from without the prior approval of the Association.
     Section 4.09. The Borrower  shall  furnish to the Association
by July 1, 1990, a copy of the report of the auditors covering the
year  1989  of  the  accounts  of  the  Societe  de  Developpement
Industriel et Minier du Zaire, (SODIMIZA).
     Section 4.10. The  Borrower  shall  exchange  views and shall
cause the Bank of  Zaire  to  exchange  views with the Association
prior to the  purchase  by  the  Bank  of  Zaire from Gecamines of
foreign exchange beyond the 55%  allocated  by the Borrower to the
Bank of Zaire, except if  such  purchases are to obtain zaires for
the payment of taxes or dividends due by Gecamines.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Gecamines  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
Page  7
shall have arisen which  shall  make  it improbable that Gecamines
will  be  able  to  perform  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement.
     (c)  Gecamines'  Statutes  or  any  other  law  or regulation
governing the organization  or  operation  of Gecamines shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed  or  waived so as to
affect  materially  and  adversely  the  operations  or  financial
condition of  Gecamines  or  its  ability  to  perform  any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
     (d)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment  of  Gecamines  or  for  the  suspension  of  its
operations; and
     (e)  the  Marketing  Agreement   shall   have  been  amended,
abrogated, assigned  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the operations or  financial  condition of Gecamines, or
Gecamines' control over the marketing of its products, or over its
sales receipts, or Gecamines' ability to carry out its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified  in  paragraphs  (c),  (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section l2.Ol (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and Gecamines.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  l2.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by Gecamines, and  is  legally  binding upon Gecamines in
accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  Gecamines  and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Gecamines in accordance with
its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Article IV of this Agreement  and  the provisions of paragraph (b)
of Section 5.O2 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development  Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date ten years after  the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.O9 of this
Agreement, the Commissioner of  State  of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Departement des Finances
          Boite Postale No. 12997
          Kinshasa 1
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               DENFIN                           21161 KIN GOMBE
               Kinshasa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                    By /s/ Mushobekwa K. Wa Katana
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  9
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Consultants                9,230,000        100% of foreign
     and experts'                                expenditures
     services
(2)  Studies                    2,700,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Training                   1,930,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                1,540,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 15,400,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior to
the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  assist Gecamines in
improving  its  operating   efficiency   and  reducing  costs,  in
accelerating the current  rehabilitation  program and in preparing
the next stage of such program.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Restructuring  and   improving   Gecamines'   purchasing  and
materials   management   system   including   that   related   to:
procurement, logistics, storage and inventory management. The work
would include the introduction of an improved computer system, and
be based on a plan developed  as  a  result of a complete study of
the current procurement system.
Part B:
     Improving maintenance management  and  operations, to achieve
better rehabilitation and preventive maintenance procedures and to
rationalize the spare-parts manufacturing facility.
Part C:
     Assisting the Personnel  Department  in  matters of personnel
management, particularly  in  the  area  of  manpower planning and
personnel evaluation systems; assisting the Training Department in
establishing better procedures for planning training activities.
Part D:
     Continuing and extending  the  work  underway  in the Finance
Department to implement improved accounting and financial systems.
Part E:
     Reinforcing the Data  Processing  Department  to enable it to
better support the company's financial, purchasing and maintenance
operations.
Page  10
Part F:
     Carrying out strategic studies and, in particular, developing
an environmental action plan as  an  input to the formulation of a
long-term development plan.
                 *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
