Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2051 ZR
          (Second Gecamines Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
        LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES EXPLOITATION
                        Dated July 13, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2051 ZR
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  July  13,  1989,  between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  LA  GENERALE DES
CARRIERES ET DES MINES EXPLOITATION (Gecamines).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Zaire  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifteen
million   four   hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 15,400,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Gecamines
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower  and  Gecamines,  the  proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to Gecamines on  the  terms  and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS  Gecamines,  in  consideration  of  the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a)  Gecamines  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,   economic,  financial,  engineering,
environmental and mining practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as  needed,  the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Gecamines  shall   appoint   and   maintain   until  the
completion of the Project a Project Coordinator.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, the selection of  the  consultants and experts required for
the Project and  whose  services  are  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Gecamines shall  carry  out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section  2.04.   Gecamines   shall   duly   perform  all  its
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the
Association shall otherwise  agree,  Gecamines  shall  not take or
concur in any  action  which  would  have  the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  Gecamines  shall,  at  the  request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  Gecamines shall promptly  inform  the Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  Gecamines of its obligations under
this Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. As part of  the  information to be furnished to
the Association pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of this Agreement and
Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, Gecamines shall furnish to
the Association annual reports on the status of the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of Gecamines
Page  3
     Section 3.01. Gecamines  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, economic, commercial and management practices under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section  3.02.  Gecamines  shall  at  all  times  operate and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property and,
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
mining, financial, economic and industrial practices.
     Section 3.03.  Gecamines  shall  take  out  and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. Gecamines shall  furnish  to the Association by
the end of 1989 for its comments a preliminary ten-year production
and financial plan and, by  July  1, 1990, an environmental action
plan.
     Section 3.05. (a) Gecamines shall carry out a study comparing
the actual costs  of  routine  purchases  made  directly by it and
those made  through  intermediaries,  with  suppliers'  prices and
prices in the international market,  and shall furnish the results
of such study to the Association by March 30, 1990.
     (b)  Upon the completion of  such  study, Gecamines shall, on
the basis thereof, prepare a plan  of action to achieve more cost-
effective procurement procedures and shall exchange views with the
Association on such plan.
     (c)  Such plan of action  shall  be implemented no later than
September  30,  1990,  taking  into   account  the  views  of  the
Association  thereon;   prior   to   such   date,   Gecamines,  in
consultation  with  the  Association,  shall  promptly  take  such
actions as are within its  powers  to resolve any problems as they
are identified.
     Section 3.06. In  order  to  strengthen the group responsible
for the implementation  of  the  rehabilitation project, Gecamines
shall fill the eleven top-level vacancies by the end of 1989.
     Section 3.07. Gecamines shall, by March 30, 1990, fully staff
the Strategic Planning Unit  agreed  to be established pursuant to
Section  4.04  of  its   Loan   Agreement   with  the  Bank  dated
September 18, 1986.
     Section  3.08.  Gecamines  shall   implement  the  policy  on
dividends  approved  by  the   Borrower  and  the  Association  by
September 30, 1989.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  Gecamines  shall  maintain  records  and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  Gecamines shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related  statements)  and  the  Special Account
               audited for  each  fiscal  year  in accordance with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
Page  4
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of  Gecamines  thereunder  shall  terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with  its  terms  before  the  date  specified in para-
graph (a) (ii)  of  this  Section,  the Association shall promptly
notify Gecamines of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Gecamines:
          B. P. 450
Page  5
          Lubumbashi
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                Gecamines Exploitation        234
                Lubumbashi
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Gecamines, or by Gecamines on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development  Credit  Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its President-Delegue General jointly with a Director,
or such other person  or  persons  as Gecamines shall designate in
writing, and Gecamines shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
                       EXPLOITATION
                    By /s/ Mushobekwa K. Wa Katana
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement of Consultants' Services
     In order to  assist  Gecamines  in  carrying out the Project,
Gecamines   shall   employ    consultants    and   experts   whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such consultants and
experts  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  services  required  for the
Project and to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  in  accordance with the provisions of
Page  6
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
     (b)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, Gecamines,
on behalf of  the  Borrower,  shall  furnish  to the Association a
request or requests for a deposit  or deposits which do not exceed
the amount of  the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the basis of such
request or  requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such  amount  or  amounts  as  shall  have been so
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For   replenishment   of   the   Special  Account,
                Gecamines,  on  behalf   of  the  Borrower,  shall
                furnish to the  Association  requests for deposits
                into the  Special  Account  at  such  intervals as
                shall  be  agreed   between  the  Association  and
                Gecamines.
          (ii)  Prior to or  at  the  time  of  each such request,
                Gecamines shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as shall have been
                so requested and as shall  have been shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit  Account  under  the  respective  Categories,  and  in  the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For  each  payment  made  by  Gecamines  out  of  the Special
Account, Gecamines shall, at  such  time  as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all further  withdrawals  should  be  made  directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with  the  provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, less
the amount of any  outstanding  special commitment entered into by
the  Association  pursuant   to   Section   5.02  of  the  General
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent  of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Page  7
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit  shall follow such procedures as
the Association  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower and
Gecamines. Such further withdrawals  shall  be made only after and
to the extent that the  Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice  will  be  utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower or Gecamines shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence  or such deposit or refund has
been made, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower  or  Gecamines  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The  Borrower  or  Gecamines  may,  upon  notice  to the
Association, refund to the Association  all  or any portion of the
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) or (c) of this  Schedule  shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance with the relevant provisions  of this Agreement, or the
Development Credit Agreement, including the General Conditions.
