CREDIT NUMBER 2051 ZR
Project Agreement
(Second G6camines Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES EXPLOITATION
Dated                          3  , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2051 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      13  , 1989, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA ION (the Association) and LA
GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES EXPLOITATION (G6camines).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zaire (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 15,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that G6camines
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and G6camines, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to G6camines on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS G6camines, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) G6camines declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the


﻿- 2 -
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, economic, financial, engineering,
environmental and mining practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Gdcamines shall appoint and maintain until the
completion of the Project a Project Coordinator.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the selection of the consultants and experts required for
the Project and whose services are to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. G6camines shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. Gecamines shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, G6camines shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Ccamines shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Gdcamines shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Gecamines of its obligations under
this Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. As part of the information to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and
Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, G6camines shall furnish to
the Association annual reports on the status of the Project.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of G6camines
Section 3.01. G6camines shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, economic, commercial and management practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. G6camines shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and,
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
mining, financial, economic and industrial practices.
Section 3.03. G6camines shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. G6camines shall furnish to the Association by
the end of 1989 for its comments a preliminary ten-year production
and financial plan and, by July 1, 1990, an environmental action
plan.
Section 3.05. (a) Gdcamines shall carry out a study comparing
the actual costs of routine purchases made directly by it and
those made through intermediaries, with suppliers' prices and
prices in the international market, and shall furnish the results
of such study to the Association by March 30, 1990.
(b) Upon the completion of such study, Gecamines shall, on
the basis thereof, prepare a plan of action to achieve more cost-
effective procurement procedures and shall exchange views with the
Association on such plan.
(c) Such plan of action shall be implemented no later than
September 30, 1990, taking into account the views of the
Association thereon; prior to such date, Gecamines, in
consultation with the Association, shall promptly take such
actions as are within its powers to resolve any problems as they
are identified.


﻿-4-
Section 3.06. In order to strengthen the group responsible
for the implementation of the rehabilitation project, G6camines
shall fill the eleven top-level vacancies by the end of 1989.
Section 3.07. G6camines shall, by March 30, 1990, fully staff
the Strategic Planning Unit agreed to be established pursuant to
Section 4.04 of its Loan Agreement with the Bank dated
September 18, 1986.
Section 3.08. G6camines shall implement the policy on
dividends approved by the Borrower and the Association by
September 30, 1989.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) G6camines shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) G6camines shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Terminat4on;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of G6camines thereunder shall terminate on the
eazlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify G6camines of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿--             lJjiP  : I.r         11  '
-:0~ ~   i  <' .
* ~t l.:;   .  *½  l.1:VtJ.  ~22f  9.1*  1' (lI  p ~   1
*  -  .                1 -


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Gecamines:
B. P. 450
Lubumbashi
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                   Telex:
G6camines Exploitation       234
Lubumbashi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of G6camines, or by G6camines on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its Pr6sident-Delegu6 G6ndral jointly with a Director,
or such other person or persons as G6camines shall designate in
writing, and G6camines shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/        Regional Vice  resident
Africa
IA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
EXPLOITATION
By         ARepresentative
Authorized Representative


﻿8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement of Consultants' Services
In order to assist Gecamines in carrying out the Project,
Gecamines shall employ consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants and
experts shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, G6camines,
on behalf of the Borrower, shall furnish to the Association a
request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as shall have been so
requested.
(b)   (i)  For replenish-!ent of the Special Account,
G6camines, on behalf of the Borrower, shall
furnish to the Association requests for Ieposits
into the Special Account at such inte.vals as
shall be agreed between the Association and
G6camines.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
Gecamines shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to


﻿- 10 -
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as shall have been
so requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been made out
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by Gecamines out of the Special
Account, Gecamines shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and
G6camines. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.


﻿- 11 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower or G6camines shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or such deposit or refund has
been made, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower or Gecamines shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower or G6camines may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion of the
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) or (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, or the
Development Credit Agreement, including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


