Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18770
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
(Credit 2112-GUI)
December 30, 1998
Water and Urban 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                -         GNF (Guinean franc)
FY1991: USD 1.00                               GNF 573
FY1992: USD 1.00                               GNF 835
FY1993: USD 1.00                               GNF 933
FY1994: USD 1.00                               GNF 968
FY1995: USD 1.00                               GNF 981
FY1996: USD 1.00                               GNF 997
FY1997: USD 1.00                               GNF 1028
FY1998: USD 1.00                               GNF 1155
WEIGHTS AND MESURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACGP             Agence de Controle des Grands Projets
AFD              Agence Fran 9aise de Developpement
BCEAO            Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'Afrique de l 'Ouest
CEV              Road Maintenance Unit
DATU             Directorate for Regional and Urban Planning
DGI              Direction Generale des Impots (Tax Department)
FAC              Fond d 'Aide et de Cooperation
IDA              Intemational Development Association
MUH              Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
PDU1             First Urban Project
PDU2             Second Urban Project
PDU3             Third Urban Project
PTGD             Interim Solid Waste Management Program
SPTD             Solid Waste Transfer Service (Service Public de Transfert des Dechets)
UPSU             Urban Services Technical Unit
VAT              Value Added Tax
Vice President               Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director             Mamadou Dia, AFC16
Technical Manager            Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Team Leader                  Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIL USE ONL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..............................................i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   .................................................................................................................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................. 1
1. Introduction                                     .1
2. Objectives of the Second Urban Project                       .2
Project Description in the Staff Appraisal Report            .2
Project Description in the Mid-Term Review Report              .3
3. Achievement of Objectives                              .5
Component A: Priority Urban Infrastructure                                       5
Component B: Housing Policy and Development of Urban Lands          .7
Component C: Strengthening of Urban Institutions              .8
Component D: Resource Mobilization .........................................     11
4. Major Factors Affecting the Project .12
Mobilization of the Local Counterpart Contribution .12
Delays in the Procurement Process .12
Tax Status of Project Contracts .13
5. Bank Performance .13
6. Borrower Perforance .14
Government Performance .14
Project Office Perforance .14
Performance of the Govemorate of the City of Conakry .14
7. Assessment of Outcome .14
8. Project Sustainabilit .15
9. Future Operations ...........                                                        16
10. Lessons Leared .16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                   ..18
Table 1: Summary of Assessment            ..19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits         ..20
Table 3: Project Timetable           ..20
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual         .       .      21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Inplementation   ..22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation    ..23
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project     ..24
Table 8A: Project Costs (in USD millions)      ..28
Table 8B: Project Financing           ..28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits        ..28
Table 10: Status of Covenants          ..29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements             ..31
Table 12A: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs in Staff Weeks            ..31
Table 12B: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs in USD (thousands) .       .                 3 1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions          ..32
ANNEXES
A.   Aide Memoire
Maps 22005 and 22006R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
CREDIT 2112-GUI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Urban Project in Guinea, for
which Credit 2112-GUI was approved on March 27, 1990, in the amount of SDR 43 million (USD 57
mnillion), and became effective on September 28, 1990. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998, following
three extensions of the closing date. It was disbursed up to the amount of SDR 42.3 million (USD 59.6
million). The Government of Guinea contributed USD 10 million and UNDP provided cofinancing in the
amount of USD 1.4 million, which was disbursed during the initial phase of the Project. Parallel financing
was provided by AFD (Agence Frangaise de D6veloppement) in the amount of USD 23.1 million and FAC
(Fond d 'Aide et de Cooperation) in the amount of USD 1.5 million.
2.   The ICR was prepared by Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic, Senior Urban Planner, AFTU2, and Team
Leader (November 1993-1998), with assistance from Gilles Badot, Project Assistant. Anne Blakely,
Norma Camacho Barbier and Eustache Ouayoro helped to finalize the report. The Irnplementation
Completion Report is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, various aide-memoires
and mission reports, and correspondence and discussions with individuals involved in the various phases of
the Project.
3.   The Report is accompanied by an information booklet issued by the Ministry of Urban Planning and
Housing and three video films. The first film, in Guinea's various languages, explains the street addressing
process. The two others describe the Second Urban Project from the perspective of the govenmment
officials involved ("La Parole des Autorit6s") and of the Project's beneficiaries ("La Parole aux
Habitants").
4.   The Borrower's own evaluation of the project's execution is under preparation. The complete text of
the Borrower's report will be available in French.



ii
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
CREDIT 2112-GUI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   This Implementation Completion Report evaluates the Second Urban Project of Guinea,
implemented by the Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing (MUH), and the City of Conakry.
Project Objectives
2.   The major objectives of the project, as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report, were to: (a) improve
the priority urban infrastructure in Conakry and selected secondary cities; (b) support the new land
development operations following the institutional and financial mechanisms proposed in the new housing
and land development strategy; (c) develop the role of the private sector including small-scale construction
enterprises in the provision of housing, land development and urban services; and (d) support municipal
governments and urban institutions countrywide.
3.   The World Bank conducted a mid-term review (January 1994) to refocus the Project and make it
more effective. In November 1993 only USD 8 million (14 percent of the total credit) had been disbursed.
Some components (the support for private construction enterprises) turned out to be inapplicable and had to
be modified. Other components were added or strengthened, as in the case of the street addressing operation
and the emergency solid waste management program, neither of which were planned initially. The
strengthening of urban institutions was given special attention with the goal of strengthening local
expertise. The number of permanent technical assistants was reduced drastically, leaving only key
personnel, namely, the administrative and financial coordinator and the engineer in charge of supervision of
public works (mission de contr6le).
Experience and Results
4.   The project achieved its objectives on all the components, as they were defined during the mid-
term review. It has even exceeded these objectives in certain cases, including the support for Conakry's
urban services and solid waste program.
(a) Priority Urban Infrastructure. The construction of primary roads has profoundly restructured
Conakry by increasing accessibility and opening up areas for urbanization. These roads have
allowed for the emergence of multiple zones of economic activity and the increased mobility of both
individuals and merchandise. At the same time, the rehabilitation and maintenance of secondary and
tertiary roads in Conakry has been achieved on 53 kilometers of roads, approximately 20 percent of
the secondary road network, with 10 percent financed by local counterpart funds. The rehabilitation
and construction of the drainage system in Conakry, a Governnent priority, has been successfully
executed for 277 ha of land, eliminating flooding for the beneficiary areas. The Interim Solid Waste



Management Program included the acquisition of equipment for the SPTD (Solid Waste Transfer
Service), the identification, construction and management of thirteen transfer points, the upgrade of
the access roads for the landfill, and the development of the open dump of la Miniere to a more
environmentally friendly site. Lastly, the construction and rehabilitation of priority urban
infrastructure in selected secondary cities has been successfully achieved, even though the work was
initially delayed.
(b) Urban Land Policy and Development. Despite problems, which resulted in considerable delays, the
completion of the Lambanyi operation permitted the testing of one aspect of the urban land policy
and strengthened land development institutions. Unfortunately the operation was plagued by land,
financial and institutional problems including illegal land occupation, weak financial capacity of both
the public and private sector, and weak institutional capacity.
(c) Support for Urban Institutions. The support for the central administration included strengthening
the technical capacity of DATU (Directorate for Regional and Urban Planning) to maintain primary
and secondary roads, manage urban services to mobilize local resources and manage activities in
urban areas, including secondary cities. The project financed studies which led to the identification
of urban plans in 22 secondary towns. Conakry's ability to mobilize resources was strengthened
through the designation of addresses for private and public entities in Conakry. Addresses for 1,500
roads, 88,000 households and 2,800 businesses were identified tirough the placement of road signs
and street numbers. In addition, the Road Maintenance Unit received technical assistance in
programming and executing works. The project provided support for small and medium private
sector firms and enabled them to compete for contracts in secondary cities and road rehabilitation.
Under the Interim Solid Waste Management Program, 30 private contractors were granted franchises
to collect and dispose of solid waste in transfer points. The overstaffed UPSU (353 employees) was
disbanded and a leaner agency (58 employees), the Solid Waste Transfer Service (Service Public de
Transfert des D&hets (SPTD)), was created with clear responsibilities for the transfer and disposal
of solid waste collected by small scale private operators. Solid waste collection increased from less
than 20 percent, under UPSU (Urban Services Technical Unit) management, to 80 percent, with
services provided by small scale private operators, in the districts of Matam, Kaloum and Dixinn.
(d) Mobilization of Local Resources. The financial situation of Conakry is precarious due to a limited
tax system, constraints linked to the "unicite de caisse" (central government appropriation of local
revenues), and weak budget. The project was successful in the (i) implementation of new budget
procedures; (ii) development of proposals to reform land and business taxes; (iii) use of addresses to
increase tax recovery; (iv) training of financial personnel in the management of public services,
mobilization of local resource and utilization of information tools; and (v) improvement of city
revenue from better organization of bus stations, market areas and the five municipalities. These
interventions have significantly impacted revenue, which has doubled over the life of the project but
still remains below its potential.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.   Three generic factors affected the project: the mobilization of the local counterpart funds,
procurement procedures, and tax on contracts. The mobilization of 'local counterpart funds has always
been difficult due to Guinea's macroeconomic conditions. In 1996, following requests from the Project and
Bank missions, the government demonstrated considerable efforts to fulfill its counterpart commitments.
Numerous delays in contract signing and execution have resulted from bureaucratic procurement
procedures. The creation of ACGP (Agence de Contr6le des Grands Projets), in 1994, imposed a measure



iv
of control for all project contracts, contributing to the bureaucratic delays. Moreover, the implementation
of the 1994 tax on contracts directly affected the 1994 and 1995 disbursements. Lastly, the introduction of
a Value Added Tax (VAT), which firms were entitled to recover on all signed contracts, increased the
administrative delays and threatened the financial health of small and medium local public work
contractors.
Bank Performance
6.   The Bank performance can be considered satisfactory while very uneven. The implementation of
the project has suffered from a high turnover of four Team Leaders during the first three years. These
changes resulted in project stagnation and low disbursement rates. Despite the low disbursement levels and
the need for rigorous supervision, the Bank prematurely launched the identification and preparation of the
Third Urban Project (PDU3).
7.   The streamlining of the project during the mid-term review has enabled the project to surpass the
initial objectives and disburse more than 98 percent of the credit. Moreover, the Bank has rapidly adopted
and responded to the priority needs identified by the Government. For example, the Interim Solid Waste
Management Program was implemented in less than four months and has developed a solid foundation for
PDU3. In addition, new work procedures were established including regular bank missions to ensure the
technical quality of project implementation, delegation of responsibility for components to local authorities
and use of the aide memoire as a project reference document.
Borrower Performance
8.   The Government's performance can be considered satisfactory while very uneven despite an
initial implementation delay of three months, constant difficulties mobilizing counterpart funds and delays
in the procurement procedures timetable. Since 1996, the Government has made an effort to improve the
situation, allowing the project to finish under good conditions. The absence of an official project unit, the
lack of a dedicated official project unit budget and the other responsibilities of the project team members
resulted in logistical difficulties. However, the presence of one project director for the duration of the
project increased project continuity. The ability of the Guinean team to mobilize during the missions is
commendable.
Project Sustainability
9.   The Project established, in the city of Conakry, a Street Addressing Unit, a Secondary Road
Maintenance Unit, and a Financial Services Unit responsible for the implementation of some of the major
project components. The units gained institutional capacity, improved their operating procedures and
introduced effective institutional reforms. The Governorate of the city of Conakry has been turning to the
Units and has supplied local counterpart funds to implement the secondary road rehabilitation program. In
addition, the primary road works have substantially improved the traffic situation in the city of Conakry.
The Interim Solid Waste Management Program has changed the look of the city of Conakry as well as its
sanitary conditions. Complete reliance on user fees collected by the private operators from the serviced
households has eliminated the need for municipal resources to finance solid waste collection. Thus,
allowing the city of Conakry to use its limited resources to finance the transfer and disposal of solid waste.
Future Operations and Major Lessons
10.  The Third Urban Project will increase the sustainability of the Second Urban Project through three



v
components: support for infrastructure and priority services in Conakry, support for secondarv cities, and
institutional strengthening.
11.    The following lessons can be drawn. It is crucial to rely on continuity and not sacrifice project
supervision while prematurely preparing a parallel project. Technical assistance needs to be carefully
monitored and based on clear terms of reference and if well targeted can support local capacity and help
develop a greater sense of responsibility and ownership from the central and local governments. Effective
and efficient solid waste collection can be provided in large cities like Conakry by small scale local private
contractors using low cost technologies. Financing of solid waste collection can be achieved through direct
collection of user charges when services are regularly provided and households are willing to pay. Up front
and appropriate compensation and clearing of customary land tenure are fundamental to any urban land
development program. Lastly, Bank and borrower commitment are paramount for project success.
Global Project Evaluation
12.  Overall, the project was satisfactory and resulted in considerable impact and improvements in the
quality of life in Conakry.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
CREDIT 2112-GUI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project name:                Second Urban Project
Credit:                      2112-GUI
Credit amount:                SDR 43 million (USD 57 million)
Vice Presidency:             Africa Region
Country:                     Guinea
Sector:                      Urban
Subsector:                   Urban Development
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1  Although predominantly rural, Guinea is experiencing rapid urbanization. The urban population
grew from 450,000 inhabitants (14 percent of total population) in 1960 to 1,650,000 (25 percent of total
population) in 1989 and is expected to reach 4,500,000 inhabitants (40 percent of total population) by the
year 2010. Due to the country's institutional and economic heritage, over 60 percent of the urban
population is concentrated in Conakry, the capital and the major industrial and economic center. The 1996
census estimated Conakry's population at 1,100,000 inhabitants (provisional results of the 1996 Population
and Housing Census conducted by the National Census Bureau in June 1997). However, this figure does
not include refugees who have emigrated from Sierra Leone and, to a lesser extent, from Liberia. As a
result of the lack of infrastructure, other cities have found it difficult to attract economic activities and have
been confined to a secondary role (Kankan, the country's second largest city, had less than 100,000
inhabitants in 1989). As far as finances are concerned, revenue in the City of Conakry (the "Governorate"
and the communes) has doubled, from GNF 1.4 billion in 1991 to over GNF 2.8 billion in 1997. This
figure is low, however, when calculated on a per capita basis, i.e., GNF 2,500, or USD 5.00, and much
remains to be done to increase funding for priority urban services.
1.2  When the Govemment of the Second Republic came to power, Guinean cities, including Conakry,
were ill-equipped to support the development of econornic activities. After more than 25 years of severe
neglect, most infrastructure, when it existed, was in a state of utter disrepair. Large urban areas lacked
basic services, and extremely poor living and working conditions affected the productivity of urban
activities. Housing had become a critical social issue. Road investment had been insignificant for the past
two decades. Public transport companies had virtually ceased to operate in Conakry. Over 60 percent of
urban households were deprived of access to safe water. Due to an almost total lack of maintenance, most
of the storm water drainage system built in pre-independence days had fallen into disrepair. Lack of



2
suitable road access deprived large portions of the urban centers of the possibility of any garbage collection
service. This lack of systematic maintenance and the erratic functioning of urban services had caused a
severe deterioration of health conditions in Conakry and Guinea's major cities; these conditions are among
the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa.
1.3 World Bank Group involvement in Guinea's urban sector began with Credit 1466-GUI, which was
approved in January 1984. This initial Project (First Urban Project - 1985/1989), financed with IDA
(World Bank) funds, sought to make up for time lost due to earlier deficiencies. The Project assisted the
Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing and the Conakry Administrative Region (now called the
"Governorate") by providing technical assistance and training opportunities, and financing construction and
restoration work. The Project thus helped to:
Improve living conditions and stimulate economic activity in the capital by rehabilitating and
building basic urban services.
• Strengthen the capacity of the Government and local authorities to effectively plan, control,
and coordinate urban growth in greater Conakry following t]he preparation, by the Directorate
for Regional and Urban Planning (DATU), of the Conakry Urban Master Plan. The Plan now
serves as a blueprint for the establishment of key infrastructure projects and other main areas
where infrastructure and related activities are carried out.
*  Establish mechanisms to finance the operating costs of Conakry's urban public services.
Initial steps have been taken in this area, specifically with regard to the patente (a tax on
professional activities).
t Improve management and operation of services responsible :for drainage network maintenance
and household garbage collection.  The Urban Services Technical Unit (UPSU) was
established for this purpose.
1.4  Conakry's physical environment improved as a result of these steps, which were also supported by
other donors. However, to make up for lost time, it was necessary to continue with these efforts upon the
completion of the First Urban Project. This was the background against which the Second Urban Project
(PDU2) was developed and implemented.
2.   OBJECTIVES OF THE SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Project Description in the Staff Appraisal Report
2.1  The Staff Appraisal Report identified the following major project objectives: (i) improve key urban
infrastructure in Conakry and selected secondary cities; (ii) support implementation of a new housing
policy which evolved during the preparation of the Project; (iii) promote the development of small
construction enterprises; and (iv) strengthen municipal governments and urban institutions country-wide.
2.2  The Priority Urban Infrastructure Upgrading Program in Conakry and selected secondary cities
consisted of works to complement, upgrade, and rehabilitate infrastructure in Guinea's key centers of
economic activity, identified in the master plan referred to above. The Program included four components:
* strengthening of the roadway network in Conakry;
rehabilitation of Conakry's drainage network;



3
•  construction of priority infrastructure, as defined by the regional development plan, in the
secondary cities; and
*  strengthening of MUH units responsible for planning and supervising these works.
2.3  The Conakry Land Development and Servicing Component was based on institutional and
financial mechanisms recommended under the new housing policy. It intended to allow the annual self-
financed creation of about 200 ha of serviced land, equivalent to 4,000 to 5,000 plots, the expected demand
in Conakry. Public and private developers were to participate and costs were to be recovered through
service fees.
2.4  The Small Construction Enterprises Component, initiated under the First Urban Project, was to
continue with management and accounting training, the creation of a technical and commercial database,
and assistance to enterprises as required.
2.5  The Strengthening of Local and Central Urban Institutions Component included three
subcomponents.
*  The subcomponent to strengthen services in the city of Conakry provided support for resource
mobilization in the city of Conakry, support to improve the management of UPSU's household
garbage collection services, and institutional, financial, and fiscal strengthening of the city and
communes of Conakry. Accordingly, it was expected that the Project would continue the work
carried out under the First Urban Project (PDU1).
*  The subcomponent to improve urban management in secondary cities implemented in the four
regional centers, focused on strengthening local institutions responsible for urban services,
improving local resource mobilization, and developing simplified local budgeting and accounting
procedures.
*  The subcomponent to strengthen MUH's project management capacity called for strengthening
DATU's capacity to plan, design, and supervise works and for bolstering MUH's capacity to take
environmental concerns into account. The subcomponent also included technical assistance to
identify and provide economic justification for priority infrastructure upgrading operations and
prepare appropriate programs to improve the immediate environment at the neighborhood level and
promote a healthy urban environment.
Project Description in the Mid-Term Review Report
2.6  The World Bank conducted a mid-term review (January 1994) to refocus the Project and make it
more effective. In November 1993, more than three years after the Project had been launched, only USD 8
million (14 percent of the total credit) had been disbursed. Some components (the support for private
construction enterprises) turned out to be inapplicable and had to be modified. The scope of the works
planned for the Project was well beyond the reach of Guinean construction companies. However, the local
private sector received project support indirectly, through components which were not specifically targeting
it (the secondary road maintenance and garbage collection programs). Other components were added or
strengthened, as in the case of the street addressing operation and the emergency solid waste management
program, neither of which were planned initially. The strengthening of urban institutions was given special
attention when ongoing technical assistance took the forrn of ad hoc technical training during each Bank
mission, with the goal of strengthening local expertise. The number of permanent technical assistants was
reduced drastically, leaving only key personnel, namely, the administrative and financial coordinator and
the engineer in charge of supervision of public works (mission de contr6le).



4
2.7  Following the mid-term review, the components - while still consistent with the Project's initial
objectives - were reformulated as indicated below:
Component A: Priority Urban Infrastructure. Five key elements were identified:
*  primary roadway construction program in Conakry;
• drainage network rehabilitation and construction program in the city of Conakry's five basins;
*  secondary roadway maintenance program for Conakry;
priority infrastructure construction and rehabilitation program for secondary cities; and
*  assistance to DATU units in project management and supervision of work financed by the Project.
Component B: Housing Policy and Development of Urban Lands
This component was refocused as follows:
* measures were taken to improve the land tenure situation in the village of Lambanyi (block 1);
•  development and provision of services to land in the remaining blocks (secondary roads) on the
basis of the development plan prepared during the Project; and
*  marketing of two developers' lots (city of Conakry and Soloprimo).
Component C: Strengthening of Urban Institutions
This component comprised the following efforts:
*  at the national level: strengthening of MUH's project management capacity and of the capacity
of DATU services responsible for designing, implementing, and supervising the various aspects of
the new urban development strategy;
* at the local level: support to strengthen the capacity of the city of Conakry and the decentralized
communes through the establishment of operational units to supervise and implement the various
programs under PDU2; and
* assistance to specialized bodies: support to Soloprimo and, in particular, the complete overhaul
of the Urban Services Technical Unit (UPSU).
In addition, in response to a special request from the Government - which had decided to accord priority to
solid waste management - an Interim Solid Waste Management Program (PTGD) was established with the
aim of rapidly improving sanitary conditions in Conakry. The objective was to distribute financial and
institutional responsibility by having inhabitants and other waste producers share the cost of collection
services and encouraging the pri.vate sector to provide such services. This emergency program, which
initially targeted the communes of Kaloum, Dixinn and Matain, is in fact serving as a bridge to the Third
Urban Project (PDU3).
Component D: Local Resource Mobilization
This component focused on three main areas:
*  improving income-generating capacity by establishing a street numbering system -an important
tool in tax management - in Conakry and implementing a program to increase revenue derived
from markets throughout the city and the communes;
* strengthening financial and fiscal services; and
* training financial and fiscal services personnel.



5
3. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.1  The objectives were achieved for all project components defined in the mid-term review and were in
fact surpassed substantially in some areas, such as services for the city of Conakry and support for solid
waste management. From less than 20 percent of solid waste collected by UPSU in November 1996, the
private operators were able to collect approximately 80 percent of the waste generated in the three districts
(Kaloum, Dixinn and Matam) by April 1998. Approximately 1,600 new jobs were created.
Component A: Priority Urban Infrastructure
Primary Road Network in Conakry
3.2  The construction of major roadways profoundly altered the structure of Conakry. The new roads
provided access to vast stretches of land, thereby opening them up for urban development. In economic
terms, many new activity centers emerged, distances were shortened, and people and goods became more
mobile. The following works were carried out:
Construction on Hamdallaye-Bellevue Boulevard along a 3 km stretch (right-of-way: 40 m plus
two double-lane roads) eased the flow of traffic and provided access to adjoining neighborhoods.
The works included 15 bus stops, two rotaries, one turnaround, five bridges, and concrete drains.
Additional works also provided included improved drainage facility protection, landscaping, city
park improvements, and masonry-reinforced embanktnents.
* Works on Leprince Road, the northern coastal road, Roads TI and T4, and the two bridges along
the northern coastal road opened up the Dabondy and Hamdallaye areas, provided a shorter north-
south linkage, and facilitated access to a vast expanse of developed land which was used for the
housing policy pilot project (Lambanyi).
•  The Leprince Road works (right-of-way: 40 m plus overhead lighting) covered a stretch of 0.5 kin,
and works on the northern coastal road covered a 1.4 km section (right-of-way: 40 m plus drainage
ditches to improve sanitation, and four hydraulic structures). Construction on Road TI affected a
2.8 km stretch (right-of-way: 30 m plus two double-lane roads and roadside lighting); works on
Road T4 involved surfacing a 1.8 km section (right-of-way: 40 m).
* Works on the southern coastal road and on road T3 helped alleviate congestion along the Niger
road, improved the environment in the Matam and Bonfi districts, and, in particular, opened up a
zone - comprising large lots in the Simbaya and Nongo districts - that was undergoing intensive
urbanization.
* Works on the southern coastal road covered a section 3 km long (right-of-way: 15-20 kIn), and
sanitation was improved with drains and two hydraulic structures. Construction on Road T3 was
along a 4.7 km stretch (right-of-way: 30 m). Sanitation was improved with the construction of
drains and hydraulic structures. Supplementary works were also carried out: embankment slopes
were reinforced, ditches were built, access roads were added, and water lines were moved.
*  Lastly, dirt roads were built in the new Lainbanyi district (right-of-way: 12-20 m).
3.3 Supplementary financing was provided (from the national budget and AFD) to improve additional
sections of Conakry's primary road network. These works were largely satisfactory, although some
construction delays did occur. These were attributable to various problems relating to (a) administrative
delays in the bidding process, (b) difficulty securing local counterpart funding, and (c) the imposition,
while the Project was under way, of a new tax regime governing contracts that was initially unclear and
caused significant delays in some cases (for example, the Hamdallaye-Bellevue Boulevard).



6
Maintenance of Secondary and Tertiary Road Networks in Conakry
3.4 The priority secondary road rehabilitation and maintenance program comprised activities varying in
scope, purpose, and periodicity. These included (a) ongoing maintenance operations to ensure that
infrastructure functioned properly (such as drain cleaning and surface patching); and (b) more extensive
periodic maintenance or rehabilitation operations.
The activities foreshadowed those to be carried out under PDU3 and focused on two programs:
• a Priority Rehabilitation Program tailored to road network service levels, including rehabilitation
and provision of access to areas selected by the City's inhabitants; and
* a Community-Based Small Project Program which carried out simple works responding to user
needs determined by the communes and financed entirely from local counterpart funds.
The works covered 53 km of roads, representing approximately 20 percent of the secondary network. The
total cost was GNF 1.7 billion, 10 percent of which were city funds, broken down as follows: dirt roads,
43 percent; paved roads, 45 percent; and structures, 12 percent. Of these works, 55 percent represented
rehabilitation works, 25 percent comprised periodic maintenance operations, and 20 percent were for
ongoing maintenance.
Conakry Drainage Network
3.5 The Governorate of the city of Conakry attached high priority to rainwater drainage, a major
problem in a city receiving four meters of rainfall annually. Financing was therefore provided for works at
several drainage basins. Overall, rehabilitation and construction operations of the drainage networks of
Conakry's five drainage basins were successfully carried out. A total of 196 m of open drains and 3,440
m of buried pipes were installed and 3,850 m of drains were rehabilitated. These works provided drainage
facilities for 227 ha of land. The construction of drains in Coronthie, of rainwater collectors and ocean
outlets in the railway station and Boulbinet areas, and of drains and outlets in the Kipe area, freed the
affected areas from the threat of flooding during the rainy season. Rehabilitation of the canal in the
University area similarly alleviated the outlet problem in the SIG Madina area.
Support to the Conakry Interim Solid Waste Management Program
3.6 A number of activities were carried out under the Interim Solid Waste Management Program:
*  strengthening of SPTD's capacity via the acquisition of new equipment (rehabilitation of
equipment from the former UPSU and acquisition of a truck emptier, a loader and other
vehicles);
*  identification, design, and construction of 13 transfer points for the solid waste before being
transferred to the landfill; and
*  construction of access roads leading to and works within the existing Miniere landfill (fencing of
the site, construction of a clay liner, drains and the treatment pond) extended the useful life of
the site for at least three years, pending the opening of the future landfill at the east end of the
city (Kagbelen).



7
Priority infrastructure works in the interior cities
3.7    The construction and rehabilitation of priority infrastructure works in the interior cities were
completed satisfactorily, although it proved somewhat difficult to get the process started. The activities
undertaken were identified and prepared by DATU with external financing during PDU1. The plans
proposed a number of priority projects.
In Kankan, construction of the central cement canal (1,800 m) resolved the flooding problem in
roadside neighborhoods (basins measuring 220 ha), particularly in the Kabada neighborhood and
the area around its school. Construction of the bypass (4.9 km long, 15 m right-of-way) linking
the Kissidougou, Kouroussa, and Siguiri roads diverted traffic from the town center, thereby
reducing congestion, accidents, and pollution.
In Labe, sanitation works improved drainage from the town's 495 ha of drainage basins and
improved sanitation in neighborhoods in the town center and the administrative center. The
stream-bed (2,500 m) running through the town center was recalibrated and cleaned, and open
paved rainwater drains were built over nearly 4,000 m.
. In Kindia, two paved two-lane urban roads were built, opening up the Banlieu and K6nende
neighborhoods (700 m and 13 m right-of-way, and 412 m and 10 m right-of-way, respectively).
T In N'Zrekore, construction of a road terminal on a 2.2 ha site provided parking for 210
vehicles. Rehabilitation of Dorota Market, on a site measuring 3,000 m2, provided 550 spaces
in sheds and tubular structures. A management model was agreed upon by both the urban
communal authorities and the Government for each of these commercial undertakings: a lease
for the road terminal, and a cost-plus contract for Dorota Market.
Component B: Housing Policy and Development of Urban Lands
3.8    This component experienced significant difficulties, which in turn caused considerable delays.
Even so, the Lambanyi operation was completed and provided an opportunity to test one element of the
housing policy. This was a pilot operation (the first of its kind in Guinea), in that developers other than the
State were invited to participate, and the State's role was limited to demarcating and providing
infrastructure for large blocks. The objective of this approach was to enable the developers to recover their
costs, which were then to be returned to the State and used to replicate the operation. The strategy was
based on the theory that private and public developers would be interested in participating. Unfortunately,
the operation was hampered by the following problems:
* Land tenure problems: Despite the fact that the Lambanyi lands had been declared State
property by decree, the site had gradually been occupied, even while the development studies
were under way. The number of illegal occupants on the site rose sharply between 1993 and
1994; another census was conducted, and the land status issue was successfully resolved.
* Financial problems: Private developers did not participate in the operation because of the
substantial risks involved and because the State was not clearly in possession of the land. In
addition, the land development fee was much too high, even for the city of Conakry, Soloprimo,
and DATU, the only three developers that expressed any interest. The method for calculating
land development fees was reconsidered during the mid-term review. The fee was initially based
on the entire developed surface area and on the investments planned. Following the review, it
was based on the actual transferable surface area and the actual investments.



8
Institutional problems: The absence of candidates to develop the land prompted DATU's
involvement in the process. The DATU thus served as both contract manager and developer of
Block 1.
It is worth noting, however, that even though this component was difficult to implement, it substantially
strengthened the institutions responsible for housing policy. The city of Conakry, DATU, and Soloprimo
received considerable training and technical assistance while they provided services and developed the land
in question.
Component C: Strengthening of Urban Institutions
3.9  This component had several objectives, namely, to:
rimprove the performance of central government entities involved in project planning, design,
implementation, supervision, and monitoring;
*  strengthen deconcentrated and decentralized institutions by providing technical and logistical
support;
improve the ability of decentralized local authorities to collect revenue; and
promote the local private sector by involving it in undertakings suited to its technical and
institutional capabilities.
This subcomponent primarily involved DATU, the Govemorate, and the communes of Conakry and was
implemented through support to the central Government, local authorities, and the private sector.
Technical assistance was excessive, problematic and scattered during the early stages of the Project. The
mid-term review clarified the project requirements and provided for less, but more precisely targeted,
technical assistance by establishing operational units, thereby making the central and local governments
more accountable. The number of permanent technical assistants was reduced drastically, leaving only key
personnel, namely, the administrative and financial coordinator and the engineer in charge of supervision of
public works (mission de controle).
Support to the Central Government: Strengthening the Capacity of DA TU
3.10   The technical assistance provided to DATU included the appoinitment of a mission to supervise the
primary infrastructure works carried out under the Project (Socite Generale pour l'Industrie from
January 1991-March 1995 and Louis Berger International from March 1995-June 1998). This support
provided contract management assistance (technical studies, preparation of bidding documents, support to
bid evaluation, and supervision of works), thereby endowing DATU with the technical capacity to
implement the Master Plan for the city of Conakry relating to primary roads and infrastructure operations
in the secondary cities.
To strengthen DATU's implementation capacity and its activities in the urban communes in the interior of
Guinea, the Project financed aerial photographs, orthophotoplans, and mapping for 22 cities, thus
providing a map base to assist in preparing development plans for these cities, for which no formal urban
documentation existed.
DATU also was entrusted with the task of restructuring the village of Lambanyi, as part of the land
development operation, and it received technical assistance regarding studies and urban land development.
Lastly, DATU benefited from training modules including:
* secondary road maintenance;



9
management of urban services for local resource mobilization; and
* development of urban lands.
Support to Local Governments
3.11   A major objective of the Second Urban Project was to provide the Govemorate of the city of
Conakry with the capacity to propose solutions and with technical management capabilities, through
support for financial services (see Component D: Resource Mobilization); and
the establishment, within the city of Conakry' s technical services, of a Street Addressing Unit, a
Road Maintenance Unit (CEV), and a Public Waste Transfer Service.
a.   The Street Addressing Unit
3.12   Street addresses must be determined in order to mobilize resources.  The process involves
pinpointing a particular location - a parcel or a dwelling - on a plot of land, in other words, determining its
address. It was difficult to find one's way in Conakry since its buildings and streets had no namnes or
numbers. This had an adverse impact on the work of the city government and on the quality and level of
economic and social relationships.
The city of Conakry corrected this situation by implementing a street addressing program in the capital.
The program, carried out by the Govemorate's Street Addressing Unit, covered about 1,500 roads (540
km) and 88,000 occupied units. Under the program, street signs were installed, doorways were numbered,
and an address -map (1/10,000 scale), a street index, and an address file with 90,000 entries were prepared.
Once the operation was in place, the Street Addressing Unit helped mobilize local resources by cooperating
with communal tax services conducting annual tax censuses. The communal tax services correlated the
addresses and occupation categories listed for the buildings with the data already on file relating to the
patente and the household tax. The Street Addressing Unit also helped the communes of Conakry count the
number of merchants in municipal markets (Bonfi, Gbessia, Matoto, Enta, Koloma, Taouyah, and
Kaporo). A register of 2,800 "partitioned sites" (such as stands and shops) and some 11,300 "tables" was
thus established.
The Street Addressing Unit also cooperated more closely with other units of the Govemorate of the city of
Conakry to improve garbage collection and organize the priority secondary road network maintenance
program.
b.   The Secondary Road Network Maintenance Unit
3.13   Efforts targeting the secondary road network were designed to increase the capacity and role of the
city and its communes to enable them to upgrade and maintain the network. The Road Maintenance Unit,
created under PDU2, had primary responsibility for planning and carrying out the required works. The
training, technical assistance, data processing tools, and logistical support provided by the Project were
designed to strengthen the Govemorate of the city of Conakry in two areas:
Planning: This element, which sought to foster communal involvement, profited from a better
understanding of user needs made possible by increased participation on the part of the
communes and by a more thorough understanding of the network (traffic counts, surveys, etc.);
and



10
Implementation: This process encouraged the city to provide financing. An initial program
sought to gain a clearer understanding of the capacities cf small and medium-size enterprises
(SMEs) and of the procurement bottlenecks between the time bids were called for and the works
were undertaken.
c.   Public Waste Transfer Service and Privatization of the Solid Waste Collection
3.14   Widespread piling of garbage and scattered huge open dumps along the streets and on open lands
were common features in the urban landscape and have created unsanitary conditions responsible for
frequent cholera outbreaks during the rainy season and hundred of deaths every year. The results of the
Interim Solid Waste Management Program were as follows:
Privatization of collection
•   SME "concessionaires" were identified and recruited to collect garbage in these zones and
transfer it to transfer stations. Privatization started in March 1997 with nine small scale
operators ("concessionaires") in three (Kaloum, Matatn and Dixxin) of the five communes of
Conakry (400,000 inhabitants out a total population of I million) and was completed in June
1998 with a total of 30 small scale contractors. These contractors were granted franchise
agreements to provide door to door collection in 34 collection districts.
*   Support was provided to SMEs (primarily management training).
Women's groups were hired to clean public places and streets.
An NGO was recruited as delegated contract manager for the program. Its responsibilities
included supervising the SMEs and conducting awareness campaigns for the actors involved
and the public.
Public provision of transfer and disposal services
The Public Waste Transfer Service (SPTD), with 58 employees, was established to replace the
overstaffed Urban Services Technical Unit (UPSU), with :353 staff members, which had been
responsible thus far for all waste management operations. SPTD then assumed responsibility
for moving waste from transfer stations to the landfill and for the operation and maintenance of
the waste management infrastructure.
Collection efficiency and employment generation
•  Private provision has raised the collection ratio from less than 20 percent to 80 percent in less
than a year.
*   Total volume collected has increased from 2,400 m3/month to 17,000 m3/month from June 1997
to April 1998.
*   Employment has skyrocketed from 27 to 1,582 people from June 1997 to April 1998.
*  A 30,400 out of 59,000 households have contracted a private operator to collect their waste.
One out of every two households contracts a private firm, and in some collection districts 80
percent of the households have their solid waste removed by the private sector.
User fees charged by the firms range from USD 1 to 5 per household per month and are
recovered directly by the operators.
The private operators have a 73 percent cost recovery rate, collecting about USD43,000 per
month.
W. t'th impact
6  No cholera outbreaks were reported during the 1998 rainy season, the first time in several years.



11
Support to the private sector
3.15   The Second Urban Project created opportunities for small and medium-size private sector
enterprises. They were given the opportunity to bid for and secure various contracts: maintenance of
secondary roads in Conakry, civil engineering works in the secondary cities covered by the Project, and the
collection of household garbage under concessions awarded by the Interim Solid Waste Management
Program. With regard to this latter element, SMEs received training in the preparation of bidding
documents and in account management.
Component D: Resource Mobilization
3.16 Conakry's financial situation had grown precarious due to low tax revenues, constraints relating to
the principle of unified revenue collection, and the lack of budgetary transparency. The objectives of the
effort to mobilize the resources of the city (Govemorate) and communes of Conakry, a key feature of the
Project's institutional component, were to:
strengthen the fiscal and financial services of local governments and their capacity to mobilize
local revenues;
reform the major local taxes, in particular, the patente;
provide city personnel with training in financial management and municipal accounting; and
organize the management of commercial revenue-generating services, including road terminals and
markets.
Following are some of the steps taken in these areas:
* Local governments implemented new budgetary and accounting guidelines allowing for the
preparation of formal budgets and administrative and operating accounts.
Reforms were proposed to the property tax and the patente.
Street addressing was used as a means to facilitate the taxpayer census and tax collection.
City financial services personnel received training at two seminars on the management of public
services, mobilization of local resources, and use of data processing tools.
City revenues were increased through improved organization of management services at the
Madina road terminal, the Madina, Niger, and Kenien markets, and in the five communes.
Measures taken included counting and assigning addresses to stands, introduction of an on-site
collection system (for example, identification of new collectors, use of badges, and revised fees).
These actions had a significant impact on revenues. Income doubled over the life of the project,
though it is still well below the level expected by the city and the communes.
Revenues of the City and Communes of Conakry (1997) (in thousands of GNF)
Revenues from     Droits de Place   Stand Rentals       Bus Station
Domaine
Kaloum                  5,617             2,765             2,432
Dixinn                  6,325             3,207              1,712
Matam                   13,364            9,816              1,979
Ratoma                 40,333            30,616             4,372             2,265
Matoto                 73,765            70,200             3,122
Total Communes         138,984           116,604           13,617             2,265
City                  381,086            64,598            12,338            58,246



12
The significant increase in City revenues, which occurred during the Second Urban Project, may be
attributed to the implementation of ordinances, adopted in 1990, governing local governments, as well as,
to measures taken during PDU2 to improve resource mobilization efforts (the street addressing system and
technical assistance to financial services).
The share of the agglomeration's public revenues allocated to the Governorate of the city of Conakry rose
from 50 percent to 74 percent, reflecting the Govemorate's expanded role in providing key urban services
to the agglomeration, namely network maintenance and, in particular, sanitation services. This increase
was generated by the more effective mobilization of the economic potential of the city, where 75 percent of
Guinea's tax potential is concentrated, and by the strengthening of its special status, through clearer
allocation of functions between the Governorate of the city of Conakry and the communes and provision of
adequate State funding.
Current Revenue of the Agglomeration, 1991-1997
1991     1994       1997       1997 GNF/         1997 Population
(in millions of GNF)        per capita
Agglomeration     1,445    2,418      2,661        2,432              1,094,075
city               693     1,430      1,897        1,734              1,094,075
5 conimunes        752      988         764          698              1,094,075
.  Kaloum          69       190         118        1,581                74,327
.  Dixinn          126      100          92          623               147,500
*  Matam           238      278         270        1,721               157,177
*  Ratoma          150      178         138          423               325,379
*  Matoto          169      242         146          374               389,692
4. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Three generic factors affected the Project:
Mobilization of the Local Counterpart Contribution
4.1    The macroecononic situation in Guinea is such that the Government has always found it difficult
to secure its counterpart contribution in a timely manner. Numerous delays were encountered in this case.
However, it is worth noting that, since 1996, following requests from the Project Office and Bank missions,
which have regularly submitted statements showing the status of commitments, the Government has made a
considerable effort to provide its counterpart contribution.
Delays in the Procurement Process
4.2    The bidding process entails such cumbersome administrative procedures that many contracts were
signed and implemented late. Discussions undertaken during project implementation on the possible
establishment of a delegated contract management agency were abandoned following establishment of the
Agence de Controle des Grands Projets (ACGP) in 1994. From the outset, ACGP sought to exercise
control over all contracts - including small ones - under the Second Urban Project, thereby complicating
the process.



13
Tax Status of Project Contracts
4.3    While the introduction of the new tax policy in 1994 - under pressure from the International
Monetary Fund - was of course legitimate, there were no clear instructions regarding taxes on contracts
still in the signature stage. This situation resulted in serious delays in the procurement process and had a
direct impact on disbursements in 1994 and 1995. In addition, the Government of Guinea introduced the
value-added tax (VAT) system. Entrepreneurs were then entitled to claim reimbursement of the VAT on
contracts entered into as part of the Project. Unfortunately, administrative hassles discouraged most of
them, with serious consequences for the financial health of small and medium-size local public works
enterprises.
5. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.1    The Bank's performance with respect to this Project may be deemed satisfactory, though very
uneven. The implementation of the Project suffered from a high turn over of Team Leaders including the
death of the initial Team Leader, who had prepared the Project, conducted the appraisal, and begun to
supervise its implementation. Two successive Task Leaders were in charge over the next eight months,
until the final Team Leader - who saw the Project through to its completion - arrived in November 1993.
Needless to say, the trauma occasioned by the sudden death of the initial Team Leader and the ensuing
period of uncertainty (three Team Leaders in eight months) were factors in the Project's stagnation, and
nearly a year was lost.
5.2   Furthermore, although the Second Urban Project was clearly encountering difficulties (the
disbursement rate in 1993 was minimal), preparatory work on the Third Urban Project had already begun
and in fact continued during the period of uncertainty mentioned above, to the detriment of the resumption
and rigorous supervision of the Second Project.
5.3    The mid-term review conducted in January 1994 marked the turning point for PDU2, offering the
Project two options: (a) prompt termination or (b) refocusing of its objectives and components. The
second option was selected. Today, it is fair to say that the Project's initial objectives were surpassed
significantly, with a disbursement rate of over 98 percent of the total credit amount.
5.4    The Bank streamlined the Project during the mid-term review to increase the projects effectiveness.
Moreover, the Bank was able to adapt and rapidly respond to priority needs identified by the Government.
For example, it took less than four months for the Interim Solid Waste Management Program to be
launched, from the time the Prime Minister called for its implementation at the 1996 Annual Meetings to
the operation's start-up early in 1997. This Program established the foundation for a sustainable program
that will continue under the Third Urban Project. The strengthening of urban institutions was given special
attention when ongoing technical assistance took the form of ad hoc technical training during each Bank
mission, the goal being to strengthen local expertise. The number of permanent technical assistants was
reduced drastically, leaving only key personnel, namely, the administrative and financial coordinator and
the engineer in charge of supervision of public works (mission de contr6le).
5.5   Following the mid-term review, a new work methodology was introduced based on (a) regular
Bank missions to provide technical support on the implementation of project components; (b) the
appointment of local officials to assume responsibility for project components; (c) use of the aide-memoire
not as a Bank document but, rather, as a joint reference document showing the status of each component,



14
notes on pending problems, and a detailed work program to be followed until the next mission. These aide-
memoires rapidly became valuable working documents providing the foundation for the work of the entire
team, since the entire team had participated in their preparation. The Bank's Resident Mission played a
key role as liaison.
6. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Government Performance
6.1    The Government's performance with respect to this Project nmay be deemed satisfactory, though
very uneven. The effectiveness date of the credit was delayed three months (from July 2, 1990 to
September 28, 1990) because of the delay by the Guinean Government in meeting the conditionalities.
Difficulties in mobilizing counterpart funding and cumbersome bidding procedures undermined the Project
throughout. However, matters improved in 1996 when the Government endeavored to rectify the situation
and enable the Project to reach a successful conclusion. The Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
(MUH) played a decisive role in steering the Project, and cooperation improved between the supervising
ministry and the Finance and Planning Ministries.
Project Office Performance
6.2    There was never a Project Office per se. Responsibility for the Project was entrusted to the
Directorate for Regional and Urban Planning within MUH. There was only one Project Director, a factor
which provided an element of continuity. The local team was strengthened in 1994 when local officials
were put in charge of each component. Logistical problems arose because, in the absence of a Project
Office, there was no operating budget, these officials received no salary, and the team consisted entirely of
personnel with other responsibilities. The financial management of the project was weak, as indicated by
the annual project audits.
Performance of the Governorate of the City of Conakry
6.3    The Governorate of the city of Conakry and communes of Conakry played major roles. Having
benefited from the establishment of the operational units and from support to its financial services, the
Governorate of the city of Conakry virtually assumed ownership of the Project. Generally speaking, it is
fair to say that the Guinean team was able to rally behind the Project, even though the level of enthusiasm
demonstrated during Bank missions tended to dissipate once the missions had departed, as the team
members focused on their multiple responsibilities.
7. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
7.1    The Project may be deemed satisfactory. Implementation difficulties and delays aside, the Project
has had a significant impact. Living conditions in Conakry have improved considerably:
The construction of major roadways profoundly altered the structure of Conakry. The new
roads provided access to large stretches of land, thereby opening them up for urban



15
development. In economic terms, many new activity centers emerged, distances were shortened,
and people and goods became more mobile.
* Health conditions improved dramatically following the establishment of the Interim Solid Waste
Management Program, thereby reducing drastically cholera epidemics.
*  By providing assistance to the Govemorate of the city of Conakry, the Project also supported
the decentralization process advocated by the Guinean Government. The Governorate of the
city of Conakry was able to rely on various project components to develop its technical and
financial capacity. The establishment of the Street Addressing Unit and the Secondary Road
Maintenance Unit is an example.
* Moreover, revenues of the Govemorate of the city of Conakry doubled as a result of the Project,
and the Govemorate of the city of Conakry has become a major actor in the management of the
city of Conakry.
. The Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing, and DATU in particular, have received
substantial aid and technical assistance and were able to profit from these contributions to
develop their urban management capacity.
*  The Land Development component is certainly the element that faced the most difficulties
during project execution. However, it should be borne in mind that this was the first time that
housing and land tenure policy had been addressed in Guinea. The issue must be addressed in
order to steer the growth of the city of Conakry in the right direction and ensure its rational
development.
- The Second Urban Project also created opportunities for small and medium-size private sector
enterprises to participate. PDU2 provided an opportunity for them to submit bids and secure
various contracts: maintenance of Conakry's secondary road network, civil engineering works in
secondary cities covered by the Project, and household garbage collection under concessions
granted to them in the capital.
8.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
8.1   The establishment in the city of Conakry of the Street Addressing Unit, the Secondary Road
Maintenance Unit, and the Financial Services Unit were definitely major accomplishments. The units were
responsible for the daily implementation of some of the major project components. The units gained
institutional capacity, improved their operating procedures and introduced effective institutional reformns.
The Governorate of the city of Conakry has been turning to the Units with increasing frequency and has
supplied local counterpart funds to implement the secondary road rehabilitation program. The services of
the Street Addressing Unit - of great utility in many areas of Conakry's economic life - are also being
tapped increasingly. In addition, the primary road works have substantially improved the traffic situation
in the city of Conakry. Given the importance of the primary road network to the city's economic
livelihood, the network should be kept in good repair on an ongoing basis.
The Interim Solid Waste Management Program, for its part, has changed the look of the city of Conakry as
well as its sanitary conditions. Complete reliance on user fees, collected by the private operators from the
serviced households, has eliminated the need for municipal resources to finance solid waste collection.
Thus, allowing the city of Conakry to use their limited resources to finance the transfer and disposal of
solid waste. There is every reason to believe that this program - now well-established, visible, and
welcomed by the population - will be continued. Final program details and refinements will be worked out
under the Third Urban Project.



16
9. FUTURE OPERATIONS
9.1  The Third Urban Project should therefore pursue the goal of sustainability by taking the municipal
dimension into account. The components of PDU3 as of the June 1998 appraisal are as follows:
(a)  Support to Priority Infrastructure and Services in Conakry
*  Solid waste management and, in particular, extension, to the capital's communes, of the system
established under PDU2; and
&  Neighborhood upgrading: the operation will be part of an ongoing locally-financed maintenance
program to be undertaken along with more substantial road, drainage, and sidewalk rehabilitation
operations, the aim being to improve linkages between neighborhoods and provide the access city
cleaning services require.
(b)  Support to Cities in the Interior
Preparation of urban and communal audits in anticipation of priority investment planning
approved by the Mayor's Office (municipal contract); and
* Execution of priority investment programs.
(c)  Institutional Support
* Continuation of operations supporting the City's operational units and its Financial Services
Unit.
10.  LESSONS LEARNED
The following lessons were learned:
10.1  It is crucial to rely on continuity and not sacrifice project supervision while prematurely preparing
a parallel project. When projects overlap, existing efforts and underlying strategy are undermined. The
Third Urban Project in its present form bears no resemblance to how it looked when it was identified
prematurely in 1993. It is now possible to draw lessons from the Second Urban Project and capitalize on
the latter's achievements. PDU3 today is continuing the work begun under PDU2.
10.2  Excessive technical assistance can be problematic and undermine local capacity building.
Technical assistance needs to be carefully monitored and based on clear terms of reference. The Project
demonstrated the value of imparting a sense of responsibility and ownership to the central and local
governments. The modus operandi, which evolved as the Project unfolded, made it possible to turn
responsibility over to the Guinean team gradually, and the team rose to the challenge.
10.3   Effective and efficient solid waste collection can be provided in large cities like Conakry by small
scale local private contractors. Financing of solid waste collection can be achieved through direct
collection user charges when services are regularly provided and households are willing to pay. The
success of the Interim Solid Waste Management Program is due to a transparent selection procedure that
fostered competition, clear and detailed franchise agreements signed by the commune mayors and approved
by the City mayor, a competitive selection process, sustained political support from the Government, the
city and the communes officials, a clear allocation of responsibilities between the private and the public
sector, a comprehensive information and communication campaign, and a training and capacity building
program for the private operators.



17
10.4   Up front and appropriate cooperation and clearing of customary land tenure are fundamental to
any urban land development program. Statutory decrees by the Central Government for publicly owned
land will hardly attract private developers who recognize the weak administrative enforcement capacity and
fear civil unrest. In order to respond to different levels of income and demand, different infrastructure
service levels are necessary.
10.5  The last lesson is the value of Bank and borrower commitment. Even in the most complex and
difficult situations, if the borrower and the Bank share the commitment to make the project work, the
project will work.



18
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:       Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12A:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs in 'Staff Weeks
Table 12B:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs in IJSD
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Missions



19
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives
Substantial    Partial     Negligible       Not
Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                           X
Sector policies                        X
Financial objectives                                 X
Institutional development              X
Physical objectives                    X
Poverty reduction                      X
Gender concerns                                      X
Other social objectives -                                     _                  X
Environmental objectives                X
Public sector management               X
Private sector development                           X
B. Project Sustainability
[                                                   Likely       Unlikely     Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Highly      Satisfactory  Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                                     x
Preparation                                                        X             X
Appraisal                                                          X
Supervision                                                        X
D. Borrower Performance
Highly      Satisfactory  Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                                                        X             X
Implementation                                                     X
Covenant compliance                                                X
Operation                                                          X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly     Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Highly
Sati                                       y .satisfactory   unsatisfactory



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit                         Purpose                   Year of approval    Status
Preceding Operations
1. First Urban Project    . strengthen capacity of central and municipal  1984    Completed in
(Cr. 1466-GUI)           government institutions in planning,                     1992
coordination, and control of urban growth in
greater Conakry,
. establish basic fnancing mechanisms of urban
services, and
* improve provision of these basic urban
services.
Future Operations
1. Third Urban Project    . support the city and municipalities of                In preparation
Conakry (solid waste collection, secondary
road maintenance, local resource
mobilization),
- support urban municipalities in the interior of
Guinea (urban and financial audits), and
- improve urban institutions.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Credit 2112-GUI
Steps in project cycle                      Date Planned                 Date Actual/latest
estimate
Identification                                                                Feb-87
Preparation                                                                   Feb-89
Appraisal                                      Oct-89                         Oct-89
Negotiations                                                                  Jan-90
Board presentation                             Apr-90                         Mar-90
Signing                                                                       Apr-90
Effectiveness                                   Jul-90                        Sep-90
Project completion                             Jun-95                         Dec-97
Credit Closing                                 Dec-95                         Jun-98



21
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR millions)          FY90      FY91      FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate        -       6.430     20.200    33.130   39.560   42.600   43.000  43.000   43.000
Actual                    -       2.144     6.649    11.572   16.187    18.669   27.056   37.648   42.346
Actual as % of estimate    100.00%   33.85%    32.92%   34.93%   40.92%   43.82%   62.92%  87.55%   98.48%
Disbursement profiles for  -      4.320     9.480    16.320   24.900   33.480   38.640   42.080   42.940
urban projects in Africa
(USD millions)          FY90      FY91      FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate        -       8.500    26.800   43.900   52.400    56.400   57.000   57.000    57.000
Actual                    -       2.877     9.285    16.144   22.735    26.556   38.704   53.340   59.650
Actual as % of estimate    100.00%   33.96%    34.65%    36.77%   43.39%   47.09%   67.90%   93.58%   104.65%
Disbursement profiles for  -      5.700     12.540   21.660   33.060   44.460   51.300   55.860   57.000
urban projects in Africa
Comparisons of the wrious disbursement curws
50.000
45.000                           .   =
40.000 =                I
35.000 - -
,  30.000 -                                 ;;/ -
_  25.000  -_ - - -  -  - -    - -   -  --                     -   -  -
E  20.000-.......... Appraisalestiiate
a   15.000-                                                                   +Actual
10.000   -                   ---
5.000                                 --                                          Dsbursen-entprofilesforurban
projects in Africa
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Time



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Planned     Actual   Difference
Priority Urban Infrastructure
Number of kilometers of surfaced 7.5 m two-lane roads built         20.0        18.4        (1.6)
Number of kilometers of surfaced 14 m four-lane roads built          2.8         6.0        3.2
with median strip and lighting                                                 3.2
without median strip and with lighting                                         2.8
Number of major structures built or rehabilitated                    4.0        12.0        8.0
Number of kilometers of 7.5 m two-lane roads rehabilitated or built  9.7         9.9        0.2
surfaced and rehabilitated                                                     1.2
built and not surfaced                                                         8.7
Number of kilometers of collector drains rehabilitated               3.1        6.825      3.725
Number of kilometers of collector drains installed                   8.9       13.576      4.676
Number of ha drained by these improvements                          181.0       731.0      550.0
Number of road terminals rehabilitated or built                                  1.0
Number of linear meters of stream-beds cleared                                 2,500.0
Number of markets rehabilitated or built                                         1.0
Number of linear meters of secondary roads rehabilitated                      36,162.0
in Kaloum                                                                   6,220.000
in Dixinn                                                                    11,550.0
in Ratoma                                                                    3,951.0
in Matam                                                                     11,780.0
in Matoto                                                                    2,661.0
Housing Policy and Development of Urban Lands
Number of plots marketed                                                        1,199
Number of ha developed                                              200.0       200.0
Strengthening of Urban Institutions
Strengthening offinancial servicesfor the city of Conakry
Number of training seminars provided to personnel                                2.0
Number of rovers purchased                                                       3.0
Number of computers purchased                                                    6.0
Equipmentfor the StreetAddressing Unit
Number of vehicles purchased                                                     2.0
Number of computers purchased                                                    5.0
Number of printers purchased                                                     3.0
Number of plotters purchased                                                     1.0
Number of CD-ROM writers purchased                                               1.0
Number of stereoscopes/geoscopes purchased                                       1.0
Number of scanners purchased                                                     1.0
Number of modems purchased                                                       1.0
Number of odometers purchased                                                   11.0
Improvement of technical capacity of UPSU/SPTD
Number of sludge suction devices purchased                           1.0         1.0



23
Planned     Actual   Difference
Number of front-end loaders purchased                               1.0         1.0
Number of fuel tanks purchased (10,000 m3)                          1.0         1.0
Number of rovers purchased                                          4.0         4.0
Number of containers purchased (8 m3)                              40.0        40.0
Number of containers purchased (20 m3)                             30.0        30.0
Number of pressure sprayers purchased                               1.0         1.0
Number of motor pumps purchased                                     1.0          -        (1.0)
Local resource mobilization
Street Addressing Unit activities
Number of roads on which dwellings were assigned addresses                    1,473.0
Number of doorways marked                                                    77,900.0
Number of dwelling units counted                                             87,700.0
Metric distance covered (km)                                                  588.01
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



24
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Solid Waste Management - General Studies
Etude comparative des filieres collecte - transit dlimination des ordures menageres de Conakry  Daniel HEU             PADEULAC
Plan national d'action pour l'environnement                                              PADEULAC                      Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
Politique d'assainissement et de gestion des ordures menageres de la ville de Conakry et mise en  PADEULAC             Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
ceuvre - a l'attention de Son Excellence le President de la Republique
Strategie d'action                                                                      |TNDP/World Bank               PADEULAC
Resume des propositions strategiques et plan d'action                                    UNDP                          PADEULAC
Preparation d'un projet exp*rimental en vue de l'amelioration de l'environnement sanitaire a Conakry   Olivier Bribosia/  PADSE (Projet d'appui au developpement
Philippe Theunissen          socio-economique)
| (Consultants Researchparc)                 _
Solid Waste Management - PME
Bandes video par les troupes artistiques de ORTG sur la sensibilisation de la population a la prd-  Africare/          World Bank
collecte des dechets et l'abonnement aux PME                                             SOGEXIM
Conakry desir s'embellir video de formation                                              E. Saad                       APPUI-PME/CECI
Depliant d'information sur le lancement du PTGD                                          Africare                      Gouvernorat
Etats des lieux des institutions de micro-credits en faveur des PME                     } Sory Kouyate and E. Saad     Gouvernorat, Project Unit
Exposition A la 2eme Foire Internationale de Conakry                                     Africare                      Africare
Gestion des dechets - manuel de formation                                                E. Saad                       APPU Gouvernoratl CECI
Programme de communication pour l'assainissement de la ville de Conakry                  SOGEXIM                       Gouvernorat, Project Unit
Programme pilote en matiere de communication                                             Africare                      Gouvernorat, Project Unit
Solid Waste Management - UPSU/SPTD
Etude d'Organisation de l'Unite de Pilotage des Services Urbains (UPSU)                  Frisa Eng. /Beco S.A.         Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing



25
Etude de factibilite et d'ingdnierie preliminaire (collecte transport et elimination de dechets solides)    Oussely Diop  GREA
Besoin de l'UPSU 1994 - Probldmatique de la gestion des ddchets a Conakry              Bessat-Trouve                Second Urban Project
UPSU - Politique d'Assainissement et de Gestion des Ordures mdnag6res                  Bessat-Trouve                Second Urban Project
Note sommaire de la restructuration de l'UPSU                                          Bessat-Trouve                Second Urban Project
Texte Juridique - Lettre de Politique d'Assainissement. Creation de Comitd de Plan. Stratdgie  Gouvernorat de Conakry  Gouvernorat de Conakry
d'Assainissement avis de Gouvernement sur la lettre de Politique d'Assainissement
Solid Waste Management - Landfill
Etude de Choix de Sites de Decharges Menageres pour Ddgager le Grand Conakry Tome I Texte et    Fresenius Consult GmbH  Ministry of Natural Resources and the
Annexes                                                                                (Consultant with GTZ)        Enviromnent
Etude de Choix de Sites de Decharges Mdnageres pour Degager le Grand Conakry Tome 2 Etudes  Fresenius Consult GmbH  Ministry of Natural Resources and the
(Consultant with GTZ)        Environment
Bank environmental requirement for a sanitary landfill                                 S. Cointreau                 World Bank
Ddcret portant reservation de sites de decharge publique                               Ministry of Urban Planning and  Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
Housing
Etude de la decharge de la Miniere et de Kagbelen                                      GTZ                          GTZ
Secondary Roads
Fiche inventaire et diagnostique                                                       Composante Entretien de la   Second Urban Project
voirie Secondaire (CEVS)
Inventaire et diagnostic (operation de terrain)                                        CEVS                         Second Urban Project
Rapport provisoire (evaluation sonmnaire des coats d'entretien)                        CEVS                         Second Urban Project
Actualisation des coffts d'entretien de rehabilitation de drainage des voiries secondaires et tertiaires de   CEVS  Second Urban Project
Conakry (programme prioritaire premiere annee)
Documents de suivi technique et financier des travaux                                  CEVS                         Second Urban Project
Carte des interventions par marchd de travaux                                          CEVS and Cellule d'adressage   Second Urban Project
Confection de quatre dossiers d'appel d'offre de travaux du programme prioritaire premiere annee  CEVS              Second Urban Project
Crit6re de classification de la voirie secondaire et tertiaire                         CEVS                         Second Urban Project
Comptage du trafic                                                                     CEVS                         Second Urban Project
Rapport avec carte des resultats de la campagne de comptage                            CEVS and Cellule d'adressage   Second Urban Project
Confection de quatre dossiers d'avenant aux marchds de travaux du programme prioritaire premiere    CEVS            Second Urban Project
anne
Carte des interventions demandees par les maires PLIC                                  CEVS and Cellule d'adressage   Second Urban Project
Carte des zones d'intervention possible de la DNER                                     CEVS and Cellule d'adressage   Second Urban Project
Carte des voics oil affleure la carapace                                               CEVS                         Second Urban Project



26
ian fancier lid aux transports publics des personnes et marchandise                  Ministere de l'Int6rieur and  Second Urban Project
CEVS
Primary Roads
Route LeprinceNVoie Express. Niveau APD contenant:                                     Societe Generale pour        First Urban Project! World Bank
Les traces en plan                                                                     l'Industrie (SGI)
Les profils en long
Les profils en travers type
Transversales HS (T5) et H6 (T6). Niveau APD contenant:                                Societ6 G6n6rale pour        Second Urban Project! World Bank
Les traces en plan                                                                    l'Industrie (SGI)
Les profils en long
Les profils en travers type
Transversales H7 (T7), H8 (T8), H9 (T9) et HIO (TIO)                                   Societ6 Generale pour        Second Urban Project! World Bank
Niveau APS, contenant:                                                                l'lndustrie (SGI)
Les plans de situation
Les profils en long
Les profils en travers type
Corniche Nord (jusqu'a la T7)                                                          Soci6te G6nerale pour        First Urban Project/ World Bank
Niveau APD contenant                                                                   l'Industrie (SGI)
Les traces en plan
Les profils en long
Les profils en travers type
Local Finance
Situation financiere de la Ville de Conakry 1991-1997 (document de synthese)           Gouvernorat de Conakry       DEF du Gouvernorat et UPPEUC
Situation financiere de la Ville de Conakry et des Communes de Conakry (document de synthese)  Gouvernorat de Conakry  DEF du Gouvernorat et UPPEUC
Budget provisoire du SPTD                                                              SPTD
Loi de finances pour 1997 et 1998                                                      TPU, TFU                     TPU, TFU
Mobilisation des ressources fiscales exercice 1997 - propositions d'actions                                         DEF du Gouvernorat et Cellule
d'adressage
Situation financiere et fiscale de la Ville et des Communes de Conakry (document de synthese)                       DEF du Gouvernorat et UPPEUC
Examen des depenses publiques                                                          Pascale Kervyn               World Bank
Adressage et fiscalite                                                                 F. Navarre                   DEF Gouvernorat
Manuel de procedures du SPTD                                                           SPTD



27
Secondary Cities
Master Plans of Kindia, Mamnou, Faranah, Macenta, Kissidougou. Reports and maps.       DATU-SGI/FED
Mission adrienne                                                                       MAPS                         FED
. Prises de vue au 1:15000 - maps.
. Fonds de plans avec courbe de niveau etablis sur support reproductible au 1:5000 et au 1:1000
. Photomosaique sur support reproductible au 1:10,000
. Index photo sur support reproductible au 1:50,000 des prises de vue
. Contact des prises de vue au 1:15,000 sur papier
Mission adrienne                                                                       MAPS                         Second Urban Project/World Bank
. Villes concernees. Les 22 villes moyennes n'ayant pas ete couvertes par la mission de 1987
. Contacte des prises de vue sur papier
. Agrandissements au 1:5000 sur papier et support reproductible
. Croquis urbains (fonds de plan) et courbes de niveau support papier et reproductible. Support
informatique
. CD Rom des principales prises de vue
Plan d'adressage au 1/10,000 de Conakry (edition finale)                               Second Urban Project         Second Urban Project
Index des voies de Conakry (edition finale)                                            Second Urban Project         Second Urban Project
Rapport de Missions d'appui et notes de syntheses                                      Groupe Huit                  Second Urban Project
Vulgarisation de l'adressage. Programme d'action                                       Cellule d'adressage          Second Urban Project
Propositions d'Actions: Ressources fiscales 1997                                       Cellule d'adressage          Second Urban Project
Service fmanciere Conakry
Recensement gen6ral de la population et de l'habitation de 1996 (resultats provisoiresjuin 1997)  Bureau National du RGPH  FNUAP
Completion Documents - General
Second Urban Project - Information Booklet                                             Ministry of Urban Planning and  Ministry of Urban Planning and
Housing/World Bank           Housing/World Bank
Gu _e La PaoedsAtoi6vdo                                                            Ministry of Urban Planning and  Ministry of Urban Planning and
Housing/World Bank           Housing/World Bank
Guinee: La Parole aux Habitants (video)                                                Ministry of Urban Planning and  Ministry of Urban Planning and
Housing/World Bank           Housing/World Bank
Adressage (video)                                                                      Ministry of Urban Planning and  Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing/
I Housing/World Bank          World Bank



28
Table 8A: Project Costs (in USD millions)
Project component                        Estimate       Revised         Actual       Difference
1. Priority Infrastructure Program
1.1 Works
Conakry                              34.70          59.70          58.78          -0.92
Secondary Cities                      4.50           7.88           7.61          -0.27
Sub Total of Works                   39.20          67.58          66.39          -1.19
1.2 Studies and Supervision                4.55           5.80           6.62           0.82
1.3 Right of ways and expropriations       3.70           3.70           5.00           1.30
Sub Total                             47.45          77.08          78.01           0.93
2. Housing Policy and Development of Urban Lands
Land tenure - Lambanyi                 1.50           2.06           2.06           0.00
Technical assistance to Soloprimo and  1.30           1.40           1.40           0.00
Conakry
Sub Total                              2.80           3.46           3.46           0.00
3. Strengthening of Urban Institutions      1.00          0.00                          0.00
4. Institutional Development
DATU/MUH                               4.80          6.15            5.14          -1.01
Conakry                                3.70          5.10            5.01          -0.09
SPTD (ex-UPSU)                         2.00          3.69            4.04          0.35
Sub Total                              10.50         14.94           14.19          -0.75
Total base cost                           61.75          95.48          95.66           0.18
Physical contingencies                     7.02
Cost contingencies                        12.93
Total project cost                        81.70          95.48          95.66           0.18
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                        Appraisal                  Actual
USD millions            USD millions
Govemment                                       8.20                     10.01
IDA                                            57.00                    59.65
UNDP                                            1.00                      1.40
AFD (ex CCCE)*                                 14.00                    23.10
FAC*                                            1.50                      1.50
Total                                          81.70                    95.66
* Parallel financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



29
Table 10: Status of Covenants
Section    Type Description of covenant                              Fulfillment       Comments
2.02 (b)    I  Open, and maintain in dollars, two special accounts in a  Yes
commercial bank or the central bank
3.01 (a)    10  Carry out Parts A, B, C, D (c) and D (d) of the Project through  Yes
MUH, Part D (a) through the City of Conakry, and Part D (b)
through UPSU
3.01 (b)    10  Provide, as needed, the funds, facilities, sites, services, and  Yes    With several delays
other resources required for the Project
3.02 (a)    10  Submit to the Association's prior approval any change in the  Yes
priority infrastructure upgrading works referred to under Part A
(c) (i) to (iv) of the Project
3.02 (b)    10  Submit to the Association's prior approval any additional  Yes
Secondary City with a proposal for priority infrastructure
upgrading works to be carried out under part A (c) (v) of the
Project, and for their management under Part D (c) of the
Project
3.03      1,10 Open and maintain a land servicing revolving fund and cause  Yes
to be deposited into said fund the land servicing fees collected
from developers and/or beneficiaries of serviced lots
3.04      5,12 Maintain a Urban Land Servicing Steering Committee        Yes
3.05       10  Prepare a plan and an implementation program for a land   Yes
servicing operation covering an area of about 200 ha in the
City of Conakry, as defined in the Credit Agreement
3.06 (a)    10 Not later than October 1, 1990, make arrangements through  No    Only the water supply
MUH with water, power, and telephone utility companies to        system was completed
develop the sites covered by the Project                         (1995)
3.06 (b)   5,12 Not later than October 1, 1990, make arrangements through  Yes
MUH with the City of Conakry for the management of road
and drainage works
3.06 (c)    5  Not later than October 1, 1990, establish through MUH a   Yes
technical working group within DATU responsible for
coordination and supervision of said works
3.07 (a)   5,12 Publish, not later than April 1, 1991:                   Yes
(i) a list of approved block developers
(ii) basic land development regulations applicable to developers
and plot occupants
3.07 (b)    12  Enter into agreements with each approved developer setting  Yes
forth said developer's rights and obligations
3.08 (a)    5  Maintain UPSU under its current administrative and financial  No    UPSU replaced by SPTD,
structure                                                        EPA, established in 1997



30
3.08 (b)     5   Maintain a project director within MUH assisted by an           Yes
administrative and financial coordinator
3.09         5  Not later than October 1 each year, review the City of           Yes
Conakry's draft budget and UPSU's funding arrangements
3.11         7   Carry out the compensation and resettlement of households       Yes
affected under Part A of the Project
3.12         12  Take all necessary measures for SOLOPRIMO to be                 No
incorporated as a commercial company before April 1, 199!1.
4.01 (a)    1,5,9 Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect the          Yes
operations, resources, and expenditures of the Project
4.01 (b) (i)  1,9  Have the records and accounts of the Project (including those  Yes
for the Special Accounts and the revolving fund) audited for
each fiscal year
4.01 (b)    1,9  Furnish to the Association not later than six months after the  Yes
(ii) and         end of each fiscal year a certified copy of the report of such
(iii)            audit and other information concerning project accounts
4.01 (c) (i)   5   Maintain records and accounts reflecting expenditures with    Yes
respect to which withdrawals were requested from the Credit
Account
4.01 (c)    1,9  Retain, until at least one year after the Association has received  Yes
(ii)             the audit all records evidencing such expenditures
4.01 (c)    1,9  Enable the Association's representatives to examine such        Yes
(iii)            records
4.01 (c)     9   Include in the annual audit such accounts and records and a     Yes
(iv)             separate opinion by the auditors on management procedures
followed
Legend - Covenant types
I Accounts/audits
2 Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7   Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral institutional action
13 Other



31
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable
Table 12A: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs in Staff Weeks
FY            LENP    LENA    LENN    SPN                       ICR   TOTAL
1987              1.1                                                         1.1
1988              8.6                                                         8.6
1989            31.6                                                         31.6
1990              8.9       34.3           13         9.0                    65.2
1991                                                 16.2                     16.2
1992                                                  8.9                     8.9
1993                                                 12.2                    12.2
1994                                                29.3                     29.3
1995                                                28.6                     28.6
1996                                                 6.9                      6.9
1997                                                28.9                     28.9
1998                                                 10.1        5.0         15.1
1999*                                                 1.0         2.4          3.4
TOTAL             50.2        34.3           13      151.1         7.4        256.0
* Figures as of 12/30/98
Table 12B: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs in USD (thousands)
F'Y           LENP        LENA         LENN         SPN         ICR      TOTAL
1987              2.7                                                          2.7
1988             18.1                                                         18.1
1989            62.9                                                         62.9
1990            25.1          86           36       25.2                    172.2
1991                                                44.4                     44.4
1992                                                27.3                     27.3
1993                                                35.2                     35.2
1994                                                86.5                     86.5
1995                                                80.1                      80.1
1996                                                28.8                     28.8
1997                                                92.5                     92.5
1998                                                34.2         17.6        51.8
1999*                                                 2.8         6.5          9.2
TOTAL            108.8          86           36        457        24.1        711.6
Totals may not add up due to rounding of amounts
* Figures as of 12/30/98



32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project  Month/year Number of Days in the   Specialized        Performance Rating
Cycle                    persons      field     staff/skills
represented
Implementation  Development
status       Objectives
Identification       Feb-87
Preparation          Mar-88        1
Preparation          May-88        1
Preparation          Jun-88        3
Preparation          Nov-88        2
Preparation          Feb-89        4
Appraisal            Oct-89        5          21        UUUFE              I              I
Supervision I        May-90        2          6           UU               I             I
Supervision 2        Sep-90        4          10         IUuu              I             I
Supervision 3        Jan-91        4          10         IIUU              I              I
Supervision 4        Jun-91        4          9          IIUD              I             1
Supervision 5        Oct-91        2          7            IU              I             I
Supervision 6        Feb-92        3          6           IIU              2             1
Supervision 7        Jun-92        2          10          UW               2             2
Supervision 8        Oct-92        2          11          IU               2             1
Supervision 9        Sep-93        4         22           IIEF             2             1
Mid Tern Review       Jan-94       5          18          UIIII            3             2
Supervision 10        Jul-94       3          15         EUU               S             S
Supervision 11       Nov-94        3          13          EUE              S             S
Supervision 12       Mar-95        3          9          UUU               S             S
Supervision 13        Jul-95       4          *          FFUU              *             *
Supervision 14       Nov-95        4          5          UFFI              S             S
Supervision 15       May-96        6          11         UUIIII            S             S
Supervision 16       Nov-96        2          7           UU               S             S
Supervision 17        Jul-97       2          6            II              S             S
Supervision 18       Nov-97        5          16         IIIUU             S             S
Supervision 19       Mar-98        1          4            U               S             S
Completion           Jun-98        2          10          UF               S             S
Specialization     I: Engineer, E: Economist, F: Financial Analyst, D: Division Chief, U: Urban Specialist,
Legend:            L: Lawyer
* 590 not available



33
APPENDIX A
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
MISSION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
Du 14 au 26 JUIN 1998
MISSION DE SUPERVISION DU DEUXIEME PROJET URBAIN
CREDIT GUI -2112
INTRODUCT_ON
1. L., pr6sent aide-m6moire fait suite i une mission effectu6e i Conakry du 14 au 26 Juin 1998 par Mme C.
Favacque-Vitkovic (AFTL12) charge du Projet Urbain, M. D. Webber (sp6cialiste des dicaissements) at Mme
Camacho.
2. La mission avait pour objectif l'6valuation du Troisibme Projet Urbain et Is supervision du Second Projet Urbain
A quelques semaines de sa date de cl6ture pr6vue.
3. Au. cours de son s6jour en Guinee, la mission a ele recue en audience par son Excellence le Ministre de
l'urbanisme et de I'Habitat, Dr AHfa Ousmane DLALLO, et par Mr. M'Bemba BANGOURA, Gouvemeur de a Ville de
Conakry.
Composante A: Infrastructures Urbaines Prioritaires
VILLE DE CONAKRY
L'onsemble des travaux dinfrastucturs primaires est termine. Lannexe I r6capitule les marches qui ont 6e6
ex6cut6s.
Amnnagement de la gare routfbre Harmdallaye:
L Banque a finanoc I'6tude de faisabilite economique qui a 6te r6alisee par Is Bureau CARIG . Le montant des
ravaux pour la gare routiere est estim6 A GNF 1.980.000.000. Cos travaux ne owt pas r6alisables danm l cadre
doe 1'extnion du Projet au 30 Juin 1996.
Niianmoins, Is Banque a acoepte de financer les 6tudes d'avan pjt sommaire (APS). Suite A is non objection
de la Banque du 26 Mars 1998 un contrat a 6e6 sign6 avec CARIG sur l base de son devis pour un montant HT
de GNF 56.760.987. Le d6lai dexAcuion a Mt6 fix a 45 jours. Un exemplaire da lAPS r6alis6 par le bureau
CARIG a 616 transmis A ia mission.
VILLES SECONDARES
L'ensemble des travaux d'irastrcturas prmaires et termin. L'annexe 2 r6capitulb les march6s qui ont 6e6
sx6cuts.
SITUATION DES DECOMPTES IMPAYES SUR LE BND
La siution des impay6s s'61&ve au 25 Juin 1998 a GNF 591.692.468. Voir d6tail * I'Annexe 3. La mission
recommande de r6gulariser oette situation dans les plus brefa dAbiss. Le pasrent de ces d6comptes consfitkra
une condition de n6gociation du PDU3.
ENTRETIEN DE LA VOIRIE SECONDAIRE
Etat d'avancemnt . Voir Annexe 3b
COMPOSANTE C  RENFORCEMENT DES INSTITUTIONS URBAINES
SERVICE PUBUC DE TRANSFERT DES DECHETS
V         "M du MU



L INFRASTRUCTURES DE TRANSFERT
1.1 Situation des points do regroupement. Voir Annexe 4.
La mission n'a pas d'objection a la signature avec les PME (TRANSCEQ-BEI,, E.l.C. & M.A.B.C) d'un Avenant
relaif au surcoOt consicutif A l'augmentation du prix de la tonne de ciment. Le montart de ces avenants est do
respectivement:
* GNF 5.304.000 pour Is PME TRANSCEQ-BEI et
* GNF 5250.000 pour la PME E.l.C & MAB.C.
La mission souligne quo leas pr6judices financiers subis par ces deux PME, suits aux delocalisations qui leur ont
te imposees, irombent A rEtat Le monta  des prejudices s'616vent respectivemnet a GNF 27214.700 pour
TRANSCO-BEI et GNF 17.875.500 pour E.I.C.& M.A.B.C. Lindemnisation de ces pr6judices par I'Etat constituera
une condition de ngodiation du PDU3.
1.2 SItuation de f'am6nagernent sommaire de la d6charge. Voir Annexe 5.
2. ACQUISMON DE BAC A ORDURES DE 20m3
La Banque a donnA so non objection, le 26 mars 1998, A Is signature d'un contrat de foumriure de 30 bacs a
ordues de 20 m3 pour un monant H.T. de GNF 180.000.000 avec le socihth FRIEDLANDER. Le marche a ete
signh le 31 mars 1998. L'acompte de 30% du march6 a 6t6 paye en Mai 1998. La livraison interviendra fin juin
1998.
ADRESSAGE
A Etat d'avancement
a) Etat d'avancement:
Numhrotaton des entrg et saisie Infomatique:
La campagne de numerotation e9t terminhe.
Panneautage des rues:
h0 stock do 150 poteaux et 800 plaques deStinhs a porter les noms de rues A baptiser est pret et la pose des
panneaux aux difaMrmnts carrefours prendra fin la douxibme quireame de Juin 1998.
Campagne de sensibllsation et de vulgarlston:
La cellule travaille sur ls elements de l'exposition su le PDU2 dont Is date n'est pas encore fix6e.
b)- Anolications:
Participation au DAO des PME de collectes des ordures (cartographie).
Assistance aux services urbains et concessionnaires d'eau et d'cerbicitU.
Coordination avec la DATU en ce qui conense Is catgraphie (Photos a6riennes, alTtrie pnimetrie).
cl- Plan d'action Adressape
Campagne de vulgaisatson:
Preparation et ex6cution Exposition PDU2
Plaquette
La version d6finitive a 60t arret6e au cotes de Is mission. L'impression est pr6vwe pour Is clture du ProjteL
Aspect financiers et admnlniubi du Projet
Vwdnu du ME



1) Compte sp6cial oFund A:
La Direction du Prjet a proc6d6 a un remboursement de USD 425.000. Le solde i rembourser du Compte
Speial est done de USD 75.000. Neanmoins, la mission a pris note de Ia necessite de laisser une avance en
compte special au moins 6gale i USD 75.000, ceoi pour faire face aux depenses jusqu'a la date de clOture du
pnret qui esO fix6e au 30 Juin 1998.
2) Audit dft comptes des exercices 1997 et 1998.
Los contrats d'audit (exercicas 97 et 98) avec le Cabinet d'audit FFA Emst & Young ont 6t6 sign6s le 26 Mars
1998. Los rapports d'audit de I'xarcice 97 seront soumis a Is Banque fin juillet 1998 et coux do 1exercico 98,
courant Septembre 1998.
La mission attire Irattention de la Direction du Projet pour quo ces d6lais soient respectes. Le respect de ces
delis constituera &galement une des conditions de n6gociation du PDU3.
3) Analyse financiere - Programmo d'utilisation du Cr6dlt 2112.GUI apres r6allocation du 30106197 (CF.
Annexe pour d6tail).
Situaton au 1510698 (estimation)
(Las montants exprirns sont en millions de DTS)
Rubrique                lItul6                  Formule          Montant
______    ______________________      de Calcul
I               Montant du cr6dlt                          43.000.000
2         Total prvidsons d'engagement                     42.267.000
3        Total engagemnt par signature                     41.983.000
4          Montant d6calssl au 15 0619                    41.392.000
5           Pourcentage d6calssements        (4)R1)             96,26
6             Pourcnhtge pr6vhsons           (2)11)             98,30
d'ongagemenMontant du Cr6dIt
7          Poumentage engagement par         (3)1()             97,63
sIgnuralMontant du Cr6dlt
8           Pouraentage dicaluements         (4)1(3)            9S.69
_Ingagenmnts par signatm
an douJIUM



ANNEXES
1.   Im*astncte de Conaky.
2.    Infrasucures Villas secondaires
3.    Siuation des d6comptes impay6s sur le BND
ab    Enbutiw de la voire asonduire
4.    SPTD: situion des marchhs des points de regmupernnt
5.    SPT: siuation de rsam nagement sommaire de Ia dhd,arge de la minibre
6.    Programme d'utilisation du Cr6dit au 15MO6M98
_fgu2UiOUW



LISTE DES AMPLIATIONS
PRUMATURE
S.E. Sidya TOURE, Premier Ministre
MINISTERE DE L'URBANISME ET DE LHABITAT
S.E. Dr. Alfa Oumane DIALLO, Ministre
M. Kerfalla TOURE, Secr6taire G6neral
M. Themo Hassan SOW, Chef de Cabinet
M. Sory KOUYATE, Conseiller Charg6 de Mission
M. Bandian KOUROUMA, Directeur du PDU2
M. Amadou DIALLO, Directeur National DATU
M. Jean TOLNO, Directeur National Adjoint
Mime Fofana Fatoumata BARRY, Coordonnateur Projet Habitat
M. Jacques GRENETIER, Coordonnateur Administratff et Financier, PDU2
M. Mamadouba CONTE, Comptable 26ne Projet Urbain
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES
S.E. Kassory FOFANA, Ministre
M. le Directeur National des March6s Publics et du Portefeuille de l'Etat
M. le Directeur National des Impbts
MINISTERE DES AFFAIRES ETRANGERES
S.E. Lamine CAMARA, Ministre
MINISTERE DE LA SECURITE
S.E Goueyssi CONDE, Ministre
MINISTERE DE L'ADMINISTRA'ION TERRITORIuLE ET
DE LA DECENTRALISATION
S.E. Zalnoul Abidine SANOUSSI, Minisbte
MINISTERE DE L'EQUIPEMENT (Trmnport, TP at Environment)
S.E. Cellou DIALLO, Ministre
M. Moussagbe CAMARA, DNER
VILLE DE CONAKRY
S.E. M'Bernba BANGOURA, GCuxNneur
M. Elhadj Shkou DIABY, Dircteur de Cabinet
M. Moustapha SYLLA, Diecteur R6gional - Urbanisme, Habitat, TP
M. Mamadou Dian DIALLO, Chef Cellule Adressage
M. Fode TOURE, Chef Cellule Entretien
M. Saliou Dian DIALLO, Direcbeur Economie et Finances
M. Almamy S6kou SANKHON, Maire de Kaloum
Mne. KABA Rougy BARRY, Maire de Matan
El. Mamadou N'DIAYE, Maire de Dbdnn
M. Mohamed CAMARA, Maire de Matoto
M. Mamadou BARRY, Maire de Ratoma
V b,iu du 2LIU



SPTD
M. Modi Mahi BARRY, Directeur G&n6ral SPTD
CFD
M. Ie Representant Resident
FONDS MONETAIRE INTERNATONAL
M. Ie Representant Resident
UNICEF
M. le Reprisentant Resident
BAD
M. Ie Representant R6sident
CEE-FED
M. Ie Repr6sentant Resident
COOPERATION FRANCAISE (FAC)
Mme le Conseiller
USAID
M. Ie Repr6sentant r6sident
Amnbassade d'Allemagne (GrZ)
M. L'Ambassadeur
Ambassade du Japan
M. L'Ambassadeur
Ambasade du Canada
M. L'Ambassadeur
Vwsi du 2JUl1



TRAVAUX REAUES DANS LE CADR  DU SECOND PROJET URSAN                           Comb. b.24 Julnl" I
CREDIT IDA 2112 -UI
COMPOSANTE A: INFTRUCTURES URBAINES PIORTAIURES
ANNEXE 1: VUE DCONAMY
(Los monbnts sont exprhnss on France Guindns Ho Taxes)
no               0ID                                 ENREPRISE             Db         MONrANt DU         COWFNAL ._ANCEM                                   Date de      Montbnt
dAppdI                             slinbtut                           DoV                                          Itc.pllon
d'Offru      ADJUDICATRE          do Mwach        MARCH!             MARC1H!       ___        _                     pvNDirm    Ipsyt lIMNO
IYcompde            IDA            END-
ivislon despduI                                                 mu 24M5h98
d6nnitivo
I    AasInIsun   n.Ddnp ds           11111W    nSA                       171061 _A1r6M05m_
quvSsaWo (Cotovftb Tomb
owe, UnIvehn    KId)                      ______
Marhi de ban                                               171/0691      1.797.88                           1.61S.025.288     179.780.687
Avennt nI I fvon                                           2110193          80.011.350                        26.670.450       53.340.900
dee ptk)
I    TOTAL                                                                             1.077.S17.225      1.07717.225   1.844.699.736      233.12.467
2    Rfg Le o 11-14 Nod,             16I09l 1   ATADI
OuVwae d'at                                                    .                                                    .         ._                            _
Mac  de b_a                                               01107112       5956.039.062                                                       29s03M6
Avenan ,f2                                                 13111195      2 156.320.885                                                      29103MI9
Avenm  n 3                                                 13111195       2562229.324                                                       28106197
2    TOTAL                              -6.36659.21                                                       9.242.972.626   8.169.202.S14    1.073.770.012
3     d U_en   m          e_         1511193   ANDRADE OUTIERREZ
Momh& de ban                                               2210694       6.762.306.053
Tnrvwc onfotafa                                           1t10196         61i926.053
S    TOTAL                                                                             9.395.232.106     10.518.51295    .359.662.051     1.168.929.244    10112197*     52.423.4
4    Rwebm.t T4 Nod et               3011094   ENCO-6                    17111195      1.022.462.568      1.106.270.747    993.979.352      112.291.395    121129  5-.11 2.3i
ConeftaoConC      o NRd
S    AalnlenU' ompN1m. de
65. Lot A ITombo. Unveat)       19108194   CPSEA                   2095             03.293.828          93.563.390     83.60.360         9.983.030    10108197         811.5,



n   TllRE            Das          EIdTREPRIE            Dds        MONTANT DU        COUT FINAL             FINDJCEMENT              Dab de       Montant
d@~~~~~~~~~~~pol ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     D b n  U                                   RpHon
Offm         ADJUDICATARE         do Mar dI MARCHE                 MARCH!                                       prol R sto     pay BND
lYcompila          IDA            END         poIot        malfN
iwibln de prIha       Ie)                                    *u 24106/3
,                                          ,               _                              _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~______  dlfnItIve
5b. Lot 1 (ftpG, Gore)        13A14   COGEI                      1210918          92.242.600       104.471.839     93.347.050      1t.124.589   IWOm/&97        906.132
0    TOTAL                                                                            176.63.428        18.039.029    170.W7.410       21.067.619                  1.717.652
3    Constuctln de b Corob sud   1010196   ENCO-5
Mardh de bne                                            2VOWS97        3.7.712.316
Avenant tn1 (We  a Ib                                    24109197        511.907.648
dlch rge)                        _  _  _  _  _  _  _
*    TOTAL                                                                           3.49A.619.964     4.04.661.131   3.8.923.242      403.737.949    09/O11       OT.378.467
7    ConrbucIon Tows,al 73          1313    ASTALDI
_  . ,  s.'   r             .                        27101197       4.450.239.672
Trewupl.                                                                 405.262.336
7    TOTAL                                                                           4.66.602.008      6377.6.2WJ   4.84.239.766        30.628.422   o011137      209.591.76e
*    SOne roulkseSt nwarcdo         13/113
$a. Eude osabnn Icomlkue                CARIl                    30/111M9          9940.00            .940.000      9.940.000                   281021
.. vba. .z-                                                     ,-                                            ,_                                              ._
Sb. Loeis tpagphlqus                    8.SANKHON                13t06r97          2.6o4.490         2.604.490      2.e04.490                   2802s97
o. Etudo APS                             CARMl                   14M04196         6.760.967         s6.7r0.s87     56.760.967                   26M6198
a                                    -          q:,.....!-                         .._  .       
*    TOTAL                                                                             63.605.47         es.s05.477     69.60w.477
_.--                 n                   -w                                                         _ _                               _ __
9    Am.n.ern .. de
orbdlne
9a. Dspeo zwone & uibwe de              ASTALDI                  30106U92        135.861.520                                                    29s03/ts
Lnmber (AveOnE nt munmrd
ASTALDI - Rte Leprince)
_ - .. _. . l~ -                                                 
lb. VobIe.ondoaklde          1i61O2    ASTALDI                   03/11192        939.114.278                                                     2e06e/7
ft Vobl eewondaWt  de                    ASTALDI                 101o619         490.723.274                                                     26108/97
La.,n tibe   (Avenant n1l)               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _ _ _
-                                                                                                                                                      -                -  ..
3    TOTAL      *                               ,,r.W--.072                                            1.724A.1.066   1.724.t25.0ee _t ._24.t2S.
2



-                                  -                 -    -S-     -
nlb             ItWRE                 Sets         ENTREPRISE           Dteb       MONTANT DU        COUt FINAL              FINANCEMENT             Daft d       Montbnt
d'Appdl                           loneturo                           DU                                        Rceepton
d'Offm       ADJUDICATAIRE        dtU MwC        MARCHE            MARCHE                                       provlmolro   lmpayg4 Sn
( Co..pvIa         IDA            IIND
ivhlon des pti                         D)                    au 24I06h9t
SOUS-TOATAL                                                                   31.076.964.119    34.161.J36.7T4   30.622.270.63    3.539.566.128             356.224.ie
INFRASTRUCItRES                                                                                                           6
no                TRE                 Dab          ENTREPRISE           Dab        MONTANT DU           COUT                 FINANCEMENT             Date d       Montant
d'Appl                            signature                     PROVS1OIRE                                      R6ceptlon     ImpayG
d'Olb r      ADJUDICATAIRE       du MmeIi        MARCH!          au 31105113                                    provlsoir    Gouvernot,
DU             IDA        Gouvemaot dn                 de Conakt1
MARCHE                          Conakry                   mu 22106111
10   Etefltn de b wels Iecondalre
Ka=mM Dbdrnn                  1909   ADRAME (2PU 8)                         __ -
Madrc de bae                                             20f1ii9        356.7s8.952
Avenrnt n1                                               2710M28         50.352.310
TOOtAL 2PU 88                                                                   407.120.262        392.094.84    34s.274.401      42.810.463                  2630.3'
Kaoumm, DOnn, Mas  at          109S     SOGRO (2PU 89)
Matoto
MerdA de bsee                                            2011r16        274.303.675
Avennt W1                                                27102196        71.29.866
TOTAL 2PU 80                                                                    346.53.541         313.443.750    280.448.033      32.995.11                   3.5005
Ratomn, Matoto                21110196   EIS.GENO Afk (2PU 90)
Ma_h do bas                                              3010617        435.037.710
Avenmnt n1,                                              2710uS8         40.584.500
TOTAL 2tU 00                                                                    478.622.210        346.202.474    301.568.064      48.674.410
a                       -                                                                                                   -
Matem                         21110CU6   EIS-GENO Afi k(2PU9 9)
March de bas                                             3010696        354.244.000
Avenant nre                                              27rnuS8        104.485435
TOTAL 2PU 91                                                                     458.729.435       333.319.942    295.614.88       37.505.054
t0   Totel entndf en voids a dah_r_ _c_re_,                    __                    1.687.076.446     1.387.111.030   1.227.125.392 j  15.985.638   , _.13_2



nITRE              Daft         ENTREPRIE           Dab       MONTANT DU       COUT FINA            FWNCEMENT              Daib de     Montbnt
trApp.I                        algnatne                         Dlu                                     RicOpffon
dOfras      ADJUDICATAMRE      do Md ii      MARCHE           MARCHE                                .   provbo    Impayi BN
tY comipis        MA-N
.iWbn  des prdt       ID                                 au 241061
_dfinlfve
TOTAL OENERAL                                                             2.764.0.617     366.54.7."4   31M.3".028   3.S.t.T66                  362.355.4
ICNRAIRUY      E
_C. _ .Y                                                                  __    .___



Colwyt, b 24 Judn is"
TRAVAUX  uES Dm Lu CAD DU SECOND PROJET UUN
CREDT IDA 2112 - GM
COMPOSANTE A: INFMSTRUCTURES URBAINEB PORHtAIRES
ANNEXE 2: VILLES 8ECONDAIRES
(Lee montbntm sent expvims an Fano,s OuIsne Hos Taxes)
nWRE                 Di            IREPRISE            Deb        MONTA    U       COUT FINAL              FiNANCEMENT               Dota de      Montbni
dAppd                             signatur                          DU                                          R6ceptHon
dOff0        ADJUDICATAIRE       du MII MARCHI!                   MARCHE                                        provlsolre   Impay& BND
(Ycompd.e          1D-N
_  imlon dm6 pdxs                                   mI)        au 24Mt108
1As. mnlasmew euto oCadl    16"1111     IOYAT                    O0561          718.615. 02       718.6225"0      6448.0.1         71.32M       15604S3*
_      ( 0_12PU__)
lb. Tw oompl. Canal contld
ameMa    is -lumWu            1110I156   KHAYAT                  25156          TM1.o31           823.4AK          40.681.M04      62.12.564    221071o7
-uVm RIO de  dOugOu.Rt
do Kouroum  (2PU 0) 
063)_                   __                   _  __                   _    __                                                __    _                    _     _
la Volh dnmN_tNold (2PU       O11212    KHYAT                     04v             TA.14           784.18.0U       T01.223.000      30.038.904   24MOs9
053)
Id. Conoumiwta Nerd
TM          9u  e tA ...      13O6N    IOYAT                    O071097         M.111.160          .T73.120       764.013.06       63.8W.312    24107157
benge  deo KoumumemRe de
SOM 2PU 109).
_    I u d( P   109)  i                     _ _   __ _ _ _ _ __                 _ _ _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _ _      _ _  _  _     _  _  _ _  _
to  mlla A ement at dbllunag
botoen   Rtb de Kjmm 4oR                 KHlRAYAT                0411ii9t       36.367.0          434.4m.eo4    350.2.062          43.574.542    07101198     43.574.642
deKouum  -(2PU 130)-
Avenari n1 mu mwmp (2PU 099)
1L Conbtumntb Nord bumg
boe Rio de dokoureusst de                KHYAT                   041111/97      424.615009        4641.1.623      417.063.046      46.36m.579    ol10159      46.518.575
Eguhl (2PIJ 131).AUSftn 1
,umsrd{ 6 2PU 109)
TOTAL vilb do Kinksn                                                          3.70.136l72        4.01.246.069    3.652.071.403    408.274.6e8                 90.t88.117
2    Low
2 WSISsmoi (moe h.d. 24112.2
-  bas)a-



nl               TIIIE                0.5           EItUREPRI!            Date     -MIIONTANT DU      cour flNAL              FWAN 1MT                  Dated.       Montant
d'Appet                           slgnature                          Du                                          HosPulon
dOffs        ADJICATAIRE          do Maueh       MARC H!           MARCHE                                         prYoots_lre   Impoy& OND
(V compilNe                         W
iviblon du pkis )                                              mu 2408"9
__ __ _ __ _ __ _ ._ _              ___   _  _ _  _ _  _                    __              _  _ _  _ _  .  _ _  _  _ _                     d llnlt ve
Lot 3                            PENMEC                   07123         159.541.80        16.335.0S      1t51.160.90       17.54.1U 4    13(12m5
Lo__t   1,CDE4,                  C                        0711213        748.246.222       761.002.931     699.874.585      81.128.246   13t1t2gJ5
Lots e t 8                       ADRAME O6nis CMI         0711213        371.387.5t  .     403.652.175     362794.73        41.057.412   1W¶2i95*
b        __                                                                                                                                              _  1 S__.
TOTAL  m b is bor) _ __                                                         126.              1.353.16.090    1.213.060.248     133.333.S42
_                                                                                             __                      __..' .
Lob 3.E4 ENTEC                                            02/11136        47.46?.035        62.877.641      47.154.221       5.723.420   0O912197        3.001.197
Lobt To silO                     CDE                      0V1119S        224.037.996       236.600.630     209.335.373      27.165.263   08112f97
Lo 6e.9                          ADRAME Gnhe COl          02M11115       11Z979.659        127.725.637     113.900.83       13.824.874   06112/97'        583.040
TOTAL (vnat)                                                                     364.44e           417.103.814     370.390.257       4.T13.557                   3.584.23t
TOTAL tls de La"                                                               1.670.60.M         1.71023.104    1.564.240.505      168.056,390                  3.864.237
NWA&Okod
_ -                                                                a
_ 3. hAngementOM  Oe   1 S 1084
nr" do Dot 
-                                     --  
Lo i V1RD op iouie*M             CDE                      20109195      252.1d.115         275.457.316     247.011.565      27.545.731    231121/7      19.452.433
_.-                                                                          a  
Lol I (A"rwsni1)                 COE                     301061?        215.625.33         216.051.21.    194A46.093        21.605.122    23112197      11.162.A09
TOTAL Lot 1                                                                      467.721.512       491.808.631     442.35r.676       49.150.853                 30.614.542
Lots2513
Am6nseme  ges                    SETRA                    20109195      330.q9o.406        356.236.234     314.97S.64       41.2S9.27     23t12/97       5.432.637
routike ot man   de
Lots 2 it 3
A.ntngemeoft Oae                 8ETRA                    3010197        60.039.21          07.76.910       87.816.246        O..724    23112/97         1.328.094
isutike it maGM" de
-                                    -                                a      _      __.                                                                               -
Lob 2 at3
Am6nagemerndoa                   SETRA                    04111197       102.64.249        125.4e2.406     112.645.707       12.606.701    2312197      68974.191
mutore et march de
Doemo (Aveoant nl2)    _ _---                                                                                                                                     1 ., .  _
2



no              tmtRE                 ole           ENTREPRISE           D_a        MONTANtDU        COUT FINAL              FINANCEMENT               ODts de      Montbnt
d'Appd6                           s,uat,JDU                                                                     Riceptgon
doNms        ADJUDICATAIRE        dui Mardi     MARCHE            MARCHE                                         pindiofte   Impayl ONO
(TCOlpdis          IDA              ND0                       2169
idelon des pitx)                                     ()        a  4O
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   |_           _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ d_               _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____ _dp C l l  |  d IIIll h I   |
tOtAL lob 2 et 3                                                                513353.02         P1747.612       516.437.1t?      64.040.ss5                 16.732.22
TOTAL vlUS de NZkusord                                                          UslioS.40        1.070.06.1A43     57.7t695       113.200.U5                   .3449464
4    KIhdla                         15fW _4
-                                                                                         -
4n. DOlsn    iwt deu quuw                CDE                      2001095       412.032037        463.611.630     417.214.467       46.357.183    29112197     34.298.077
KGnnd6 et Bhnnfeus (Axe A)                                                                        _          __         __   _
-   ~-                                                                     - 
TOTAL   . A                              _                                      4132.=137         463.61.630      417.214.467       46.357.163                 34.296.077
4b DIYen_w_mot de quwsj                  ENCO-S                   299195        373.675.735                                                      2911219T     20.790.255
Kia    dS anle f(Ax 3)                                                                                                                              -
4b1. Denhvm snt des                      ENCOS                                   32.611.121                                                      29112197
quta fkimnd6 d Sodlo
(Axe B) TvXompWmtue               _,                       -                                                   _               _                            _
TOTAL (A1l a                                                                    4120.6WU0         456.042         410.738.102       48.304.704                 20.790.259
TOTAL vilt de Klndle                                                              sin.28.3        019.614.436      627.952.66       91.661.867                 55.009.332
TTL NEL_ _ ___ -                                                                   -
TOTAL G1ENERAlL                         *_______                               .34r.107.465    7.622.110.572    7.022.9500072    790.100.600  _____          195.163.150



ANNEXE3
SECOND PROJET URBAIN Cr6dIt IDA 2112 - GUI
SITUATION DES DECOMPTES IMPAYES SUR UE BND
au 25 Juln 1998
*  Int du paVjet         hbnm du foumlt mn                   Dtb      Montanton   Sous-Tab on
Diampait                  GNF            QNF
TOTALNgRSRCUE
DE dONAKRY
Blbmiv T4 Noed, Cwni nord    ENCO=5                      9        3111217      5.112.313       6112.313
Bd Hw bdalas.Iee             ANDRADE GUT1ERRZ            16       3011197    52.423.945       52423.945
Biimage CMiche Sud           ENCO-5                     11        3111o97    19.08Z210
12       3011N117    13.769276
13       3111217    35.779.819
140       0410216      9.373.581
15*      221W98       9.373.581      373467
Comlruion Tanm tsule T3       ASTAL _I                   6        311107    19278.099
7        301117    28.896.545
a        311117   137.128.633
r       -12102)M     12.143.756
_10      17l03116    12.143.756     20    .769
unom    dutr                | TetCDEL                   67C       311017       5.79a.356
3011197               3.680902
________    3111217   3.515.681
70C       30104198    10.139.317
?7C       31051#       t.666.577
72C      32061        10242.163
N  -NAU   Js*JAot      7.000.000     43.23.19ff
TOTaAL   RASIRUCTURES   CONAKRY                                                                .      0
VILLEB SECONEDAIRES____
_nomin rmt de Lub             GENTEC                      4        30106116     1.136.956
(Av    )                                         .                   .
5        3111116      1.631.136
*         OSIW9        233.005         0M1.197
ARME GM*n ONB              se       10X oas         B3040         0si
CoIIIvU_l de Kwn              KHAYAT                      I        1111l197     7.967.740
_okmnt d etbk"
de digK_
2        10MI97       6.369.508



IntMlf du prqt          Nom du toumas,Ur                     Dow       mon Wnt en   Sous-TotF  on
D6cow4d                    GNF           ONF
3        02M2197    13.018.914
4        31112197    12236,998
5        09102198     3.961.320      43.SV 40
Corntau    de Us denkwan      KHAYAT                      I         1011197      8.493.O0
Wmo twnn Rb. de
KouvuumRte Ude Siou_
2        1011 niw     6.939.675
3        02n2197       .0oz93s
4        31112197    18.827.640
_        09RIM        4235.325       45.6.75
We de nZ6rImr:                CD£                         6         30109197     3.960.847
mIdeNe.m   gaere*r            Marehi de bs
nrmrt de Dorat
Lot I VRD ga  rouNe
7        31n12197     2530.356
OWAB02               4.650.908      11.162.0
CD.E                        1        30109157     5.306.019
Avunat nl
2        311101       6.093.090
3        30111M 7     3.432.441
4        3111287      4.60.493        GAS .OU
Vito Us n76vMW6:               UETRA                      I1        2011187      2125.075
sm6reniswd pav rouGers at      Muaini de barn
-!iwrd*IS  de bof
La12 at 3
t2        t1012198     1.663.251
IT        19105        1.53281         5A32.37
SETRAk                      4        l1am2196      M25.988
*        o10w116       400.053
tl       19105198       400.053       I.2094
SETRA                       2        0411215?     3249251
Avwmt n2
3         mi          4696.S
.  4     tllS           513.11:
.r t     19105          5t1at171         74.11
Vll de KOda                    CAL                         4        3_195        335303
D&wn_Imtdtlquwt
K6enwd5 at  SinUou  (Ain  A)   _  _  _  _  _   _  _                              _  _   _     _  _  _  _
5        31110197     5.54.997
6        0411217      92M.546
2



IE II                I 00
2*~        Ii.     C    
I~~  I     II      I   
1 - 1            .



ANNEXE 3b
CELLULE D'ENTRETIEN DE LA VOIRIE SECONDAIRE
(Juml 1998)
ETAT D'AVANCEMENT
PDU2 Pastion et exkDdoa des mutmbis d'enbetiet aveats de vYOre scondair
Marcht 2PU88      Mvhe 2PU89         Mac  2 PU90          Mah6 2PU91             Totla
LaountcApW  dbffrhs               19 Mas 1996       19 Mars 1996      21 Odobr 1996        21 Odobre 1996
Owtumdsspl                        19AvI 1996        19Avr 1996        4Dsomnber?S16        4Dncambe 1996
Rmpon mpoi                         28 Mal 96          28 Mai 96        6 Dmbm 96            6 Di6mbm 96
ACGP > DATU
Ahjdis_ k                         ADRAME GC          SOGUrrRO        ES . GENOAFPJK        EtS - GENOAFRIK
Demade Non Objdon BM
Obn  Non Objion BM                 22JuIIt96         22Ju11t 96         22 Jiw r97           22Janvir97
NodMioabon aum  s1mps              23Ju11996         23u11996          23Jan1997            23Jan1987
Obca  Dion auvam                 28 Nombm 6          24 Mom 97          29 Aot 1997          29 aot 1997
OblWnion uulon de garan          28 Novembm 96       24 Mos97           6 Odbm 97            6 Odobm 97
S_    * _dumuwrA                   2D Now 1997       20 Nov 1997        30 Juin 19;7         30Juin 1997
bontb"  HT                         356775952         274303675          435037710            354244 000         1 420361337
Ava!  : k ow n tGoumor&            35677595          27430675            43503771             35424400          142036441
Pab=nt G_uve :doe d               3 Jwwimr 1997      8Awl 1997            1411J87            8 OdDoke 97
Pa|mmitGouvemonu: mfdlOft     |    35677595          27 430675           43503771             35424400           89106270
Aviom  mwnt IDA                    35677595           27 430 675         43503771             35424400          142 036 441
Paimnt IDA: dat                  27 Ja_r 1997        2 wsM1oI7        23 DIonm 97           23 MD6ombe 97
Paimmt lDA: mon t                  35677595          27 430D675          43503771             35424400          142 036 441
Obenloen _rn6ralo                                    2B AdlI1              TTC                   TTC
Dimawugp des twmvaa                29 *pt 1997.      i5 mpt 1997                              29 ad 1997
MorntutW3D Mai 1998               358009556         306052530          441 101 175           355346116         1 460509377
%parmreowttaumnntddum n*              88%.              89%                93%                  78%                B7 %
de bus4Avnmt
Slgnat  Avsant                      27 Fv. 98         27 Fv.98           27 FR.98             27 F4v.98
Awnant mntait                      50352310           712918S6           40584500             104485435          26614 111



ANNEXE 4
COMPOSANTE C: RENFORCEMENT DES INSTiTUTIONS URBAINES
SERVICE PUBLIC DE TRANSFERT DES DECHETS (SPTD)
SITUATION DES MARCHES DES POINTS DE REGROUPEMENT
no du        Dob du              DRF             Dat d         Monbr*        Romboursm    Montbnt not I    Euioutlon mu
Dh9o_p         Dhoomptebo l                        Pnt                          nt *vnco de        payer         300OO"
n                       -      _      _D_         d6marra       _        _
TRANSCEQ4U.EJ.                                                       101.114.U00
Avane de       061011         473      121020      13103/98         21.562.90                     21.562.980
23/04198        04      3010419     131"6            58.494.300     11.6e8.80       46.795.440
110519                    82        30105196    11108196        28.202.500       5.640.450     22.562.050
TOTAL                                                                                     9.940.450
E.I.C a& MJAC.                                                        0.439.400
Avanoe do      20/12197      471       0710116    0100              16.087.00                      1.087.800
I          2510416       612       1510519     12M N           38.875.650       7.775.130     31.100.520
2          2W0596         633      131o09       n cour,         30.003.900      7.616.780      30.467.120
TOTAL                                 .             .                                     7.65.440



ANNEXE 
COMPOSANTE C: RENFORCEMENT DES INSTITUTIONS URBAINES
SERVICE PUBLIC DE TRANSFERT DES DECHETS (SPTD)
SITUATION DE LAMENAOEMENT SOMMAIRE DE LA DECHARGE DE LA MINIERE
TULAI  DU MARCHE: Entopffee ENCO                            Montarn du moreb              Montant payable on
en OWP-~~~
_                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U81)(48%)  ONF (S2%)
fi9.392.110             214.S41       2o.083.89
nf du       Dae du                 DRF                Deb de       Monbnt en            Montant on USD
Diomp.          .p             le           Deb        panme            ONF
Avanoe de     31A)9           405         03104198      13/0418                                         42.906,44
Avai de       3109            490         0304106       17T04          54.016.779
1         14105           626         2210596       110619         41.439.404
1         14196           52          221056        O019                                            32.917,55
2         05O0U9          636         161 S         on co a                                         57.763,
2         0510696         e3V         16I1S         en cours       72.738.626
TOTAL PFONISOIR         _            _      _      _                16S.195.OW                      133.06,37



ids 0615.UC                                                                                           24106W9E
SECOND PROJET URBAIN - CREDIT IDA 2112 GUI - PROGRAMME DuTLJsATON APRES IREALLOCATION  du 30197
DU CREDrr EN DATE DU 15.06.98 - (on millions de GNF. USS at de DTS)           I DTS -    1.318 SUS   tau de change
1 USD=    1 229 FG    f116t98)
MONTANT PREVISIONNEL        MONTANT DECAISSE
'AR DART
N-        CATEGORES                           IDA BND REF.  OBS. TOTAL BND          IDA           BND       1DA
GNF  GNF   USS    DTS          N'                DTS
1. TRAVAUX GENIE CIVIL
1. ?FRASThUCrURES CONAKRY
I HL..W-B*bu-  LDd. Uban)                    0.00 0.10        MN  10510 1 159   9.470    6.49   1 107   9.470        6.493
2L* Ae .T1.T4Nord (Sin aWn   311293)         0.90 0.1 2U0t  MN   6400  720   7.000    4.988    720   7.000           4.968
3 LoPi .Tt T4Nord (Air.n2)aItv.n3-           0,90 0,10 2PU    MN   2848   354   2S67    .088    14 |        967      2.088
2 bt)2PU65 + 2PU72                         0.09 0.10        MN
4   6iang  T4 Nord ot Comiche Nord           0.90 0.10        MN   1106   112   0.ns       0.681    107   0.985      0.618
6 Assahoisant Conalay                        0.90 0.10 2U00  MN   I 87   233   2207   1I592    233   2207            169
6 A*sAn*smw coimpWno   Conly (PMA)   0.90 0.10
7   CPSEA LO    Aot C)                       0.90 0.10 2PU081 MN       94   10   0.079    0.056       9   0.079      0.056
8      nw (Lots)                             0.90 0.10  M2      N     105   11   0.094    0.066      10   0.084      0.066
9 Comidoh SudW  rhabbion accsA is didhawo   0.9  0.10 MM   MN   4047  410   3.370    2.428    323   3.370            2.428
10 Ouvewo    t tPav&WmrA T3 + (Vx V*I.)       0.90 0.10 2PU1   MN   S37    S3t   4.670    8.425    321   4.670        3.425
11 6Enrolnomss s.oonis
12   ADRAME   + mnmS nt                       0.90  a          MN      460         0393    029              0231      0219
13   SOGUITRO + avnt nt                       0.90  .          MN      379         0.33     0244            02        0.174
14   E.I.S.-GENO AFRI + wenantort             0.90  .          MN      475         0.415    0.306           0249      0.196
15   E.I.S.-GENO AFPK +awrwn   nl             0.90  a  tU091 MN        442         0.396    02              0246      0.183
16 Din                                        01.      2P00 U1   COM    10         O09    0.006             0.009    0Q0061
sledmlwaL1   ZMD  WM                                  f       2975  31.13        22572
Montindeid                     AC                 31AS2   23.7Z
D*mb"                                         -0.924    0.792
* o_nkbuon Gow mral Cay (194 h)
lb. VLLES SECONDARS
vIe de Kankan
17 VoO Kdnkan (VW* suC.w* Nord)               0.90 0.10        MN      784    eo 0.816   OSU          S0  0D16        0546
18 Asanssomon  Kwnk (Cn oal *nf 0.90 0.10                     MN      716   72   0.942    0.         72   0.842      0.604
19 Twv  aMPI. carna eoora) + as_ain4-burnage  0.90 0.10        MN      E24   83   0.633    0.451      83   0.633      0.451
frgon Ri KiuuidougOuR. Kowusa.
20 Cordw,waa Nord Triamwna.Ass         em.nr  0.9O   0.10 2U1  M N      39     4   0.6      0.07   84   0,619          0.457
VnOon PA* do Knwowjss.4o do S4.
21 Assa__iPii     rongon Ro K       _udugo     0.90 0.10  PJu1a  MN    435   4    0.337    04               Q037       0264
Rio do KmWOUs  Avaat hI MaY (PU99)
22 Caftowift NOrd Kankn. bjxmae hnqon Ra  O9  0.10 2PU1St MN           486   47   0.357    0264             0357       0.264
Kour.A"    do SiguMi. Aw. rn1 mawh (2pu109J
23 Assinmo t  nLa   GRP GENTEC (iotf)          0.90 0.10 2PU0t1 MN      168   17   0.1#9   0.11       17   0.159       0.110
CD£E On l. 2 4. 7)        0.  0.10         MN      781   81   0.738    0.51       81   0.738      0.516
ADRAME (Ibs n S. 6. 8)    0.90 0.10        MN      404   41   0.387    0=         41   O0387      0269
24 Aansemenl La"b (Tvx wmpI.).Awnwi nt   0.90 0.1
GRP GENTEC (Ia  3 14)    0.90 0.10         MN       Gs    6   0.06      0.              04        0.033
CDE (iots 7 a W0)         0.90 0.10        MN      237   27   0234    0.163       27   0234       0.163
ADRAME (ke6 o 8)          0.90 0.10    2PUMN       13B   14   0.118    0.        t 8 t  0.118     003
25 Equip. NZ&4kori (March. Gam rLur)           0.90 0.10
CE (L o)                                 0.90 0.10        MN      275   2S   0237    0.17             0237       0.170
CDE (Lot 1). w nI                        0.90 0D10 2Ra  MN        216   22   0.177      I3M      11   0.177      0.m
SETRA (Les2 2t 8)                        0.80 0.10        MN      366   41   0W44    02           6   0.344      0247
SESTA(Lots 2 e 3).   ni tn               0.0 0.10 PUt 2   MN   9         10  0Gi  Q08             9   0.00       0.06
SEPA (Lee 2013). awnuwt n7.              0.90 0.10 2PIU  MN       125    13   0.100    o.a        4   0.100      0.066
2 Voie do Kinca (dis   wnord am A) CDE          .90 0.10        MN      484   46   0399    02          2   0.399       0285
27 Vmer de Krha (disaneWmenmonl noB) ENCO6  0.90 0.10 PUt1    MN        456   46   0.364                5 24   0.34    0257
im  mi La                             La3   &-
AC                 6.06D    4
-0.916   -0.



I        -AN ART  |  heDN'T  i, PREVSIONNEL    MONTANT OE4ASSE
PA    ART
N'        CATEGORIES                          IDA BND REF.  OBS. TOtAL BND           IDA          BND       IDA
GNF  GNF   USS    DTS    ONF                   DTS
lr. AMENAGEMENT LAMBANYI. 
28 Docapag   pnses (Av. Nl- 1)                1.00     2PUt0. P01   MN  136        0.165    0.117          01165      0.117
29 Voines sownduzr.s (March de bas)           1.00 0.  2PWU  MN       940          0.996    0.712          0.996      C.712
30 Voas seoondawes (Av. nt - Dpassom.ns)      1.00 0.00 2PU07  MN      491         0,710    0.515          0.710      0.515
31 Adduton deana (Conduile maioss)            0.00 1.00 2PU051 MN      a68                           368
32 Towaw lopoaphiques LambartwKobays          1.00 0.00    2 PU0  MN    18         0.019    0.013           0.018     0.013
33 SSades wn6nad . Dts VWi tawam fopo.  ean    1.00 000 2UM061 MN       75         0.075    0.051          0.075      0.051
84 OuA.ka vws lot N6S (VW* d Conay)           1.00 0.00  07    MN       SD         0.090    0.03            0.09D     0.063
35 Au. Tockn. Ponuek. (Eq*p. loea  ACT)       1.00 0.00       COM        9         0.003    0.002           0.003     0.002
SDU 21~~ZJ11    0   L  27                                     ZZ 
Mon add                       AC                   1.W7    I.A6
D bb"                                         - o0250   -0.110
A FOLITURES. VEHIOCJLES
E MAEREL POUR
2L M.U4.
36 Vacbies SIDG ( SiuI Lx4 pow DATU)          1.00 0.00 VWU0    MN      a8         0.096    0.069           0.096      0.069
37 VWhiule SATA GUIEE (1 P*m UJI Sofopo) 1.00 0.00             MN       36          03      0M              0.3        0.038
U8 Equienm    Redo V. K. F. (hber-Arw)        1.00 0.00        MN       84          004    0.Q              0.4        0.0o3
39 DATU Eqwpemrt Womwque  l)                  1.00 0.00        MN       42          0.042    0.029          0.042     0M9
40 DATU 1(VihioLe 4  Dov.U.bomm OpiraiDon     100 0.00         MN       26          0.022    om1            on         0.015
41 Sphi  3M M(EquipemiM fo.(Cab.HDATU) 1.00 0D0 u              MN      100          0.06    0.O            0.06       0.068
42 Sphwt OM (Equip. *orm. Collu Vast. -       1.00 0.00  MU1   MN       43         0.035    0.
PaImes  CVS).
43 Div"                                       1.0 0.00         COM    6a            061    0.               0.631      0.489
Mortnlded                      AC                  0.82    0M
DmPonibl                                      -0.182  -0=
gb. VIUE DE CONAKRY
44 Vhitim  SIDG (eueot 205 pour mob. tes. lc.)  1.00 0.0O       MN      14          0.016    0.011          0.015      0011
45 Vtisie SAEG PDalu 4dx pow mob. ts. ib.)  1.00 0.00 2PU02  MN         20          0.0Z     0.018          0.020      0.013
46dw.Ara MaL 1*. F. NAVARREIwvdWt)  1.0  0.00                   MN       17         0.018    0.013          009        0.018
47 VJ CnO blir buroas  Mm. Nav   + Vag)    1. o0 .0w            MN      l           O.1l    O.              0O1l       OO
48 RPXL erm (F . MaL BuomL F.Navr +UbI)   ta  000             MN       Is          OM5    0.014            0.00       0.014
489 EEG. pl. digisiks Conalby (foqtis al)    1.0 0.00           MN      34         0O.0a     0.036         OI         0
50 E2qup.md am$ dieeortehs (Vik de Ckr)
-Mobbet do burea  (SWAMeb1.)              1.00 o0           MN       4         0.045    om              0.045      .02
-EquipeM. rh_do m     (US9)               1.0 O.00         MN       14         0.015   0O1              0.015     0.010
-MuI       busaiqus POROGUVW)             1.0 O.00         MN       29         0.037    0.01            0.007     0 019
._ vs  "sp.. (IOnNSTRlMENTS)              1.00 0.00        MN       20         a.m      o.m            0mm        01ms
61 Equois.rdhomdqi. Vi. d Cby                  1.00 O.          MN       64         000    0.              0.060      0.042
52 CAnraliion aksesap la"a 2 Pic*k-p)          1 010.0          MN       2          0.0!2    0.             MM62       0.036
63 Calum dbeaen (ac a I P;sJkp)                100 a0           MN       26         015    011             0m         0.018
64 Coopl. mob. et mien.l de bau s*tDI          100 01 2J1    MN          67        M015      0044          0m         0.0U4
&wucier de Il VII.
56 Piempalomret des v6kules diAA aow           110 0.00         MN   26             0104    011              0.024     0.017
(smgon 1 Pik LiUp, Mobisdon PRes. Loaes).
56 CdIie CA& a. ( ta*irbl Womiqum              11 0o00 w         N       40                 o        n      0.034      Om5
57 Gmup E  d21o$    (wwum Go _wr)              tI.  0.00 Wt1  COM        29         Om       0.01           0m        0.OQO
so rrs (amoe de dazsouque). odamits.daf        1100 0.00 .1.11   COM     11         010      0.008           0     .006 010
S9 Dir                                         110 o.1          CMO     160         0.160    0,11            0.10      0.112
Un"   .                        . 
Moda i                         AC                  0.787    0584
0,11t    ,118_



I                               D~~~~~~~ARTPART               IN        D           BD          D
Ntq       CATEGOPJES                          IDA BND REF.  OBS.TOTAL BND                         BND         DA
I                                                         I -I G_______________GN________  _  GNF   USS    DTS    GNF  DTS
2c. UPSU                                   _   _
60 Vohicues SIDG E4 Suld4W4 pour rUPSU)       1.00 0.00                                                         0U MN  6  0.066    0.04  0.06OS  .0C 
61 M.CJC. (ouU4ag caMonfli@)                  1.0 0 0.00  U    MN       17         0.019    0.012
62 USOA (touwr   40 conneums lOim3)           1.00 o.0 2PU01  MN       86          0.096    0.068          C.09i      0.068
63 USOA (bum. & inst. wi  cuburant 10000 o We.)  1.00 0.00 2UO1  MN    I 1         0.012    0.038          0.012      0.008
64 |PfEDLANDER (dion 70 contenews tOinS)    1.00 0.00 PUO1  MN         99          0.107    0.076          0.1|7    0.076
65 roca R.wA HydroUreur                       1.00 0.a 0 2PU0   MN    23           0,191    0.139          0.191      0.139
66 Fc   LANDEP. rhab.Corganes (1ore finch)   1.0 o.o0 2U1   MN         162         0.150    0.109          0.150      0.109
67 FREDLRr6hb. orges( 32 twslO )             10 o.00000 1U    M MN    257         om       0.165           am        0.165
BB FREDLANDIER. o        SPTrD                1.00 0       l . I  MN    12         0.012    0.              0.012     0.008
69 SETA Gu,in  . pneunaques                   1.00 0.00 ZPUI    MN      71         0.066    0.04            0.065     0.047
70 U  OhER Acquison  un c urgu SPTD           1.00 0.00 2PU    MN      140         0.121    0.09            0.121     0.090
71 ELA   n. so         .dschargw de Is MUnii    1.00 0.00 2PUI1   MN    20         0.018    0.013           0.018     0.013
72 T,wdcEniA . dff g Fde aUMhihm              1.00 0.00 21U1 7MN       m          O.U7    0.331            0.155     0.115
73 Arrnapernent des poins de fagroupwnerN     1.00 0.00 2U12 MN        20          0.176    0.127           0.118     0.087
74 SETA  Guir.   _q&ison Pick Up 2x 4 (SMTD)    1.O0 0.00 2PU1   MN     28         0.020    0.01            0.020     0.015
75 SICOM. aequison de 12 mot(SPTD)            1.00 0.00 2PUt41 MN       26    om            0.017           om3        0.017
76 RIIEDWLANE         m ibs. de SD ba. d 20 m3    1.00 0.00 2FUI   MN  18l         0.149    0.110           0.04       0.033
77 Drars                                      1.00 0O.O        COM     142          0.142    0.102          0.142      0.103
Soh                   225s    Q   2Q200   Z                 tS80       t tS2
Montr  ledi                   AC                   2.422    1.82
DOponbI                                        0.3S7    0.342
78 3. FRAIS FONcnONNEM. UPSU
b.L Exwci. 1991                            0.40 0.60         CS     48   288   0.170    0.123    340   0.170        0.123
b. Eaxsrgcic iea                            0.40 060        CS     253  212   0.084    0.059   11    0.084        0. 05
3e. Exwrioi 1998                           0.40 0.60         CS     240  I4    0.185    0.130    100   0.185        0.130
3d. Exemco 1994                             0.40 0.60        Cs     111    60   0.141    0.096           0.141      OM96S
Mo,wnt ais i                   AC                  0.541    0.40
4 ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE ET FORMATION
M.U. H.
79 TndclbMl (asist adn*i. & knan. - J. GrSnsir  1.00 0.00       MN     673          0.67S    0.481          0.673      0.481
80 TmNslb.(avsrwtd n,: - J.Grrub.r             1.O0 0.00        MN     164          0.164    0.11           0.164      0.113
81 TraWbel (avsne  nZ: - J.Grenober)           1.00 0.00        MN     a8a          0.362    024           o0.63       0242
82 Trasibel lwsnwi n'S: - J.Grn*Wr) in 96      1.0 0.00 2       MN     298          0298    0209            028        029
83 Tredeb.l (anwd n 4: - J.Grtn;ebr)in 97      1.00 0.00 FUIIl MN      321          0296    0.21            0296       0219
84 Tradebl (.vwt nWS: - J.C Wnsr) fn &W Se   1.00 0.00 2PUI    MN      2Z7          0.18    0.13           0.02       0.068
SETYM (oImalon on nw3is. de pr*tt .,
S5 Kouys% 2 wis u Oubec)                       1.00 0.00        MN     s60  .       0.06'0   .044           060        0.044
U L       W NF(mission appti DATI              1.00 0.00        MN   1112           1.119    0.794          1.119      0.794
87 LOB h*niurVRD (,rnn nI)                     1.00 0.00        MN      196         0.196    0.13           0.196      0.195
88 hLginsurVRD (av.erwn-4 poong. in 97   1D0  0O.  kUll   iN            340         0        0278   D       0276       0200
89 Price Wal tuus. (logiciel buncier Cra n     1.DO QO0 2FU10  MN       21          0021      01            0.21       0.015
90 ACT (asist WhvL DATU .Lwnbril               1;O0 0.00       cOml    3a           OD3a   0.02             0.033      O.OZ
e1 Price W     _shouso (ma*croms 91)           1.00 0O.  MFUOt   N      43         o003    O                0.043      on30
92 Pc W,whoub. PDMlO   nan r 1)                1.00 0.00        MN       43         0n00    o0o04           0.005      O.004
93 Pnce Wasui      (Aud Comps 6                1.00 .00        MN      21          0.021    0.01           0.021      0.016
94 ERNST & YOUNG (Audk c, opt 93)              1.00 0.00        MN       15         0.015    01l             .015      0.011
95 ERNST & YOUNG (Auitcc ss 984)               1.00 0.00        MN       is         0.017    0,012         o017        0.012
96 ERNST & YOLNG (Au* compss 95)               1.00 0.00 FPU1   MN       17         om.1     0.01           0.016      Om11
97 4,r   & YOUNG (Aucl compts 96)              1.00 0.00 F 2PU  MN       20         &O       0.01    t      01         0.019
98 ERNST i YOUNG (Audit copss 97)              1.00 0.00 FUI   MN        s0         0.025    0.01Q OD                  0.019
99 ERNST & YOUNG (AudN c ompas 96)             10 0.00 2PUI    MN        16         0.013    0.01
100 ERNST & YOUNG (Logiol Tompro)               1.0 0.0 2PUM              19         001    0 2              0.031      0021
101 Foiinaon 2omisqus fDATU. Vl do Clay.
SOLOPRIMO                                   1.00 o.00        MN        7         0.       ODO             0.007     0.00O
102 Asuismo SOLOPRIO (RMH~EMDI                  1.00D 0.00 VO   MN       67          0.067    0               .07       0.027
103 SETEC. hmuiorn 2 bqgi*r     TU              1.00 0.00 2UI4  MN                   0. O0S6  0
104 Dtrs                                        1.00 0          CO       108         0.101    0                1        0
Moculhct                       AC                  8.78
_.0M



DA   ART
N'|       CATEGORIES                         DA BND|REF   OBS. TOTAL BND          IDA         I BND       IDA
!   __________________________                 _             I G    | GNF I                      DTS
4b. VLLE DE CONAKRY
106 Tracmb.l(onwb"c. blc. Fav4rT lore uaio)    1.00 0.00 2U    MN    268         0.26    0.190           0268      0.190
106 Trob.l (avrtntrnI -dito 2.me oann)        1.00 0.00 VVz  MN      206         0.26    0.1U            0206       0.1l
107 Totbl(avena ntn2 -daleo 3  rm. 6 nois)    1.00 0.00    o a MN     Ill         0.111    0.078         0.111      0.078
108 Tfeabcr(avenerin  - dao suwim kint9)      1.00 0.00 2PU0S  MN     453         0.463    0297          0.488      0297
109 Trotebslvrenuatn4 -dat suhl Ain 16)       1.00 0.00 MM  MN        278        O.2     0205           0219       0205
110 VNF(instucton budgpbko - mssion JM MwMui)    1.00 0.00 2U021 MN    15         0.014   0.010          0.014      0.010
111 G.Nbawe(*tuid.tMmepwteN)                  1.00 0.00 2PU    MN      30         0.030    0.021          0.090     0.021
112 VNWAss.VM  CKRYODubois -Cons.Gow.)   1.00 0.00 3UOL  MN           251         0261   0.180            0251      0.1l0
113 VNF PnPFnorm. (4 qyes en On)              1.00 0.00 2PU    MN     106         0.086   0.61            OAS       0.081
114 VNF (PIanFormon- soo dipnse soa)          1.00 0.00 o     MN       32         0.029    0.023          0.        0.023
115 GROUPE IJT. hMsion Prop. Adrossag         1.00 0.00       MN       22         0.02    0.016           0.022     0.016
116 VNF Mission Prp. Plan do Form. Ve         1.A0 0.00 Ek    MN        6         0.006    0.4            0.006     0.004
117 GROUPE HUT. Opteink Pibo  aossge          1.00 0.00 2 i  MN       1IS9        0.11    0.128           0.1       0.128E
118 GROUPE HMT. gial. adrousago. 1n *. ue   11.00 oo 20.09  MN        212         0.197    0.13           0.197     0.137
119 GEmial. adressag. (Trawl. 1 fx prparaoiros)   1.0  00     COM       2         002    0.001            0.002    O0.m
120 Gibiomraisonadressage (parneazug)         1AO.   2Pu00  MN      127       0.12       0087           0.12     0.067
121 Ginirollonadrssage(pwneautap)   naf       1 .0  0.00 o2P4 MN        6         0.077    06             0.04      0.05
122 MAPS tadressaq.prnu   deiues aitbms)      1.00 0.00 2Pu   MN      100         0100    0.06            0.100     0.068
123 Cuhle des Mch6sx (moensamrms on seuwm)    1,.00 MoD 2P    MN       27         0.27    0.018           0.027     0.018
124 Campna   do VWigwadon (Op. arokessag)     1.00 0.00  N    MN       14         0.010   00             0O101    0.006
125 Budget *eSewsem  how at _sauaAn           1.OD 0.00 aWu    MN      24         0.022    0.015         .OZ        O.S
126 Arinagomont dsnawhs dew coenmwurs         1.00 0.00 2PUI43 MN      62         0.051    039            0,027     0.021
127 Panraon b*wmdquo (Gouenmort MUL           1.0D o.00 aWIJI  MN      18         0.016   0.0l            0.016     0.011
128 GiMirahsion adrossgoi (2m  lnh.)          1.m 0.0 2U14 MN         197         0.179    0.128          0.146     0.105
128 Mddiabaon du PDU2                        1.00 0.00   127 MN4      49         0.040   00 027                  0o0
130 Budgotionoimnemont66(oEVS)                1.0 0o.  2uu14  MN       38         0m       0.0o2          0.0111     . O
121 Budget do londorenr   98 QOkds  Dbessge    1.00 0.00 QCO 2    MN   17         0.015    0.01           0.003     0.002
132 D s                                       1.00 0.00       COM      12         0.012   0.006           0.0112    0.0
z.i      a fli 229                   LM 
Monrstd                       AC                 222      2.128
D¢>WPW                                       -0.5    0.12
4c. UPSU
133 FPilsaoo (Stud. dorgisdfon UPS)           10 0.00   om   MN       23          0296    0       02E        6      0207
124 VNW, Sas COLUABLY. SAKO                   11.00 o0        cOM      12         0.01     0.             0.012    O0X0
125 Fiubeo (6iude dWo. UPSU) Am.nt t11.00 om ORu=   MN                 30        O00      o0             o08        OZ
ISOios n                                      1 0. o0         coA      22         0.0      0.017          Om6       O.7
S2r^Da ~       ~         u -         9 r _~           at-    a1i            .
-  MortdntSi                     Ar                  0.38    0255
_01     0.wb_ _ _ _



_ I      -    MONTAN7 PREV1SIDNNE..  It W.N'TANT DESA!SSE
PAR DART
Nv        CATEGORIES                         IDA BND|REF.  OSs. TOTAL BND            IDA,         BND       IDA
GNC  GNF   USS        TS    GNP               DTS
5. ETUDES ET SUPERVISION
DE TRAVAUX
137 S.GJ. Lwmmbowug (Mwch6 de base)            1.00 0.0t 20 S MN   2 362            2.362    1.702          2.362      1.702
138 S.01. v. n 1 - Elde addudon eau Lwmbarl    1.00 0.00        MN       29         0.029    0.020            029      0.020
139 S.GJ. (a    n 2 - r6ul. et prongaion& in 96) 1.00 0.00      MN    1 60          1.603    1.049          1.603      1.049
1401 (Miion deon*8re et superuion wx)          1.00 0.00        MN    1 147         1.086    D.7S8          1.086      0.756
141 LBI(Dk) vewnlnl                            1D 0.00 2PU11  MN        612         CASM6    0.37           0S06m      0.36B
14 Ull (Duo) a       n2 + d6pmsen    *aons     1.00 0.00  U13 MN        148         0.125    0.093          0.125      0.093
143 Exde Go. op r. tet pOOP SonE Nro .Cky)   1.00 0.00          MN        a         0.003    0.0m           0.003      0.002
144 Uni de Coodirae   Projet E      _wmeng     1.00 0.00        MN      1D0         0.103    0.071          0103       0.071
Utbain (U!PIPE . budget 96
145 Uni6 de Coorjaon Proq EG _omemf            1.0o 0.00 2PU11  MN       24         0.022    0.01            O.O       0.017
.hbi IIXEU . budget 97
146 UniW de Cowadinaon PrOet Eroemen           1.00 0.00 2PU1   MN       35         0.020    0.1            0.005     O.03
LUbd eJPPEUC). budog 96
147 MAPS pnses dewues aineivs (22 vies)        1.00 0.00 2PU1M MN       417         0379    027              0.379     02
148 ELdes  abonneles Pr*t Enrwonnmer           1.00 O.W 2PU101 MN       327         0297    0216             0.297     0216
Lhb.
149 MAPS.cx Vp4*m. pnse de vies ainerme        1.00 0.00       COM       29         0.0=2    0.017           0.023     0.017
150 CARIG. itdes APS MamM at Gare HndaLye   1.00 0.00 2PUI4  MN          57         0.048    0.036           0.023     0.017
151 De                                         1.0 O.00        COM       16         0.0      0.011           0.016     0.O11
Mortteleatdi                   AC                  6.367    4.90
.ispenble                                     -0.2S4    0.14
6. NON AFFECTE                              1.00 0.00        AC
HORS CATEGORIE
Hi. C   'mpte Sp6WY M.U.H.                  1,00 0.00        AC   10 0           0.075   0.109           O0.75      0.109
HI. Cnple Spl UPSU                          1.00 O0          AC      t0                   0.oa                      0.006
MONTANT DU CREDrr                                                               57.000   43.                           .
TOTAL PREVSIONS EN GAOEME    (1)                                                66S      42297
MONTANTS AFFECT           (2)                                                   67.000   43.00
MONTANT NON AFFECTE
DISPONILE             (                                                        -2.?3    0.7t   419  68.373    41.392
ENGAGEMENTS PAR SIGNATURE (4)                                                   66.334   41.9                     (6)
MONTANTS PRE-ENGAGEs (5)                                                         0000          
Po-oentage Pr6viska Eag lenas                                                           9630%
MonIa du Cr6dit   (1)1(2)
Powente Engagemea pw ar       lgnatr I
Mondtn du  6*t         (4) 1(                                                           97.63X
Powuena_  D6om eemes I Enagme
parsignatue  (6)1(4)                                                                    9mm
Pourreg. D6cmissewmts I MrodSat du
060                    (5)1(2)              _9_.2
MN   M:ck  NoUi
COM      p D&pen    s  Conwndes
MS   M:dh6 en eutn de SWgae
ESll:Elo
CS  :Conp  Sp6dW
AC    :mmi dam lAcowd de C>drt
TAL. PREMW EWAGEEWM                        t * 1OTALOSSOI*-TOANUKECOmSCATE1OO
MO.ITNMTF.'ECTES                                TOTALOELANAftucMONTM AffAMCirOEaOVA CAWAOP
MOTMT a A.MT DISP E                        (3) -P) NON E
WMCWKOPFC-BWACE                           TP1      rALDESM      D -  LTSEr DE5  DES MAPO ENC     C DE
nKAT



MAP SECTION



I _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2n                                                                                                     B , 8
12  GINF(Nl                              1 -
10                                     _^_    -  -5                                                     S         \     o   20  40  60  80  100
( } t J I N i A - (/ ) ge \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMFTERS 
(JUINEAL                   112' 'U
A~-X TLAi /1CA    I    I
/- : Sj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25 000 
/)5> rJ/ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dabola   2
2--  0,000Inaint
Kamsar Km                                                                            L   than 2
77t ,                                                                                                                                                    an iana
40-100 Vomouu n3h                                                                                                    /)/           |                         (0Mo
000 ~  ~      ~ ~ ~ ~  
000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
4TI 4N/Ir   (\                                     ,,,,a, m,,                                                    Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arna
REPAR7TlODEtAPOPUITION w---URBA  CENTER POUnLATI.ROads 9)                                                                 SRA                                     .
-8¢  D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peecstue  Hedq artsersK2  0,0  f
SE O           D   URBA           PROEC                                                Nat''"nal8Capita1
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cptl tnl 



CONAKRY 1990: 1,050,000 inhabitants
GUINEA / GUINEE
SECOND URBAN PROJECT / DEUXIEME PROJET URBAIN
CONAKRY: INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM / PROGRAMME D'INFRASTRUCTURE
KILOMETERS
ROADS / VOIRIE                                                       DRAINAGE IDRAINAGE
Surfaced Existing lExistante Revetue                                 A. Coronthie Sud (45 ha)        CONAKRY 1995: 1,400,000 inhabitants
Unsurfaced Existing lExistante Non Revetue                           B. Gare (40 ha)
Surfaced New INouvelle Revetue                                       C. Tombo (13 ha)
- -     * -.   Unsurfaced New INouvelle Non Revetue                              D. Universite (60 ha)
LAND DEVELOPMENT IEQUIPEMENT DE TERRAIN                               E. Kipe (23 ha)(
Lambanyi-Kobaya Site /Site                                         MANGROVE /MANGROVE                0      5      10
_ iOMM         200 ha. Operation / Operation                                   LA MINIERE                            KILOMETERS
LANDFILL IDECHARGE
0    1   2    3    4    5                         10
I I      I    I    I I    I                                                                                     CONAKkY 2000: 1,850,000 inhabitants
KILOMETERS
X~~                                                                ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,_O    10
ATLANTIC                                                            r
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                               3
7~       V  of te 4zv _~- S3  the'  ~ 
c;7red  ,te of       5    hto//
dO th's      s at,,ot7   k . -  A, th/Ie
Cc,port,E   777s deorrtio-V 5\  / bII
>  p-t c'f wh  fiJ Ba°* ca7, d thew,                                                                 
n    n  o.,t,-ito- on the /59d~ stotus1                                              \r 
I    n    tsw,,i,,t ao' a, c ce                                                    | A e o                                                                                       t
0                                                                                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
su   h  n  ur  s                                                    X                
O X                                                                             



