Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report :so. 8218-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 1990
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document bas a restticted distribution and may be used by redplents only lu the perfonnanoe of
their officiall dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed whhout Wodd Bank autholzuton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   a   Ouln.san Franc (OF)
As of  Janury 26, lffl
US1.00   a   0F 830
CF 1,000   a   USf1.69
UJSSf182   a   SOR 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 01   -   Deeember 31
SYSTEU OF WEIGHTS AND VEASURES (METRIC>
1 meter (m)   a   8.28  feet (ft)
1 kllometer (km)   =   0.62  ells (mi)
1 liter tl)   =   0.26  UB gallons
1 cublc meter (ml)   a   8a.8  cublc feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONY&IS
AfDB          African Development Banx/Banque africaine de développement (BAD)
CCCE          Calsse Centrale de Coopération Econoeique (France)
CDP           Contribution au Développement Préfectoral
CECI          Centre Canadien d'Etudes et de Coolprat0on Internationale
CEPUR         Cellule de Planification Urbaine Régionale -- DATU, _UM
CETU          Compte d'équipement des terrains urbains
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency/Agence canadienne de développement
International (ACOI)
DAFO          Direction des Affaires Foncières -  HM
DATU          Direction de l'aménagement du territoire et de l'urbanisme -- MUM
EDF           European Development Fund/Fonds européen de développement (FED)
EEC           European Economic Communlty/Communaut6 économique européenne (CEE)
FAC           Fonds d'aide et de coopération (France)
GTZ           Deutache Gesellsechaft fTUr Technische Zus_menarbett (Cermany/Allemagne)
ICU           International Competltive Bidd7ng/Appel d'Offres International (AOI)
KfW           Kredltanstalt fuir W7ederaufbau (Germany/Allemagne)
LCB           Local Competttive Biddlng/Appel d'Offres Loca' (AOL)
kUm           MLnistry of Urban Planning end Houslng/lUnlstêre de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
PIP           Public Investment Program/Programme d'InvestTssements Publics
RWSG          Reglonal Water and Sanitation Croup/Groupe régional de l'Eau et de l'Assainissemant
(GREA)
SOGETRAC      Société Générale de Transports en Guinée
SOLOPRIMO     Soci6té de Logements à Prix Mod6rée
TUV           Taxe Unique sur les Véhicules
UNDP          UnTted Nations Development Program/Programse des Nations Unies pour le
d6veloppement (PNJD)
UNEC-BTP      Union Nationale des Entreprises Guinéennes du B.T.P.
UNICEF        United Nations Cf ldren's Fund/Fonds des Nations Unie«  pour l'enfance (FISE)
UPSU          Unité de Pilotage des Services Urbains -- Conakry
UP iC         Unité de Planification Urbaine de Conakry -  DATU, MHM
USAID         Unlted States Agency for International Development/Agence des Etats-Unis pour le
développement international



FOR OMCL#L USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL PEPuRT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUWOARY .i.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
I.  THE SECTOR . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
A. Economic Background  . . .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
B. Urbanization and the Economic Adjustment Procees  . . .
C. Urban Service Deficiencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
D.  Government Strategy for the Urban Sector . . . . . . .         4
E.  Urban Sector Strategy Support  . . . . . . . . . . . .        12
II.  THE PROJECT  .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
A.  Project Objectives and Description ... .       .  .  .  .  .   .  13
B.  Project Coste and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
C.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
D. Procurement .24
E. Disbursements .26
F.  Accounting, Audit and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . .        26
G. Economic, Poverty and Environmental Impact . . . . . .         27
B. Jistification, Benefits and Riske         . . . . . . . .      29
I. Agreements Reached and Recommendations . . . . . . . .         30
ANNEXS
1-1    Central Goverament Urban Institutions  . . . . . . . . . .         32
1-2    Decentralization Policy and Urban Management . . . . . . .        38
1-3    Financing Urban Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         45
2-1    Detailed Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         55
2-2    Action Plan for Rousing and Land Development Component . .         74
2-3    UPSU Financing Plan  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  76
2-4    Project Coet Tables  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  78
2-5    Diebursement Schedule  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  82
2-6    Procurement Arrangements ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  83
2-7    Economic Analysis of Conakry Primary Roads Component  . .          84
3      Documents Available in the Project File .  . . . . . . . .        98
M&PSs   IBRD 22005 Population Distribution
IBRD 22006 Conakry Priority Infrastructure Program
Thla report le baa.d on findinga of en appralul mission whieh vlalted Guinea in Octobor 1989,
conalatin of Meuris. 8.Delaval (Misslon Leadr), P.Canel (Municipal Developent Spèclailst),
J.F. Tribillon and J.L..Vnord (Consu'tant*). Musa S.Snell (Consultant), M.E.Foul-, and C.NIxon
aaalsttd atth the preperet 3n of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMciai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authoreation.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:                 Republic of Guinea
Implementini Agencys      Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing (MUR), City
of Conakry, and Secondary Cities through MUH
Amount:                   SDR 43.0 M (US$57.0 M equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' m&aurity
Cofinancinas             UNDP, FAC, CCCE
Proiect Descriptions      The proposed project would assist the Government
in implementing its strategy for the development
of the urban sector by (a) improving key urban
infrastructure and services; (b) supporting new
land uevelopment operations; (c) developing the
role of the private sector, including small-scale
conetruction enterprises, in the provision of
housing, land development and urban services; and
(d) strengthening municipal governments and urban
institutions country-wide.   To these ends,  the
project would include the folloving components:
(a)  a priority infrastructure program consisting of the
upgrading of key urban Infrastructure in Conakry and
selected secondary cities;
(b)  support for the implementation of a new housing
policy developed in connection with the preparation
of this project, through the promotion of private
and local developers and the financing of replicable
land development operations;
(c)  continuation of the program to assist the develop-
ment of small construction enterprises initiated
under the First Urban Project; and
(d)  development of urban institutions including support
to improve MUH's project management capacity and
strengthening of municipal governments, in Conakry
and secondary cities, through: (i) clarification of
their institutional, fiscal and financial environ-
ment; (i$) improvement of local resource mobiliza-
tion; and (iiI) support for the provision of basic
urban services.
Environmental Impacts    The project will allow for a sustainable improvement
of the living and working environment of Guinean
cities and there are no activities in the proposed
project which could create significant adverse
environnental effects. The physical, health and



- ii -
socio-economic conditions of the urban population
vill be greatly improved as a result of the
upgrading of urban infrastructure, the implemen-
tation of new land development operations, and the
improved provision of basic urban services, such as
garbage collection and drainage maintenance. These
combined actions vill significantly reduce the
severe health hazards resualting from existing
unsanitary conditions in urban areas.
Prolect Benefits:         The project is expected to consolidate the basis
for sustainable urban development initiated under
the First Urban Project and to improve both the
iunctioning of cities as centers of economic growth
and social development and the support that they
provide to the development of private initiatives.
This vill be attained through a three-pronged
approach of infrastructure upgrading, resource
mobilization and strengthening of urban institu-
tions.  Through the combined action of infrastruc-
ture upgrading and urban services improvement, the
project vill significantly improve the vorking and
living environment of Guinea's urban centers,
particularly for the least developed neighborhoods
inhabited by the poorer segment of the population.
Through  the  adjustment  of  urban  and  housing
policies, the project vill enable the Central
Government to transfer gradu:ai y responsibility for
urban management to local author'ties and private
operators, thereby freeing Government resources for
other sectors of the economy and increasing overall
efficiency.
Proiect Risks:            Major risks result from the veak implementation
cLpacity of both central and local institutions.
These institutional risks are baing addressed under
the Government's overall Administrative Reform
Program, including the establishment of adequate
incentives for civil servants. Moreover, technical
assistance and training vill also be provided under
the project to adequately strengthen the urban
agencies and minimize the risks resulting from
shortages  of  trained  staff.    There  are  also
political risks.  Delays in decision-making, for
political reasons, may postpone improvements in
lo_al resources mobilization and implementation of
the proposed policy reforms.   To minimize these
risks, clear political comitment to the proposed
urban  strategy  vas  obtained  during  project
preparation  and  confirmed  at  appraisal  and
negotiations.



- iii -
Summary Proiect Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Proiect ComPonent             Local    Foreln   Total   Base Cost Z
Priorit; Infrastructure Program       l4.4       33.1     47.5        77
Land Development Operations            0.6        2.2      2.8         5
Support to Construction SSE            0.2        0.8      1.0         2
Institutional Development              2.4        8.1     10.5        16
Total Base Cost                       17.6       44.2     61.8       100
Physical Contingencies                 1.7        5.3      7.0
Price Contingencies                    7.2        5.7     12.5
Total Project Cost                    26.5       55.2     81.7
Summary Financina Plan
(US$ million)
Source                             Local    Foreiv_  Total          2
Government                             5.3        2.9      8.2        10
IDA                                   17.2       39.8     57.0        70
UNDP                                   0,2        0.8      1.0         1
CCCE                                   3.5       10.5     14.0        17
FAC                                    0.3        1.2      1.5         2
Total                                 26.5       55.2     81.7       100
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
Catexory             FY91     FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95    FY96
Annual                8.5     18.3     17.1       8.5      4.0      0.6
Cumulative            8.5     26.8     43.9      52.4     56.4    57.0
Rate of Return:      Economic rates of return calculated for road improvement
components, representing about half of total project
cost, average 32Z with a maximum of 36Z and a minimum
of 12Z.  Economic evaluation of the other components
would be of limited significance.
Estimated
Proiect Comletions June 30, 1995



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Economic Background
1.01      The Government of the Second Republic, which came to power in 1984,
inherited a country which vas ln acute economic crisis and suffered from
dramatic infrastructure deficiencies, with most roads and public utilities
in a state of serious dierepair. As a result of poor economic management,
Guinea, which is a country vith a generous resource base, had become one of
the poorest countries in the world, with per capita income of less than
US$300 and extremely low living standards.   In an effort to reverse the
longstanding deterioration of the economy and redress financial imbalances,
the new regime launched a far-reaching stabilization and adjustment program
in late 1985. Its primary objectives vere to restore internal and external
balance, and to lay the foundations for sustained growth, based on reducing
the state's role, rehabilitating parapublic enterprises, encouraging private
initiative, and relying on market forces to correct price relationships.
1.02      Public investments were reoriented towards improving infrastructure
and  supporting  the  directly productive  sectors.    Rehabilitation   of
infrastructure in the transport (primary roads, ports and airports), water
and industrial sectors is being addressed by Government in the context of
varlous projects financed by IDA and other donors. Overall, the adjustment
program led to significant improvement of the country's economic performance
with a grovth of GDP in real terms of around 62 in 1987 and over 5X in 1988,
and a reduction of inflation from 72Z in 1986 to 272 in 1988.
B. Urbanization and the Economic Adiustment Process
1.03      Although  predominantly  rural,  Guinea  is  experiencing  rn id
urbanization.   The urban population tthose living in settlements of over
5,000 inhabitants) has grown from 450,000 inhabitants (14Z. of total
population) in 1960 to 1,650,000 inhabitants (25Z of total population) in
1989 and is expected to reach 4,500,000 inhabitants (40Z of total population)
by the year 2010. Due to the country's institutional and economic heritage,
over 602 of the urban population is concentrated Lu Conakry, the capital
city, the principal port and the major industrial and economic center. Over
60Z of all industrial enterprises are located lu the Conakry area and they
account for over 50Z of employment in the secondary sector. Proportions are
similar for commercial activities and public administration. Estimated at
1,100,000 inhabitants in 1989, Conakry's population is expected to grov at
an annual rate of 62 and to reach 2,000,000 inhabitants by the year 2,000.
1.04      The initial response of the private sector to the new economic
envirorment created by the adjustment program was encouraging. The bulk of
growth in manufactutring value added vas in effect generated by micro
enterprises operating in the informal urban sector. Available data suggest
that the number of such enterprises grew by 422 between early 1985 and early
1989. These enterprises accounted in 1987 for an estimated 18,000 jobs.
Recent surveys indicate further that employment is shifting from saturated
sectors such as transport and small trade towards manufacturing and
construction activities.



1.05      These developments had a very strong impact on Conakry's economy
which accommodated most of the newly created enterprises. Conakry's physical
environment vas also modif ied by significant infrastructure improvements vith
the political and economic capital receiving a substantial share of the
public investment program. The liberalization of the economy further created
strong incentives for local and expatriate Guinean householde to invest
massively in bouse construction, and the development of a buoyant housing
market is one of the most significant and visible results of the economic
recovery program. According to a recently completed (1988) Conakry Urban
Development Study, it is estimated that the number of occupied plots had
increased from 23,000 in 1983 to 37,000 in 1987 and the number of housing
units from 78,tao in 1983 to 110,000 in 1987. This implies that the housing
stock has increased by an annual average of 8,000 new units representing a
total increase of over 40Z in four years.  Arnual investment in housing
represents an estimated US$50 million (3Z of GDP: '. r Conakry alone, and over
USa$100 million (6Z of GDP) £f_r the who.e country. This housing boom has had
a strong impact on the development of the construction sector as vell as on
the cost of building materials and land values.
1.06       As a result of the lack of infrastructure, other cities found it
difficult to attract economic activities and vere confined to a secondary
role. Kankan, the country's second largest city, had a population of less
than 100,000 inhabitants in 1989. The new regional development strategy, (;ee
para. 1.16) is expected to lead to a more balanced population distribution
through a densification of the urban network. The number of centers of over
5,000 inhabitants is expected to grov from 40 in 1989 to about 80 by 2010.
In addition to Conakry, seven cities vould see their population exceed
100,000 lnhabitants by the year 2010s Kamsar, Kankan, Kindia, N'Zérékor4,
Kissidougou, Labé and Faranah.
C. Urban Service Deficiencies
1.07      When the Government of the Second Republic came to pover, Guinean
cities, including Conakry, vere ill-equipped to support the development of
economic activities.   After more than 25 years of severe neglect, most
infrastructure, when it existed, vas in a state of utter disrepair. Large
urban areas $acked basic services, and extremely poor 'living and vorking
conditions affected the productivity of urban activities. Housing had become
a critical social issue. Road investment had been insignificant over two
decades sad the 1984 network barely exceeded the one that existed at
independence. Lack of suitable road accesa deprived large portions of the
urban centers of the possibility of any collection service. Even in serviced
areas, collection vas at best erratic, snd only one-fifth of vaste produced
daily vas actually collected.   Public transport companies had virtually
ceased to operate ln Conakry, a crucial issue given the city's linear
pattern. Over 60Z of urban households vere deprived of access to safe vater.
Pover supply vas plagued by chronic breakdowns which severely affected the
functioning of economic activities.   Due to an almost total lack of
maintenance, most of the storm vater drainage system built in pre-indepen-
dence days had fallen into disrepair, a crucial problem given the 4,200 mm
annual average rainfall. This shortcoming resulted in severe flooding and
extended road blockages, and contributed to rapid deterioration of road
surfaces. This lack of systematic maintenance and the erratic functioning



- 3 -
of urban services had caused a steady deterioration of environmental
conditions which contributed significantly to Conakry's hazardous health
conditions, one of the vorst in Sub-Saharan Africa. This total disarray in
the provision of urban services vas clearly one of the most pressing social
and political challenges of the new Regime.
1.08      In a very limited time the Government of the Second Republic, with
the support of the international donor community, has initiated significant
improvements in Conakry's physical environment and identified ke7 actions to
strengthen secondary citios.   Priority roads and drainage rehabilitation
programs vere implemented as part of the First Vater and Sanitation Project
(870-GUI) and of the Conakry Urban Development Project (1466-GUI).  This
First Urban Project included also the strengthening of Conakry municipal
services (Unité de Pilotage des Services Urbains, UPSU) to carry out
systematic maintenance and repairs of the drainage network as vell as garbage
collection over most of the urbanized area (see para. 1.20). Additional urban
roads improvement programs vere carried out with the support of French Aid
(FAC and CCCE). SOGETRAG, a semi-public transport company, vas created in
1985 in association vith private partners.   Vith its 60 buses, SOGETRAG
carries over 100,000 passengers daily on its 43-kilometer network.   The
Second Vater Supply Project (1985-GUI), signed in May 1989, will finance the
addition of about 300 km of the vater distribution network including about
15,000 new connections, as vell as a far-reaching reform program to create
an appropriate institutional and pricing framework for the development of the
urban vater sector.
1.09      These various accomplishments brought about important and visible
improvements to Conakry's environmental conditions in a very short time span.
Continuous efforts are, however, indispensable to make up for the accumulated
backlogs resulting from the long neglect in the provision of essential urban
infrastructure and services in Conakry and secondary cities. Thus close to
70Z of Conakry's population still lives in under-serviced and over-densified
areas. Uncontrolled urban growth and lack of access to regularly developed
sites force households to crowd into the old central areas, where 582 of
households are tenants, or to haphazardly occupy the periurban areas,
increasing further the cost of implementing deferred infrastructure programs.
Conakry's infrastructure networks are severely underdeveloped: the ratio of
surfaced roads to population is only about one quarter of what is needed for
adequate coverage. The lack of appropriate links between the northern and the
southern coastal roads forces traffic to make long detours through busy
central areas, adding to congestion, increasing travel costs and hampering
economic activity.  The absence of appropriate traffic management creates
additional congestion costs.   The drainage network has not been properly
maintained and developed to service the new urbanized areas. This situation
leads to frequent floods which damage houses and businesses, inconvenience
residents, disrupt traffic and erode the road surface. Major improvements
under this project and a transportation project under preparation will
support Government efforts to further alleviate these obstacles.
1.10      The boost to the Guinean economy following the adjustment program
and the improvement of the interurban road network have triggered a new
dynamism for the secondary cities which is visible through the rapid growth
of activities at markets and bus and trucks terminals as vell as the increase
of motorized traffic vithin cities.   During the previous long period of
neglect, urban infrastructure in these secondary cities have suffered severe



- 4 -
degradation, to the point where lt can no longer support the development of
economic activities.   Central markets activity overflows ta neighboring
streets and creates serious health hazards due to the absence of drainage
and garbage collection. Bus and trucks terminals essential for the transport
of people and goode are overcrowded and inadequately designed.   Drainage
channels, when they exist, are not maintained and this contributes to the
frequent flooding of the central arers. In certain cities, the road network
is interrupted by creeks that isolate residential areas from the city center
and the roads leading to the rest of the country.
D. Government Strategy for the Urban Sector
1.11      The deficiencies in urban infrastructure and services which hamper
the efficient functioning of Guinean cities result not only from the lack of
appropriate investments.  They are also the consequence of the pervasive
weakness of the institutions responsible for the planning, provision and
maintenance of basic urban services.   Following the political changes in
1984, a serLes of reforms has been initiated, targeted in particular at the
improvement of urban planning and management practices, including the
progressive decentralization of the decision-making processes. Implementa-
tion of these reforms was supported by the assistance provided through the
First Urban Project and various related initiatives of the donor community.
These efforts allowed, inter alia, for the definition of a development
strategy for the urban and housing sectors which will be implemented vith the
support of the proposed Second Urban Project.
1.12      Vithin the overall objective of laying the foundation for sustained
growth through the development of private  initiatives,  the Government                    r
strategy for the urban sector alims at improving the support that efficient
cities can give to the creation of economic activities and to the generation
of employment opportunities. The implementation of that strategy relies on
a multi-faceted approach including the following policies:
(a) improved functioning of urban centers and the development of a more
balanced urban network in support of lmproved urban-rural linkages,
following the recommendations of the recently completed Regional
Development Plan (see para. 1.14 and 1.16);
(b) improved urban services delivery through the progressive decentra-
lization of urban management and the implementation of self-reliant
mechanisms for the provision and financing of these services (see
para. 1.19);
(c)  developuent of appropriate mechanisms to finance priority urban
investments identified by the Urban Master Plans (see para. 1.26);
(d)  improvement of the land tenure situation through the revision of
lanC legislatior and the strengthening of institutions in charge
of land management (see para. 1.29); and
(e) implementation of replicable housing and land development
operations of a scale sufficient to accommodate urban growth
through the creation of an appropriate framework to support the
dynamism of the private sector (see para. 1.32).



1. Urban Development Planning
1.13      Formerly a Department of the Ministry of Equipment and Urban
Affairs, the Ministry of Urban Planning and Nousing (MUH) vas created by a
Presidential Decree dated April 1, 1988.   MUH is responsible for the
preparatior and implementation of the Government's urban and housing policy.
the management of urban land and the execution of urban development
operations.   The internal organization of MUH is detailed in Annex 1-1.
Through its Directorate for Regional and Urban Planning (DATU), MUH la
responsible for the planning and programmang of urban development throughout
the country. With the support of EEC, DATU prepared the National Master Plan
as vell as Urban Master Plans for ll secondary cities. DATU also prepared
the Coeakry Urban Master Plan vith the support of the First Urban Project.
Two Divisions  in charge of Urban Development Operati.4s  and of Urban
Infrastructure vere created vithin the context of these programs to supervise
the design and implementation of urban projects in accordance vith existing
Master Plans.
1.14      The Conakry Urban Master Plan.   An Urban Master Plan for the
development of Conakry over the 1985-2010 period vas prepared by the UPUC
unit vithin DATU vith financing from the First Urban Project. The proposed
urbanisation options are as followst
(a)  Some activities presently concentrated in Tombo, at the outer
extreme of the peninsula, should be relocated to two new urban
subcenters to be created in order to induce a more balanced spatial
development of the peninsula and reduce congestion in the Tombo
area.   Au administrative center vould be located on the Kipé
Plateau, north of the Gbessia Airport, and an industrial area vould
be developed next to the existing OBR facilities, towards the
center of the peninsula.
<b) The primary and secondary road networks should be developed and
densified in order to provide access to these new centers and to
the nev housing sites to be developed in the northern and central
parts of the peninsula. In addition to the existing northern and
saouthern roads, the network should include a central road (Voie Le
Prince) as well as North-South links <transversales) vith an
average spacing of 2.5 kilometers. The total length of the paved
rcgd network should increase from the existing 80 kilometers to
about 200 kilometers by the year 2010.
(c)  Total urbanized area  is expected  to  increase  by  90  square
kilometers between 1985 and 2010.  This implies urbanization of
360 hectares on average each year over the period.
1.15      According to the urban development strategy supporting the Conakry
Urban Master Plan, available public resources should be allocated to two
major categories of investmentss (a) rehabilitation and upgrading of primary
infrastructure in the existing urbanized areas; and (b) extension of primary
infrastructure in the areas to be urbanized vithin the next decade.
1.16      Regional Development and Secondary Centers. As part of its program
of economic recovery, the Government of the Second Republic has confirmed its
regional development strategy for promoting economic growth through the



development of agricultural resources and the implementation of a balanced
network of regional centers which vill improve rural-urban linkages and
progressively reduce the excessive economic predominance of the capital city.
1.17      The  study  of  a  Regional  Developnment  Plan  <Schéma  National
d'Aménagement du Territoire) vas initiated by the CEPUR unit vithin MUN-DATU
in 1987 with the financial assistance of the EEC. The first draft of this
plan vas submitted to the Governzent in 1988 and is currently under review.
This Plan proposes the strengthening of the seven provincial capital citire.
The underlying regional development objectives are:
(a)  to  improve  the  economic  environment  supporting  agricultural
production through the provision of marketing, banking and storage
services in these cities;
(b) to develop the transport network in order to facilitate the
delivery of local food crops to the urban markets and the provision
of production inputs to rural areas; and
(c) the decentralization of public decision-making mechanisms.
1.18      EEC-financed studies include the preparation of Urban Master Plans
and the identification of priority action programs for key infrastructure
upgrading in il secondary cities (Kankan, N'zérékoré, Labé, Faranah, Boké-
Kamsar, Dubréka, Kindia, Kissidougou, Macenta, Fria and Mamou). EEC support
to regional development in Guinea includes the financing of pilot operations
tO strengthen the economic role of secondary cities. The Ministry of Plan
together vlth the State Secretary for Decentralization has also initiated,
vith UNDP support, a detailed survey of priority development programs for
Guinea's 34 préfectures. USAID is considering the possibility of financing
a development program for market towns.
2. The Provision and Financing of Urban Services
1.19      Local Governments and the Decentralization Process.  As part of
the series of political reforms initiated after the 1984 political changes,
Guinea has embarked on the progressive deconcentration and decentralization
of its territorial administration which constitutes one of the key elements
of the liberalization process presently underway.   A comprehensive ad-
ministrative reform process is underway under the supervision of the Ministry
for Administrative Reform wiith support and technical assistance from UNDP
(see Annex 1-2). This reform vas initiated by the Presidential Order of
1986 on Territorial Organization and Decentralized Entities.   This Order
defines a bottom to top organization from local entities (urban neighborhoods
and rural districts), to urban municipalities and rural communities, to
Préfectures. The first stage of this decentralization process concentrated
on the municipal reform of Conakry and, vith the exception of two rural
coemunities implemented with the support of French Aid (FAC), no decentral-
ized entity is operational yet in the rest of the country. The design and
implementation of the municipal reform of Conakry, are under the respon-
sibility of an Interministerial Steering Committee created by Presidential
Decree to follow up the preparation of documents regarding administrative,
financial and fiscal dimensions of that reform. Assistance for Conakry's
municipal reform was provided under the First Urban Project.



1.20      The City and the Communes of Conakry.   Following the three
Presidential Decrees signed on January 5, 1989, the former Province,
Préfectures and Sous-Préfectures of Conakry have been replaced by the City
of Conakry and five Communes (Tombo, Dixin, Ratoma, Matam, and Matoto). The
City of Conakry vill have a specific status and function both as a decon-
centrated level of the public administration and as a decentralized authority
vith an elected council. Consequently, the Governor of the City of Conakry
vill serve simultaneously as the representative of the Central Government
responsible for the management and coordination of the deconcentrated State
Services, and as the President of the executive authority constituted by a
future elected City Council. Documents defining and organizing the financial
and fiscal statue of these new local entities vere prepared by the Technical
Committee and avait Government approvel. The City and Communes of Conakry
vill be responsible for the provision of urban services (garbage collection,
roade and drainage maintenance) previously entrusted to the former Province.
The precise delimitation of the infrastructure belonging to the State, the
City and the Communes will be analyzed as part of the Second Urban Project.
This delimitation will have a major impact on construction and maintenance
expenditures and thus on the respective budgets of the City and the Communes.
French Aid (FAC) has agreed to finance a program to support the administra-
tive and financial organization of the new City and Communes of Conakry.
i'is program vill be implemented in close coordination vith the municipal
development component of the proposed project.
1.21      Local Resource Mobilization.   Pending the finalization of the
fiscal and financial status of the City and Communes of Conakry, the existing
Préfectures and Sous-Pr6fectures ate still operational during an interim
period; the operating budget of the City of Conakry remains thus very
dependent on Central Government funding as present local resources are
extremely weak when compared to other cities in the region.   Resources
collected in Conakry in 1985 amounted to only US$0.66 per capita, as compared
to US$3.53 for Bamako, US$5.25 for Ouagadougou and US$13.30 for Bujumbura.
These low yields are the combined result of several factorss  the under-
assessment of fiscal potential due to poor identification of taxpayers; an
inefficient billing system resulting from overly complex tax bases and rate
structures; and a low collection rate resulting from difficulties in
identifying taxpayers. These factors are aggravated in Guinea by the poor
organization and the lack of clear definition of responsibilities between tax
and accounting services as well as inefficient administrative, accounting and
control procedures.
1.22       Most local revenues consist of centrally set fiscal resources
collected by the deconcentrated services of the Ministry of Finance. These
fiscal resources include: the patente, a tax on professional activities, the
Contribution for Local Development (CDP) and various other taxes including
a share of the tax on vehicles (TUV). Local taxes and fees make up the rest
of municipal revenues, of which market fees represent the major part, since
revenues from City properties and user charges are extremely low. Recent
efforts have led to remarkable improvements vith total resources collected
groving from GF 241 (US$0.66) per capita in 1986 to an estimated GF 578
(US$1.22) per capita in 1988.  These imprevements result mainly from two
fiscal resources: (a) the patente (tax on professional activities), for which
assessment and collection vere substantially improved; and (b) the Contribu-
tion for Local Development, a head tax for which the rate increased from



- 8 -
GF 700 to GF 2,000 and which vas collected from close to 100 of eligible
taxpayers in 1988.
1.23       Effective start-up of the nev local entities should lead to a
continuous improvement of the resources collected by the City and the
Communes (market fees, user charges and revenues from public properties).
Substantial short-term improvements can also be expected from the tax on
professional  activities.    Medium-term  improvements  could  result  from:
(a) the rehabilitation of land and property taxation, following a pilot-
operation to identify land occupants implemented with the support of French
bilateral aid; and (b) a complete updating and reform of taxation on land and
on professional activities. The proposed project will support these short-
term improvements and medium-term objectives in order to increase income g0
that local governments can deliver the urban services for which they are
responsible.
1.24      Urban Services Provision and Financina.  A technical unit for the
provision of urban services, Unité de Pilotage des Services Urbains (UPSU),
vas created with the support of the First Urban Project to be responsible for
garbage collection and maintenance of road and drainage networks in Conakry.
UPfU is an administratively and budgetarily autonomous agency under the
supervision of the City of Conakry. UPSU's personnel is presently seconded
from Central, Provincial and Prefectoral Government agencies. Its internal
organization and staffing are detailed in Annez 1-2. UPSU's operating costs
have been covered by a grant of the Central Government (60Z) and by t) -
proceeds of IDA Credit 1466-GUI for the First Urban Project (40Z).  The
services provided by UPSU have greatly contributed to the amelioration of
Conakry's physical environment and have substantially improved the popula-
tion's living and working conditions. UPSU's institutional and operational
capacity vill be strengthened under the Urban Institutions Development
component of the proposed project. The appropriate institutional framework
which would allow for improved provision of urban services in secondary
cities vill also be identified as part of the proposed project.
1.25      The development of more self-reliant mechanisms to finance UPSU's
services is one of the critical urban challenges for the coming years. The
long-term financial viability of these services depends on a reduction of
operating costs, coupled with new sources of revenues.   Substantial cost
reduction might be expected from the contracting out of some of the unskilled
tasks to private enterprises.   In order to reduce the need for Central
Government subaidies, the financing of these urban services could gradually
be assumed by revenues from a specific new fee to be collected from the
beneficiaries of the services, and from an appropriate contribution from the
future budget of the City and Communes.  UPSU's budgeting and accounting
practices should also be substantially strengthened vithin the framework of
developing a clear budgetary allocation system. UPSU's budget should include
the necessary re6erves required for the depreciation and replacement of
equipment and other assets. It appears, however, that despite these efforts,
local resources alone will not be sufficient to finauce the costs of the
urban services provided by UPSU and that a declining subvention will remain
necessary for the short- to medium-term (3 to 5 years).



3. Urban Investnent Financini
1.26       The  inense backlog  in  basic  infrastructure  provision  and
maintenance, accumulated over 25 years, coupled vith pr.ority needs resulting
f rom the rapid growth of the urban population and of economic activity,
justify considerable efforts, in terms of investments, over the next decades
in order to improve the urban environment.   Improved mobilization of
municipal resources (tee para. 1.25) vill, at best, allow for the financing
of basic urban services such as garbage collection and road and drainage
maintenance. Priority urban investments vill thuB have to be financed either
through the direct contribution of households and enterprises or through the
Public Investment Budget.
1.27      Households and enterprises should pay directly for the cost of
billable services, such as vater and electricity, as vell as for the cost of
basic road and drainage infrastructure directly serving individual plots.
This financing principle implies the development of intermediary actors with
the borroving capacity to finance investments and the authority to recover
costs from users.   Rehabilitation of the institutitns in the vater and
electricity sector is presently underway.  The development of appropriate
institutional mechanisms is considered as part of the land development
strategy (see para. 1.32).
1.28      The Urban Investment Program.  An indicative program for priority
urban investments during the 1989-95 period vas established as part of the
Conakry Master Plan prepared vith financing from the First Urban Project
<para. 1.14).   The share of the Public Investment Program (PIP) to be
allocated to primary road and drainage infrastructure as part of total urban
investment vas estimated based on the folloving ratios, which are generally
considered appropriate for countries vith similar levels of development and
urbanization.   The distribution of urban investments between Conakry and
secondary cities results from the overall objective of implementing a more
balanced urban network while taking into account existing infrastructure
backlogs as vell as the limited absorptive capacity of urban centers outside
of the capital.
--   Total urban investment equivalent to 252 of PIP or 31 of GDP;
--   Primary road and drainage infrastructure equivalent to 20Z of total
urban investment or 5Z of PIP (a similar share is considered for
the 1990-92 PIP); and
--   Conakry's share and secondary cities' share equivalent respectively
to 702 and to 30Z of primary infrastructure investment.



- 10 -
Urban Investment Proaram for the 1989-95 Period
(in constant US$ M)
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
GDP                                1995  2079  2164  2251  2341  2435  2532
PIP                                 236   248   258   269   280   292   304
Total Urban Investment               60    62    6'    68    70    73    76
Urban Primary Infrastructure         12    13    13    14    14    15    16
Conakry'8 Primary Infrastructure      8      9     9    10    10    10    il
Sec. Cities Primary Infrastructure   4      4      4     4     4      5     5
The investment program for primary infrastructure during the 1989-95 period
amounts for Conakry to a total of US$66.3 M. including US$17.1 M for 1989-90
and US$49.2 M for 1991-95, and for the secondary cities to a total of US$28.4
M. Corresponding priority operations vere identified as part of the Conakry
Urban Master Plan (para. 1.14) and of the priority action programs for
secondary cities  (para.  1.18).    The permanent updating  of the urban
investment programs as vell   as the adjustment of service levels to reflect
projects' economic justification will be made possible by the strengthening
of MUH's planning and progr2mming capability to be financed under the
proposed project.
4. Land Tenure Improvement
1.29      Legal land tenure is governed by the Civil Code and legislation
dating from 1962 and 1974. These texts recognize the overall ownership by
the State of all national territory including land which has been built upon,
developed or cultivated by private users or legal entities. Article 543 of
the Civil Code specifies that all land in Guinea belongs to the State which
is its owner by law and that private land rights are limited to the ownership
of structure and crops developed by the legal occupants. In theory, urban
areas should be covered by subdivision plans (plans de lotissement) defining
public spaces and individual plots which can be granted for private
construction. In practice, subdivision plans cover approximately one-third
of all urbanized areas in Conakry. As part of the physical impLementation
of these subdivision plans, usually limited to plot demarcation, one-third
of the plots were usually granted to the customary land occupants and the
other two-thirds allocated by Government to new urban households. Due to the
inadequate resources of the Lands and Surveys Departments, the implementation
of new subdivision operations has virtually stopped since 1986.   As a
consequence, access to land occurs through the densification of existing
settlements or through informal and unregistered arrangements between
newcomers and the customary occupants of the periurban areas.
1.30      Within this context, three types of land tenure situation presently
coexists
(a)  A limited number of land titles vere granted during the colonial
era, but this practice vas discontinued at Independence.  These
land titles are registered in the Land Book which, in theory,



- il -
should be kept and updated by the Lands Directorate of the Ministry
of Urban Planning and Housing.
(b)  Provisional occupancy permits (arrêtés d'occupation provisoire)
vere granted to the recipients of plots located vithin subdivision
plans.   These temporary permits can be converted to permanent
occupancy  permits   (arrêtés  d'occupation  définitive)  after
appropriate plot development vithin a three-year time limit.
Permanent occupancy permits recognize the ownership of property
improvements vithout any tUme limit.   Temporary and permanent
occupancy permits, which constitute the only forma of legal tenure
since Independence, are registered iu a special land roster kept
by the Lands Directorate.
(c)  Illegal settlements represent the most frequent form of urban land
occupancy and result from informal and unregistered financial
arrangements with customary occupants. The rapid construction of
minimum housing structures, preferably in concrete, is the only way
for the occupant to obtain occupancy rights from the Lands
Administration, the local community and even the customary seller
of the plot.
Out of a total residential area of 5,925 ha in Conakry in 1985, 2,000 ha had
been conventionally developed, 1,335 ha consisted of traditional areas which
had been officially restructured, and the remaining 2,590 ha had been
irregularly subdivided following informal arrangements. The latter area has
substantially increased in recent years, vith the vast majority of the 4,000
new plots and 200 hectares of urban land being developed annually outside of
any planning control.
1.31      In addition to ongoing reforms, the Government has initiated the
updating and revision of legislation governing land management.   Several
possibilities are presently considered, including a progressive and limited
return to land titles.   The State ownership of national territory, as
provided by the Civil Code, is currently not in question.  The new legal
mechanisms considered would lead to the transformation of occupancy permits
into more secure land rights (leaseholds, emphythéoses or droits de
superficie) allowing for their free transfer as well as for the use of
construction or improvement as collateral for mortgage loans. A program to
strengthen the capacity of the Lands Department to produce, maintain and
update land documentation i. a prerequisite to any improvement of urban land
management.  French Aid (FAC) has agreed to finance a pilot operation to
revise land documentation vithin Tombo, the city's old business district.
The results of this pilot operation will facilitate the identification of a
feasible program to improve land documentation for the rest of Conakry and
secondary cities.   This program will include the strengthening of land
management institutions as well as the implementation of streamlined
registration and transfer procedures for land rights and occupancy permits.
5. Housina and Land Development Strategy
1.32      The overall objective of the Government Housing and Land Develop-
ment Strategy is to develop an appropriate regulatory framework allowing for
an increase in formally recognized housing production in order to meet
growing urban demand, and significant improvement in the functioning of the



- 12 -
housing market. Recognizing that the bulk of housing production and land
development results from the private initiative of informal actors, the
Government has decided to implement a new housing strategy relying on the
dynamism of the private sector while developing appropriate procedures to
integrate individual actions vithin coherent and efficient land development
operations and provide households vith access to urban services and land
tenure security.
1.33        The Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing (MUR) has prepared
detailed implementation for this new housing and land development strategy
as part of a program financed by UNDP, for which the Bank vas the executing
agency (GUI187/O10). The nev housing policy vill rely on four interrelated
principless
(a)  Public intervention  should concentrate, as a priority, on the
development of replicable operations to meet existing demand.
Public intervention in these land development operations should be
limited to the provision of primary and secondary infrastructure.
These infrastructure networks vill set the boundaries for large
blocks of about 10 ha vithin which planning regulation should be
minimal.
(b   The internal subdivision and infrastructure servicing of these
large blocks should be entrusted to a variety of developers,
private, semipublic or public including local governments,
neighborhood committees and homebuilders associations.
(c) The rights and obligations of the developers vill be detailed in
a development authorization prepared by MWR. This authorization
vll include a land grant and specify land management procedures
to be followed by the developer.   The authorization vill also
specify the development fee to be paid by the developer to allow
for secondary infrastructure cost recovery and replicability of the
operation. Within this contract, the developers vill be free to
determine subdivision layout and infrastructure servicing. This
vill favor and encourage broad participation in planning and
defining priorities for housing and land development.
(d)  The developers will deliver certificates alloving purchasers of
plots to formalize their tenure status and apply for a legal land
title.
E. Urban Sector Strategy Support
1.34      Among its priority objectives, the Government is seeking donor
community assistance to implement its urban strategy, support policy reforms
and institutional development, and assist in the financing of priority urban
investments. The potential role to be played by the urban sector vithin the
Guinean economy has elicited increasing interest from other donors. UNDP,
CCCE, and FAC have agreed to participate in the financing of the proposed
project.   AfDB is villing to consider the possibility of financing an
additional tranche of roads improvement in Conakry as part of ADF6 (1991-93).
EEC is villing to consider the continuation of its program to improve the
functioning of secondary cities as part of the new EDF (effective in 1991).
USAID is considering the possibility of financing market improvements in



- 13 -
secondary cities. KfW has financed an engineering study for the improvement
of Conakry landfill and is villing to consider the possibility of financing
the related worke.  UNICEF and RWSG are in the process of identifying a
program to improve sanitation at the neighborhood level.
1.35      Bank Group Experience in the Sector. Direct Bank Group involvement
in the urban sector began vith Credit 1466-GUI which vas approved in January
1984 and subsequently amended in June 1987 in order to adjust implementation
arrangements to the new institutional environment and increase the Credit
amount from an original US$10.7 M to a revised US$15.2 M. The objectives of
the Conakry Urban Development Project vere to (a) strengthen the ability of
central and local Government institutions to proficiently plan, coordinate,
and control urban growth in the Greater Conakry area; (b) establish the basic
mechanisms for adequate funding cf urban services; and (c) improve the
provision of these basic urban services. The additional objectives of the
supplemental financing vere to improve living and working conditions in key
areas of Conakry and support local Government reform. After initial delays
and difficulties, the implementation of the restructured project is on
schedule  and proceeding  satisfactorily.    This  project  allowed  for a
significant improvement of Conakry's environnent, fully met its institutional
development objectives, and proved instrumental in assisting the Govertment
in the preparation of its strategy for the development of the urban sector.
The UNDP-financed housing policy study, for which the Bank vas the executing
agency (GUI/871010), further allowed for a detailed definition of the new
housing and land development strategy which vill be implemented vith the
support of the proposed project.
1.36      Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.  Given the importance of the
country's urban areas in the economic recovery program, and their pivotal
role in the development procass, it is vital to sustain support for the
Government's effort to efficiently implement major sector reforms and to
enhance the capacity of urban centers to contribute to future growth. Such
continuous support is particularly warranted in view of the Government's far-
reaching strategy to improve the functioning of urban centers through a
multi-faceted approach of: (a) development of a more balanced urban network
in support of regional development; (b) progressive decentralization of urban
management; (c) appropriate financing mechanisms for urban investments;
(d) improved management of land resources; and (e) implementation of
replicable land development operations.
Il. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Objectives and Description
2.01      Building upon the experience acquired through the implementation
of the Piret Urban Project, the primary objective of the proposed project
vill be to assist Government in implementing its urban strategy and to
consolidate the basis for sustainable urban development.   The proposed
project will fit vithin the overall program for improving Guinea's key
economic infrastructure that the Bank Group and other donors have agreed to
finance in support of the country's recovery efforts. The functioning of
Conakry and secondary cities as centers of economic growth vill be improved
through a three-pronged approach of infrastructure upgrading, institutional



- 14 -
strengthening ant local resource mobilization.  The project vill also supFort
the implementatiou of the Government's new policy for housing and land
development.   By strengthening the role of private and local developers
vithin the framework of replicable operations, this policy ls designed to
increase formal production of housing sites in order to meet groving demand,
including that of the poorer segments of the papulation nov settled lu
uncontrolled and under-serviced areas.   The project vill also support
Conakry's newly created municipal institutions by improving local resource
mobilization and the management and provision of urban services.   Urban
poverty vill be alleviated and urban employment stimulated as a result of the
improvement of the urban economic and physical environment which vill foster
the development of small enterprises.  By its mzl1ti-faceted approach, the
proposed project vill pave the way for future lending designed to improve the
environment at the neighborhood level through appropriate support for local
participation in the decentralization and liberalization process underway in
Guinea.
2.02      The proposed project includes:  (a) financing of a priority urban
tufrastructure program in Conakry and selected secondary cities; (b) imple-
mentation of a 200-ha land development operation following the institutional
and financial mechanisms proposed in the new housing and land development
strategy; (c) continuation of the program to assist the development of small
construction enterprises launched under the First Urban Project; and
(d) strengthening of urban institutions, including support for the
improvement of local resource mobilization and urban Lervices provision.
These components are summarized below and described in detail in Annex 2.1.
2.03      The Priority Urban Infrastructure Uoaradina Program vill consist
of civil vorks to complement, upgrade and rehabilitate priority urban
infrastructure in the major urban centers.   This program includes four
components:
(a)  Strengthening of the primary road network in Conakry through the
improvement of key links:
(i)     upgrading of Coyah Road to continue the existing Fidel
Castro expressway, for about 5.8 km eastward of the
Gbessia Airport, consisting of tvo 7.5-meter double-lane
ways vith median strip;
(ii)     upgrading of the Hamdallaye-Bellevue Road to increase its
existing  capacity,   consisting  of  two   7.5 meter
double-lane ways with median strip on about 2.1 km, the
reconstruction of the Bellevue Bridge to increase its
vidth to four lanes; and the upgrading and redesign of
four intersections;
(iii)     rehabilitation  of  Le  Prince  Road  from  Hamdallaye
intersection to its intersection with Road T2. The first
section, Hamdallaye to Tl (about 0.5 km), consists of two
7.5-meter double-lane ways vith median strip. From Tl
to T2 (about 2.8 km), a 7.5-meter double-lane way vill
be provided;



- 15 -
(iv)     construction of Road Tl consisting of a 14m four-lane
road vithout median strip <about 2.8 km);
<v)     clearing of the rights-of-way for Road T2 (about 5.0 km);
(vi)     rehabilitation of the northern coastal road between the
Kaporo bridge and Road T4 (Lambanyi) including realign-
ment of about 4.7 km of roadway and construction of two
bridges;
(vii)     extension of Road T4 through the nev land development
operation to be implemented as part of the proposed
project (see 2.04 below); and
(viii)     compensation and resettlement of households currently
occupying the rights-of-way of the various roads to be
rehabilitated as part of the proposed project.
(b) Rehabilitation of Conakry's drainaRe network covering f ive drainage
basins:
Ci)     Coronthie South (about 45 ha), including the rehabilita-
tion of about 1.2 km of existing drains and construction
of about 4.1 km of new collector drains and one outlet;
Cii)     railway station area (about 40 ha), including about 0.6
km of existing drains and the construction of 3.2 km of
coliectors and tvo outlets;
<iii)     Tombo area (about 13 ha), including the rehabilitation
cf about 0.8 km of collectors and two outlets;
(iv)     Kipe school area (about 23 ha) including about 0.8 km of
collectors and two outlets; and
(v)     University area (about 60 ha) including the rehabilita-
tion of about 0.5 km of existing drainage network, the
reconstruction of an existing canal about 0.8 km long,
and the construction of ocean outlets.
(c)  Priority infrastructure in the secondary cities:
This subcomponent vill consist of the financing of key infrastruc-
ture upgrading in the four regional centers (Xindia, Labd, Kankan,
and N'Z6rekor4) folloving the priorities identified by the EEC-
financed studies (see para. 1.18). The design of this subcomponent
vill be kept flexible and could be revised on common agreement.
The infrastructure to be upgraded in the four regional centers
will bes
li)     Kindia:  rehabilitation of access roads to the neighbor-
hoods of Kenende and Voudi;



- 16 -
(ii)     Labés construction of a secondary and tertiary drainage
network in the town center and the recalibration and
protection of the creeks encircling the downtown area;
tiii)     Kankan:  rehabilitation of a primary rainvater drain and
of a road linking major residential areas to the city
center; and
(iv)     N'Zérékoré:  rehabilitation of a market and a bus and
trucks terminal.
(d) Strengthening of MUH units responsible for planning, design and
supervision of the works described aboves
ti)     technical assistance and on-the-job training to reinforce
DATU's Urban Infraptructure Division and enable it to
a) prepare detailed engineering and bidding documents and
supervise civil works financed through the project; and
b) prepare feasibility and engineering studies, as vell
as environmental assessments for a follow-up infrastruc-
ture project in Conakry; and
(ii)     technical assistance and on-the-job training to permit
DATU's planning section to prepare projects for secondary
cities and conduct training programs in urban management
for local Government officials and staff.
2.04      The Housing and Land Development Component will include the
implementation of a first 200-ha land development operation, in Conakry,
following the financing and institutional proposals of the recently completed
housing policy study (see para. 1.32). That study identified procedures and
mechanisms to implement the Government's strategy to increase formally
recognized housing production through subdivision and development of urban
land, to rationalize unregulated urban growth through the creation of a
regulatory framework for urban planning and land market operations, and to
maximize the number of households vith access to security of tenure, housing
and urban servicxs. The implementation of this policy is based on replicable
land development operations relying on procedures which vill limit public
sector involvement to construction of secondary infrastructure, whose costs
vili be fully recovered, and vill encourage a variety of public, semipublic
and private developers to undertake subdivision and tertiary works vithin
the blocks delimited by the secondary infrastructure network.
2.05      In order to launch this new strategy for urban land development,
which should allow the annual self-financed creation of about 200 ha of
serviced land or the equivalent of 4,000 to 5,000 plots, and should meet
expected demand in Conakry once it has gotten up to speed (4-5 years), three
steps are required and vill be supported under the proposed projects
(a) adoption of the necessary  procedures, program and site plan; (b) cons-
truction of secondary infrastructure; and (c) subdivision and servicing of
blocks, including cost recovery and formal recognition of occupants' land
tenure rights. At negotiation, agreement vas reached that this component
vill be implemented according to a detailed action plan (see Annex 2-2).



- 17 -
(a) The Adoption of Procedures, Program, and Master Plan implies the
folloving actions:
(i)      signing of a Presidential Order creating a land servicing
fee and a revolving fund for land servicing operations,
and of a Presidential Decree describing the functioning
of the land servicing fee and the revolving fund for land
servicing operations;
(l1)      signing of an Order creating a Steering Coimmittee on
Urban  Land  Development  responsible  for  defining
procedures required to carry out the land development
program, whose membership vill include the MUH, the
Ministries of Finance, Interior and Plan, the City of
Conakry, Soloprimo, and the utility companies;
(iii)      preparation by the Ministry  (DATU)  of detailed en-
gineering for the secondary infrastructure of the firet
200-ha operation on the Lambanyi-Kobaya site, along with
cost estimates for civil vorks, sites for public space,
and minimal regulations governing subdivision of the
blocks into lots; and
(iv)      approval by the Steering Committee of the program, plan
and development strategy for this 200-ha operation,
setting of the rates of the land servicing fees to be
charged the developers, setting out of procedures for
selecting developers who vill participate. The latter
vill be subject to a proviso that at least one third of
the blocks' area be reserved for private developers.
The proposed project vill help finance the cost of the technical assistance
required to help finalize implementation procedures, draft legal documents,
and design detailed infrastructure engineering as vell as the plan, program,
and development strategy for the first 200-ha land development operatirn.
At negotiations, atreement vas reached vith the Government that the approva.tl
of the progran, plan, and development strategy for the 200-ha operation be
a condition of disbursement for the financing of the infrastructure networks
servicing that operation.
(b) The Implementation of Secondary Infrastructure Networks which vill
delineate and support the land development operations relies on the
folloving actions:
(i)     signing of agreements between the Government (MUR), the
City of Conakry and the utility companies concerning the
execution of civil vorks for roads and drainage and the
provision of vater and electricity;
(ii)     establishment of a technical vorking group vithin MUH
(DATU) responsible for coordination and supervision of
infrastructure and servicing civil works; and
(iii)     call for bids folloving public contract provisions for
vorks to execute a first phase of 200 ha on the Lambanyi-



- 18 -
Kobaya site, including the construction of about 8.5 km
of paved roads, about 9 km of earth drains and of 22
culverts for a total cost estimated at GF 975 million
(US$1.5 M equivalent).
The proposed project vill finance the costs of the secondary roade and
drainage networks for the 200-ha land development operation at Lambanyi-
Kobaya.
(c) Subdivision and Servicing of Blocks
(i)     publication by MUH of the  list  of approved block
developers (Government/City/ Soloprimo) and definition
of land development regulations applicable to developers
and plot occupants;
(ii)     signing by the Minister in charge of Urban Development
of development authorization for the various blocks
describing the rights and obligations of developers
concerning land management as vell as financial and
technical matters;
(iii)     internal servicing and subdivision of the blocks by the
developers, according to the regulations accompanying
the development authorization, but leaving the developers
free to choose planning standards, block layouts, and
infrastructure service levels, as well as resale
conditions whether to individuals, or groups (housing
societies or neighborhood associations); and
siv)     awarding by the developers of adequate documentation to
allow residents to apply for legal tenure documents from
DAFO.
The proposed project vill finance the cost of the technical assistance and
training required to strengthen the agencies involved in the implementation
of the new land development strategy. Assistance vill be provided to DATU
for preparation of strategy and studies and supervision of works; to
Soloprimo for technical and commercial procedures; to the City of Conakry for
setup of a basic infrastructure coutstruction section; and to DAFO for
improvement of land documents management, in relationship vith the assistance
provided by the French bilateral aid (FAC). The project vill also finance
a feasibility study for the development of a network of small sa-ings and
loans agencies catering to homebuilders' needs in conjunction vit'. a study
to develop savings accounts within post offices.
2.06      The Small Construction Enternrises Component vill continue support
to a program to help small construction enterprises initiated under the First
Urban Project in conjunction vith a Canadian NGO (CECI).   The  program
includes ongoing management and accounting training, creation of a technical
and commercial data base, and other specific interventions as required. The
continuation of this program, to be defined through consultation vith the
enterprises it is intended to assist, including those belonging to the newly
formed National Union of Guinean Entrepreneurs (UNEG-BTP, established July
1989), vill also analyze requirements for the creation of a mutual guarantee



- 19 -
fund to facilitate access to bonding for contract start-up advance.  This
component vill also include the preparation of a program to foster the
development of productive employment opportunities for the urban youth.
2.07      The Urban Institutions Development Component vill include three
subcomponents designeds  (a) to support Conakry's nevly created municipal
institutions; (b) to improve urban management in Secondary Cities; and (c) to
strengthen MUH's project management capability.
2.08      The  Conakry  Municipal  Development  Subcomponent  vill  support
improvements in local resource mobilization and in the functioning and
financing of UPSU which is responsible for most urban services in Conakry
including street cleaning, vaste collection, drain and severage maintenance.
This component will also support the setup and operation of administrative
units responsible for local tax collection vithin the new municipal fiscal
and financial framevork.   Support included in the proposed Second Urban
Project for mobilization of local resources for the city and the UPSU should
allow a phased vithdrawal by the Government, including uùe of the IDA Credit,
from participation in UPSU's operating budget.   This Conakry Municipal
Development  subcomponent comprises  three main programss    (a) resource
mobilization for Conakry; (b) management support to UPSU; and (c) institu-
tional and financial support for the development of Conakry's new services.
%a) Resource Mobilization for Conakry vill compriset
ti)     Strengthening of the city's financial services, in both
budgeting and accounting functions and taxes assessment,
billing and recovery procedures, by appointment of two
technical assistants. One vill assist the director of
finant-ial services in the preparation and execution of
the Xddget, setting up accounting procedures, and
prepa *ng final accounts.   The second assistant vill
vork vith the Tax and Treasury staff in order to improve
coordination between the city staff and these central
units in all aspects of tax vork. This assistant vill
also propose and encourage adoption of techniques and
procedures which could improve tax billing and recovery
across various income sources (tax rolls, tax information
system, survey of taxpayers, accounts receivable and
recovery follow-up).
(ii)     Logistic  support  to  the  units  involved  in  income
collection.
(iii)     Training  for  financial  management  and  municipal
accounting (see Annex 2-1).
(iv)     Other assistance tailored to specific needs, such as
identification of taxable entities, preparation and
maintenance of rolls using a base map prepared from an
aerial survey mosaic financed under the project, and
surveys to estimate baseline rental values for land taxes
assessment.



- 20 -
(b)  Suy>ort to imirove the manatement of UPSU's services vill comprise
four activitiess
(1)     An organizational study which vill:
- - determine the most appropriate statue for UPSU in
the framework of the nev municipal institutions
while taking into account the need for maintaining
1t8 financial and legal autonomy;
-- assess staff capabilities, review pay scales,
identify civil service staff who should be
transferred to UPSU given its new statue, along
vith the training they vill need;
-- propose an internal reorganization which vill
optimize the allocation of human and other resources
to the tasks for vhich UPSU la responsible, and
which vill allow subcontracting of labor-intensive
tasks for which UPSU is less qualified;
--   determine the cost of services rendered in real
terms as a function of service levels delivered in
administrative,    residential   and   low-income
neighborhoods, as vell as vaste disposal services
performed for industrial and commercial clients and
at markets; and
-- recommend appropriate coat recovery methods for
UPSU's owva resources (billing of industrial and
commercial clients, other users' fees).
(ii)     Training in management and accounting and in other areas
to be identified in the organizational study.
(iii)     Minor equipment purchases to strengthen UPSU's capacity
to deliver services whose costs can be charged directly
to beneficiaries.
(iv)     Operational budget support on a decreasing annual basis
vithin the context of assistance for resource mobiliza-
tion described above.
The amount of proposed IDA credit funds allocated  to UPSU's
operational budget support vill be determined each year as a
fuaction ofs
(a)  Increase in the City's financial commitment to UPSU, as
indicated by the amount of its budgetary allocation of
normal municipal revenues to UPSU, and its .ctual
transfer of these funds to UPSU's budget.
(b)  Increase in UPSU's ability to mobilize its own resources
based on cost recovery charges to beneficiaries of its
industrial and commercial services.



- 21 -
Annual Governrent subventions to close the financing gap should
decrease over the project period and vill be partially financed out
of IDA funds approximately as followvs   US$200,000 in 1991,
US$150,000 in 1992, US$100,000 in 1993, and US$50,000 in 1994.
(c) Institutional and Financial Strengthenina of Conakry's New
Citylr,omune Structures. This subcomponent vill involve consultant
expertise and support in the areas of:
(i)     Municipal tax reform proposals  (tax on professional
activities, property tax), especially updating of tax
brackets and rates and simplifying their management.
(ii)     Clarification of the division of responsibilities for the
construction and periodic and routine maintenance of road
and drainage networks (rainwater and vaste water) as
betveen the Government, the City and the Conmmunes.
(iii)     Procedures for transfer of resources from Government to
its deconcentrated branches at the local government
level.
<iv)     Procedures for introducing new municipal taxes and fees,
in particular, land servicing and public sanitation
taxation.
2.09      In order to allow for the financing of this subcomponent through
credit funde supporting the Second Urban Project, the Government confirmed
durinR negotiations its agreement to take the folloving steps:
(a) mai-tain UPSU's administrative and budgetary autonomy;
(b) Government's agreement with the UPSU financing plan through 1995
based on progressive withdraval of IDA credit support for its
operating budget as described in para. 2.08 above;
(c) Government's agreement that the annual review of UPSU's financing
plan vill be a condition of disbursement for the financing of
UPSU's operating costs, this review vill include the verification
of the effective transfer of both the City's contribution and the
Government participation to UPSU's budget;
(d) Presidential approval and signature of the Order establishing the
financial and fiscal systems of the City and the Comnnes of
Conakry; and
(e) Presidential approval and signature of the Order establishing the
organization and functioning of the City Council of Conakry.
2.10      The Secondary Cities Urban Management Improvement Subcomponent
vill include a program cf technical assistance and training to strengthen
the capacity of local urban institutions to provide and finance basic urban
services. This program vill be implemented in the four regional centers in



- 22 -
close coordination with the infrastructure upgrading works financed by the
project (see para. 2.03) and concentrate on the following aspects of urban
management%
(a) the strengthening of local institutions responsible for the
provision, management and maintenance of basic urban services such
as markets, bus and truck terminals, garbage collection, storm
water drainage;
(b) the improvement of local resource mobilization to support the
financing and recover the costs of these services; and
(c) the development of simplified local budget and accountir*g
procedures.
2.11      The strengthening of MUH's proiect management capability subcom-
ponent vill include the technical assistance and training required:
(a)  to 8trengthen units vithin DATU services responsible for the
planning, design and supervision of the works tO be financed under
the project's infrastructure upgrading (para. 2.03) and land
development operation components (para. 2.04);
(b) to strengthen MUH's capacity to integrate environmental protection
concerns into project design and to implement appropriate resettle-
ment programs;
(c) to identify, justify economically, and design priority infrastruc-
ture upgrading operations (including traffic management in Conakry)
to be implemented as part of follow-up operations to be financed
with the assistance of the Bank group and other donors; and
(d) to identify appropriate action programs to better the immediate
environment at the neighborhood level through enhanced participa-
tion of local communitiec and to improve urban health through the
preparation of appropriate local planning guidelines.
B. Project Costs and Financing
2.12      Total project cost is estimated at US$63.0 M excluding taxes and
duties.   Base costs are in June 1989 prices as determined by technical
studies financed through the First Urban Project and recent contracts signed
for technical assistance and civil works in other projects. The project vill
be executed over the six-year period 1990-95. Physical and price contingen-
cies are included.   Detailed project costs are provided in Annex 2-4.
Allowances for price contingencies have been assumed using the folloving
annual price increases2
Annual Price Increases (X)
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Foreign Exchange        -0.4    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9
Local Currency          20.0   17.0   14.0   10.0    6.0    6.0    6.0



- 23 -
Estimated Costs
(US$ million)
Proiect Component            Local    Foreign   Total   Base Cost Z
Priority Infrastructure Program      14.4       33.1     47.5       77
Land Development Operations            0.6       2.2      2.8        5
Support to Construction SSE           0.2        0.8      1.0        2
Institutional Development             2.4        8.1     10.5       16
Total Base Cost                      17.6       44.2     61.8      100
Physical Contingencies                1.7        5.3      7.0
Price Contingencies                   7.2        5.7     12.9
Total Project Cost                   26.5       55.2     81.7
2.13      An IDA credit of US$57 M is proposed to support the Second Urban
Project.  The United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the French Caisse
Centrale de Coopération Economique (CCCE), and the French Fonds d'Aide à la
Coopération (FAC) have expressed their willingness to cofinance the proposed
project in amounts equivalent to about US$1 M, US$14 M, and US$1.5 M,
respectively.   UNDP will finance parts of the costs of the Support to
Construction SSE and Institutional Development components. CCCE vill finance
parts of the cost of the Priority Infrastructure Program, dealing with the
contintuation of the expressvay east of Gbessia Airport.  FAC will finance
parts of the cost of the Institutional Development Component dealing with
support to the City of Conakry.   The Government contribution vill be
equivalent to US$8.2 M, and funds equivalent to US$2 M have already been
earmarked in the 1990 budget in order to cover land compensation for road
rights-of-way required for the first phase of road improvement in the
proposed project.   The financing plan is summarized below and detailed
further in Annex 2-4.
Summary Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Source                            Local   Foreign   Total         Z
Government                            5.3        2.9      2.2       10
IDA                                  17.2       39.8     57.0       70
UNDP                                   0.2       0.8      1.0        1
CCCE                                   3.5      10.5     14.0       17
FAC                                    0.3       1.2      1.5        2
Total                                26.5       55.2    81.7       100



- 24 -
C. Proiect Imilementation
2.14      Arrangements  for project implementation make use of existing
institutions and are similar to those which vorked auccessfully during
execution of the First Urban Project. The Ministry (MUB) vill be responsible
for overall project management, project supervision, and administrative and
financial coordination.   The project director vill be assisted by an
administrative and financial coordinator responsible for supervision of
procurement procedures, financial commitments, preparation of disbursement
requests, and project accouats. The project unit vill also be responsible
for preparing quarterly reports coverir.g progress on all project components.
Appointment of the project director and administrative and financial
coordinator vill be made vith the approval of the Bank Group.
2.15      The Ministry vill be directly responsible for implementation of
the civil vorks compouent to improve urban infrastructure.   Civil vorks
programs in Conakry vill be carried out in close collaboration vith the
munLcipal services staff, and in the secondary centers vith the prefectures
and deconcentrated Government services, so as to facilitate introduction of
efficient procedures for maintenance of the infrastructure to be provided,
as well as overall improvements in municipal management (see 2.03 (d) above).
2.16      The creation of the Steering Committee for Urban Land Development
and the revolving account for urban land serviciri (pare. 2.05 (a)) vill be
required as a condition of Credit effectiveness. The Ministry (MUR) vill be
responsible for the supervision and coordination of vorks to complete the
secondary infrastructure network for the land development operation, and
under the authority of the Steering Committee, for supervision of block
subdivision vorks. The City of Conakry vill be responsible for the execution
of the component to strengthen UPSU as vell as its omn services in close
cooperation vith the interministerial codmission in charge of preparing the
new administrative structure for Conakry.   The subcomponent concerning
financial and fiscal improvements for Conakry vill be carried out vith the
active participation of the relevant sections in the Ministry of Finance
(Impôts et Trésor).
2.17      Technical Assistance and Training.  The project vill finance the
services of consultants which vill provide technical assistance and training
to develop and strengthen urban institutions, including MUR, City of Conakry,
UPSU, and local services of Secondary Cities. Consultants vill also be hired
to assist MUR vith construction supervision for vorks financed under the
project and engineering design for subsequent financing by the Bank or other
donors. Arrangements similar to those which vorked successfully during the
First Urban Project vill be used to permit consultants, vorking out of
offices in the Ministry, to carry out technical studies, prepare bidding
documents, and supervise civil vorks while conducting on-the-job training of
their counterparts. Efforts vill also be made during project implementation
to encourage the development of domestic consulting firms vorking either
alone or in combination vith foreign firme.
D. Procurement
2.18      All major civil vorks financed by IDA for infrastructure improve-
ment in Conakry and in the secondary cities, including civil vorks for
infrastructure in the 200-ha land development area, totalling US$41.7 M, vill



- 25 -
be carried out through contracte awarded on the basis of ICB ln accordance
vith Bank Guidelines on procurement.   Materials and equipment vill be
procured as followst (a) equipment and materials grouped into lots exceeding
US$0.2 M vill be procured through ICB; 'b) equipment and materials which
cannot be grouped into US$0.2 M lots for a total estimated cost not to exceed
US$0.7 M vill be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank in
which foreign suppliers will be allowed to bid; and (c) small items of
equipment costing less than US$50,000 each for a total amount not exceeding
US$0.3 M vill be procured through local shopping after quotations from at
least three suppliers.   Miscellaneous supplies including fuel, gasoline,
lubricants and spare parts for a total of USS1.3 M will be procured folloving
local procedures which ensure that the goods are purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery.   Consultants' services vill be procured in accordance vith IDA
Guidelines. All contracta vith a value of US$300,000 or more vill be subject
to prior review by the Bank, and auy variation in contracta exceeding 102
vill be reviewed by the Barv prior to notification. Procurement procedures
vere reviewed and confirmed at negotiations.
Procurement Arrangements
(IDA Share in Parentheses)
(US$ million)
Catexorv                             ---- Procurement Method----
ICB     LCB     Other   NIA       Total
1.  Civil Works                      41.7      --     14.6    3.7       60.0
(37.8)   (--)     (--)   (--)    (37.8)
2. Materials and Equipment            1.7    0.6       0.5      --       2.8
(1.7)  (0.6)    (0.3)   (--)      (2.6)
3.  Operating Costs                    --      --      1.3      --       1.3
(--)   C--)    (0.5)   (--)      (0.5)
4.  Consultants and Training           --      --     17.6      --      17.6
Total  roc  Ct  0 (16 31)   (-   (16.1)
Total Project Cost               43.4    0.6      34.0    3.7       81.7
IDA                             fsL&   L (69                 ;     1:



- 26 -
E. Disbursements
2.19      Diabursements from the credit vill be made against applications
based on contracts eligible for IDA financing as follows.
Allocation and Disbursemen Cateaories
Cateaory                             Credit Allocation      ExPenditures
(US$ million)      te be Financed
1. Civil Vorks for:
(a)  Conakry Infrastructure                 25.5                 90S
(b)  Secondary Cities                        5.0                 90S
(c)  Land Development                        1.8                lOOS
2. Materials and Equipment fort
(a)  MUR                                     0.6                1OOS
(b)  City of Conakry                         1.1                1002
(c)  UPSU                                    0.7                1002
3.  UPSU Operating Expenses                       0.5                 40Z
4.  Studies end Supervision of Civil Works        6.4                1002
5. Technical Assistance and Training fors
(a)  MUH                                     4.7                1002
(b)  City of Conakry                         3.0                1002
(c)  UPSU                                    0.3                1003
6. Unallocated                                    7.4
Total IDA Credit                             57.0
The IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed over a six-year period
(Annex 2-6).   Disbursements  for UPSU's operating expenses vill be made
against certified statements of expenditures. To maintain an adequate flow
of funds to finance project expenditures vith a minimum of administrative
delays, two separate special accounts vill be established in a commercial
bank, one sufficient to cover about four months of general pràjoject expendi-
ture (i.e., about US$l.0 M) and a second one to cover about four months of
UPSU's operating expenses (i.e., about US$0.1 M). The special accouants will
be operated as revolving funds for eligible project expenditures vith a
minimum replenishment application requirement of US$0.4 M for the first
account, on the basis of vithdraval requests supported by the necessary
documentation, and of US$50,000 for the second accouant. The initial deposit
from the IDA Credit vill be US$l.0 N and US$0.1 M equivalent, respectively.
Records of the Special Account transactions vill be sent to the Bank for
replenishment.
F. Accounting, Audit and Reporting
2.20      Consolidated project accounts vill be established by the Ministry
(MWB). The CETU (revolving fund for land servicing operations), the City of
Conakry and UPSU will maintain separate accounting systems for the project
con4Donents under their responsibility and vill forvard to MUH the accouating
information necessary for the preparation of consolidated accouants. These
accouants vill be examined annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank Group. The auditor's report vill evaluate (a) the procedures used
to verify expenditure records and their accuracy; (b) their eligibility for
IDA credit financing in light of legal agreements; and (c) the adequacy of
accounting and internal audit procedures. Special accounts vill be subject



- 27-
to annual audit. The Government vill forvard audit reports to the Bank Group
vithin four months of the close of the fiscal year. The Ministry (MUH) vill
prepare and forvard to the Bank Group, quarterly progress reports, as well
as a project completion report to be completed vithin six months after the
closing date.   These arrangements vere discussed and finalized during
negotiations.
G. Economic, Poverty, and Environmental Impact
2.21      Economic Analysis.   Tne benefits expected from improved road
networks vill be savings in vehicle operating costs and transportation time
due to increase in travel speed on the network to be improved.   During
project preparation, measures of these benefits vere used to estimate benefit
streams for a broad range of road links and technical alternatives in order
to select the highest prioricy operations.   Data required fer economic
analysis are currently available for the Conakry infrastructure program, and
complementary engineering and economic studies are currently underway for
the works proposed for secondary centers and vill be completed and reviewed
by the Government and the Bank. The ERR for the Conakry road upgrading has
been found to be ?6Z, excluding time savinge benefits. It is expected that
ERRs for secondary cities vould reach equivalent levels. During negotiation,
confirmation vas obtained from the Government that, to be eligible for
financing under the project, the secondary cities road improvement compone.ûts
should show ERRs of at least 12S. Considering a weighted average for the
project as a whole, the ERR for all road improvement components, representing
about half of total project cost, is estimated to be 32Z, excluding time
savings benefits.  The remaining subcomponents of the project are closely
tied to supporting Government's urban development strategy and separate
economic rates of return for each of these subcomponents, including upgrading
of drainage infrastructure and support for institutional development, vould
be of limited significance.
2.22      Internal rates of return for Conakry roads rehabilitation vere
calculated by comparing cost and benefits streams vith and vithout the
project over a 20-year period. Project cost streams include road investment
and land compensation and the difference in annual road maintenance costs.
Benefits streams include annual savings in road user costs based on available
operating cost data (SGI Luxembourg, October 1989). A simple gravity model
vas used and the assumption of no new traffic generation in the with-project
case implies an underestimation of the net benefits.
2.23      Poverty Impact.   The beneficiarics  of the project vii.  be the
residents of Conakry and secondary cities through improved sanitary
conditions and better access to economic activities as a result of improved
urban services and infrastructure network.   Although it is difficult to
specify the direct beneficiaries of the project component- or the respective
proportions benefitting the urban poor, it is expected that a larger than
proportional share of these benefits vill accrue to the poorer segments of
the urban population. The proportion of urban poor in the areas directly
affected by the road and drainage upgrading component is substantially
higher, since these areas are the most lacking in urban services. This is
also true for the housing component which vill develop mechanisms alloving
the poorer segments of the population to have access to a serviced housing
site.



- 28 -
2.24        Urban poverty vill be alleviated and urban employment stimulated
as a result of improvements to the environment supportih.g the development of
small enterprises in the informal sector.   A specific component of the
proposed project will assist the development of emall enterprises in the
construction sector. Recourse to small contractors for the rehabilitation
and maintenance of municipal infrastructure through labor-intensive
techniques vill also favor employment generation. In the course of project
execution, specialized studies vill be carried out, in conjunction with the
ongoing Socio-Economic Development  Support Project,    to assess  income
distribution as vell as other direct indices of measurable benefits in the
areas affected by the project.
2.25      Environmental Impact. The project's ultimate objective is to allow
for sustained improvement of the living and vorking environment of Guinean
cities and there are no activities in the proposed project vhich could create
significant adverse environmental effects.  The project vill have a positive
impact on the physical  sanitary and tocio-economic conditions of the urban
population. An analysis of the existing natural environment vas conducted
as part of the Conakry Master Plan and didt not identify any specific
constraint in terms of respecting the present ecological equilibrium. The
proposed improvements of the drainage infrastructure vill not modify the
drainage patterns in the vicinity of the mangroves and no potential adverse
effects on this ecosystem are expected. The rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure including paved roads, storm vater drainage ant market areas,
vill minimize dust pollution which aggressively affects city centers and vill
limit flooding, erosion and sedimentation, thereby significantly improving
sanitary conditions not only for city residents but also for rural users of
urban services. Support for the implementation of the new housing and land
development policy through the financing of a first 200-ha operation vill
also allow for a more orderly and efficient urban growth pattern.   The
proposed project vill be implemented in close coordination vith the ongoing
Environmental Action Plan for Guinea initiated by the Bank vith the objective
of developing coherent policies and national programs in various areas
including urban environment.    Specialized consultants vill review the
proposed engineering designs to ensure that they are environmentally safe.
2.26       Continuation of assistance for the development of local govern-
ments, and for UPSU in particular, will allow for improved provision of basic
urban services, such as garbage collection and drainage maintenance, which
are essential for the amelioration of the urban environment. Complementary
actions include the improvement of vaste disposal sites and the creation of
a sanitary landfill in Conakry to be impiemented vith the support of German
Aid (GTZ), and programs to promote improved sanitation at the neighborhood
level to be implemented vith the participation of various NGOs and the
assistance of UNICEF and the UNDP-Bank RWSG.  These combined actions vill
help reduce the severe health hazards resulting from vater-related and
vaterborne diseases which are endemic in the country and constitute a major
cause of child morbidity and mortality.  Furthermore, these operations vill
allow for the identification of a possible Third Urban Project designed to
improve the environment at the neighborhood level, through appropriate
support for community-based actions vithin the overall framevork of Guinea's
decentralization and liberalization process.
2.27      Resettlement Procedures.  Civil works in Conakry vill require the
resettlement of 721 families presently occupying the rights-of-way of the



- 29 -
Infrastructure to be rehabilitated. In the framework of the preparation of
the proposed project, Government has formalized new resettlement procedures
recognizing occupants' rights to compensation and resettlement regardless of
their specific tenure situation. Government's detailed plans for resettlement
vere reviewed at appraisal, confirmed at negotiations, and assessed to be
sound and vorkable, in line vith Bank policies and recomendations to
minimize undue hardship caused by involuntary displacement. A consultative
commission of neighborhood leaders and representatives of the concerned
Government agencies vas created in June 1989 to review the procedures for
identifying, compensating and resettling the families living on the
infrastructure rights-of-way.   All properties to be demolished have been
inventoried and valued, at an average of GF 2.6 M (US$4,300 equivalent) per
household. The cost of resettlement is included in the total project cost
and the compensation to be paid to displaced household3 is already included
in the Government's Public Investment Budget. Au Order listing the familles
to be compensated and the amounts vas jointly signed on October l1, 1989 by
the MiNister of Finance and the Minieter of Urban Development,  for the
resettlement resulting from the firet tranche of civil vorks. Families are
notified as requîred by the werks schedule when it is time for them to move
and are given documents permitti.ag withdraval f rom Treasury funds of the full
amouat of compensation and application for a lot ln the Koloma-Kaporo land
development site. This firet resettlement site is ready for occupancy, roade
clearance and the demarcation of 450 plots are completed. The development
of a second site is underway.   These sites are in the vicluity of the
infrastructure to be rehabilitated and vill thus benefit from improved
servicing and access to employment opportunities, while limiting transporta-
tion and relocation costs to a bare minimum. Lots are reserved vithin these
operations for all families to be resettled. These families vill benefit
from permanent land tenure on theor new lots compared to their previous
mostly illegal statue. The Government resettlement plan mee.s all conditions
required to offer displaced households the opportunity to become established
at living standards that vill at leest match those prior to resettlement.
H. Justification, Benefits and Risks
2.28      Justification. The proposed project constitutes a balanced program
of key infrastructure upgrading, resource mobilization, institutional
development and sector policy reforms. Implementation of this program vill
result in a more efficient and sustainable provision of urban infrastructure
and services, an improvement in the overall efficiency of Guinean cities and
an overall betterment of the vorking and living environment supporting the
development of economic and social activities.   Clarification of urban
agencies' responsibilities, rationalization of urban investment programming,
improvement of urban services' financing, better land management and
implementation of a new housing policy vill promote better resource
allocation in the sector, increase the volume of private savings and
productive investments in housing and economic activities, and stimulate the
development of private sector activities in the provision of urban services.
Local authorities will be strengthened in their capacity to intervene in a
coherent and permanent way to provide and maintain essential urban services.
Improved accesa to urban services will also promote employment-generating
activities in Conakry and major secondary centers as well as their rural
hinterlands and thus contribute to the growth of agricultural productivity.



- 30 -
2.29      Resource Mobilization. Through support for the organization of the
City's financial, fiscal and treasury services. and the production of base
maps to better identify taxpayers and the streamlining of the existing land
and professional taxation system, the project vill significantly increase the
yield of existing municipal taxes. Conservative estimates Indicate that an
additional GY 900 M   lUS$1.6 M equivalent) could be expected annually in
Conakry by the year 1995 (see Annex 2-3). Implementation of the proposed
sanitation fee vill further allow for the progressive self-financing of
garbage collection and urban infrastructure maintenance services. As part
of the proposed new housing strategy, appropriate mechanisms will be
implemented to recuperate the cests of infrastructure associated vith
residential land development operations through the creation of a specific
development fee.
2.30      Risks.  Major risks result from the veak implementation capacity
of both central and local institutions. Technical assistance and training
have been built into the project to adequately strengthen urban agencies and
minimize this risk.  Delays in decision-naking, for political reasons, may
delay improvements in local resource mobilization and implementation of the
proposed policy reforms. To mlnimize these risks, clear political commîtment
to the proposed urban strategy vas obtained during project preparation and
confirmed at appraisal and at negotiations.
I. Aareemente Reached and Recommendations
2.31      Durine nepotiation of the Credit Agreement, the following points
vere discussed and confirmed vith Governmentt
(a) for the urban land development component:
Mi)     the action plan for the land development strategy vas
discussed and agreed vith Goverrment during negotiation
and recorded as part of the Credit Agreement (para. 2.05
and Annex 2-2);
(ii)     the draft Presidential Order creating a new land develop-
ment fee and the revolving fund for land development
operations vas reviewed and agreed vith Government
(para. 2.05); and
(iii)     the draft Order creating a Steering Committee for Urban
Land Development vas reviewed and agreed with Government
(para. 2.05);
(b) for the component to strengthen municipal services in Conakry:
Mi)     assurances regarding UPSU' s continuing administrative and
budgetary  autonomy  vere   agreed  vith  Government
(para. 2.09);
(ii)     the plan for funding UPSU's services through 1995,
prepared by the City of Conakry and reflecting the
progressively decreasing contribution from the IDA credit
vas reviewed and agreed vith Government (para. 2.09);
and



- 31 -
(iii)     the draft Presidential Decrees restructuring the fiscal,
financial, and administrative organization of the City
of Conakry were reviewed and agreed with Governsment
(para. 2.09);
(c)  the qualification criteria  for the project director and the
administrative and financial coordinator were reviewed and agreed
vith Government (para. 2.14); and
(d)  concerning project  execution,  procedures  for  contract  avards
(para. 2.18); categories and financing shares for project costs
(para. 2.19); accounting, audit and reporting (para. 2.20); vere
reviewed and agreed with Government.
2.32      The Presidential Order establishing the fiscal and financial system
of the City and Communes of Conakry was signed (para. 2.09).
2.33      Conditions of Effectiveness are that (a) the Presidential Order
establishing the organization and functioning of the City Cotincil of Conakry
be signed (para. 2.09); (b) the Presidential Order creatiug the land
development fee and the revolving fund for land development operations be
signed (para. 2.05); (c) the Presidential Decree establishing the functioning
of the land development fee and of the revolving fund for land development
operations be signed (para. 2.05); td) the Ministerial Order creating the
Steering Committee for Urban Land Development be signed (para. 2.05); and
(e) the project director be appointed (para. 2.14).
2.34      Conditions of Disbursement are:
(a)  for the financing  of works  related to the  land development
component that the plan, program and development strategy for the
first 200-ha operation be reviewed and agreed with the Bank
(para. 2.05); and
(b)  for the financing of UPSU's operational costs that the financing
plan be reviewed and agreed with the Bank on an annual basis
(para. 2.09).
2.35      Subject to the above assurances and conditions,  the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$57.0 M to the
Republic of Guinea.
APlIN
February 28, 1990



- 32 -                     ANNEX  1-1
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT URBAN INSTITUTIONS
MINISTRY OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING
1.        The Ministry of Urban Development and Housing, formerly a department
vithin the Ministry of Equipment and Urban Development, vas created by a
Presidential Decree dated April 1, 1988. MNU is responsible for the preparation
aul execution of national housing and urban development policy and for urban land
management and urban land development operations. MUE is composed of three
branches  (directions  générales):    DATU  for  regional  planning  and urban
development (Aménagement du Territoire et Urbanisme), DAFO for land tenure
administration (Aménagement Foncier), and DACO for architecture and construction
<l'Architecture et la Construction).
I. DATU. REGIONAL PLANNING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
2.        DATU's responsibilities as staced in Decree No. 16118/Su4ICAB/1987
include preparation of land development and subdivision plans and of industrial
and artisan location studies, and designation of urban and rural primary
Infrastructure gride. Theue responsibilities are assigned to three divisions:
studies and spatial planning; urban rcads, drainage and other networks; and urban
operations and green areas.   These divisions' offices are located at Four
Kilometer Point.   DATU's  director,  appointed by decree,  coordinates  the
divisions' work and maintains liaison with DATU's other (non-operational)
divisions. DATU's staff numbered 70 in 1989.
A. Studies and Spatial Plannina Division
3.        This division is composed of two sections:   General Studies, and
Spatial Programing and Planning.  The General Studies Section drafts legal
regulations and the development code, and conceives and carries out general
policy studies. Its role is purely conceptual. It has a staff of il and two
vehicles. The Spatial Progranming and Planning Section monitors development to
assure that it is in accordance with approved plans, and is in charge of
programming development projects.   Its staff of five includes engineers,
surveyors and draftsmen. These two sections work together vithin the framework
of national land development plans (schémas nationaux d'aménagement du territoire
or SNAT) with the help of technical assietance provided by SGI Luxemburg and
financed by the European Development Fund (FED).
4.        Existing local development plans or structure plans at the prefectural
level are being put into effect and are binding on all parties. Difficulties
continue to exist in erforcing these plans. The division monitors and supervises
civil works carried out by prefectural urban units.



-33-                       ANNEX  1-1
Page 2 of 6
B. Urban Roade and Drainage Division
5.        This division carries out technical studies, giver technical approval
for urban road projects and supervises their execution. Urban roads and drainage
personnel prior to the effectiveness of the new staffing plan (cadre organique)
numbered nine:  six construction engineers, one infrastructure engineer, two
building engineering aides for drafting. The new staffing plan provides for f ive
staff. Offices located at Four Kilometer Point are in good repair as are cars
and 4X4 vehicles. The section is supervieing drainage and site works in Conakry
financed under the Firet Urban Projects  reconstruction of the Republic-Niger
road section, rainwater drains in the Coronthiti and ENIPRA areas and along Fifth
and Sixth Boulevard, along vith other operations such as the reconstruction of
the bus and truck station at the Madina and of the Kénien Market. It han also
carried out the engineering study for main drains in Labe and Kankan (secondary
cities) and is supervising their construction. Road and other infrastructure
works to be carried out in Couakry must be approved by the Ministry and by the
city government.  The division's rulinge are of a technical nature and include
conoideration of requirements set out in the Conakry Master Plan as forwarded
from the operational urban planning section.
C. Urban Overations and Green Areas
6.        This division is run by a division chief appointed by Ministerial
order.  Responsibilities are divided between twe sections, one of which deals
vwith green areas and the other, urban operations. The latter include preparation
of subdivision plans and infrastructure grids and supervision of urban works.
Staff are comprised of six engineers and engineer's assistants and ten inspectors
(assistants). Vehicles and mopeds are available for the inspectors.
7.        The division receives income from two sources:   fines for illegal
occupation of public land, which vary from FG 20 to 250,000 per case, and finds
for violations of urban planning and zoning regulgtions, ranging from FG 20 to
300,000.  Legal texts relating to these fines include Order No. 5440/NEF/CAB
concerning violations of urban planning regulations and the land occupancy
certificate.
8.        Relations with  Other Divisions  and vith  Urban Actors.    Since
February 1989, all requests for plot occupancy are submitted for approval to the
urban operations section of this division to assure conformity with the Conakry
Master Plan. The division works closely with the works and survey section vithin
DAPO (see below) concerning on-site verification of occupancy, and wiith the
building permit section vithin DACO (see below) in cases requiring either
cessation of works for lack of a building permit or demolition of a structure
on public land or belonging to a third party. The division works with developers
to keep track of illegal settlement or to work out a subdivision plan in
collaboration with the vorks and survey section of DAFO and vith the cadaster.
II. DAFO. LAND TENURE
9.        This ministerial branch, created by one of the earliest decrees
reorganizing the Government (No. 003/PRG/11986, section 5) combines two formerly
separate branches of land surveying (topographie) and land registration



- 34 -                     ANNEX  1-1
Page 3 of 6
<domaines). Order No. 1617/SGCICAB/86 regrouped these into two divisions: land
registration and cadaster, and specified the branch's overall responsibilities
as follows: execution of land tenure policy and programming of plot subdivision
plans.  These xemponsibilities involve the following activitiest  Preparation
of legal texta concerning the conditions under which urban land is occupied,
built upon, and transferred; management of public lands; coordination of
surveying works; drawing up and execution of subdivision plans, and establishment
of topographic detail maps from cadastral maps.
A. Land Reaistration Division
10.       This division regulates and issues ownership certificates (extracted
from the actual titles), authorizes and protects lawful land occupation and real
estate ownership.  Its work is based on legislation dating from colonial era
supplemented by various decrees and orders. It is financed from domanial fees
<redevance domaniale), which are collected directly by the Miaistry of Finance,
and by fees paid for services rendered ou'ch as surveys which cost from FG 6,000
to 7,000.  These fees are collected by the financial officer of DAFO's head
office. The chlef of the land registration division ls appointed by Ministerisl
carder (ItR) and te responsible for coordinating the work of its two sections each
of which has its own head.
il.       Land Records Section.   This section collecta a fee for each title
search it conducts in order to determine legal ownership and assignment of the
plot in question and vhether it falls vithin a subdivision plan. In order to
respond to these requesta, it originates site occupation orders, maintains land
archives, records all transfers in the land registers, and is the ptovider of
land title and site occupation file information to other administrative offices
and to its clients. It vorks in close collaboration vith the cadaster office,
vhich forvards to it all files for verification. Prior to June 1989, its staff
consisted of three members. According to the staffing plan, it vill become the
Records Section and is to have a staff of six technicians, not all of ahom are
yet in place. Office equipment is antiquated and inadequate and the section
lacks vehicles; its staff must borrow the head office vehicle (4X4) for site
visits.
12.       Claims Section.  This section prepares ths administration's case in
response to claims and disputes, investigates title status, and assists the
commission ruling on the case to resolve disagreements.   The section vorks
closely with the Records Section which forvards files for verificatio.. and
return. Prior to the reorganization, it had a staff of five including a legal
adviser and two surveyors; it is to gain one staff member during the reorganiza-
tion. As with the previous section, vith whom it shares offices, its equipment
is antiquated.
B. Cadaster Division
13.       This division is in charge of cadastral mape (hnowing plot boundaries),
surveying operations, and of archives and statistics. It works closely vith the
urban operations unit (cellule d'urbanisme opérationnel or CUO) which prepares
sites for occupation once the Cadaster Division has approved the subdivision
plan and demarcated the plots; vith local leaders to verify specific land rights
and to demarcate plot boundaries; snd vith the Records Section to verify land
rights.  The Cadaster Division has very littie surveying equipment.  DATO's



- 35 -                     ANNEX  1-1
Page 4 of 6
entire budget is collected by a Treasury agent seconded to its administrative
and financial branch and deposited directly in the public Treasury.  Annual
receipts are said to be on the order of FG 50 million.
14.       The Cadaster Division is divided into two sections,  Survey and
Cadaster. The Survey Section surveys the site and demarcates the plots. This
section's staff is composed of survey engineers, engineering assistants and
workers. It numbers about 30 of whom about half la contract civil service
personnel.  One vehicle is assigned to the section for site works.  It derives
operational funds from the travel allowance budgeted fo. surveyors which varies
from FG 6,000 to 7,000 per day, paid to the finance officer of DAFO.
15.       The Cadaster Section's mission is to prepare maps, transfer detailed
site plans onto the cadastral maps,  and to maintain archives.   All plot
applications must be recorded in this office pnior to finalization of site maps
and recording in the cadastral register a physical register in contrast to the
land records, which record ownership of plots by number. This section has a
staff of four and does not benefit from any earmarked revenues.
16.       The new reorganization plan -- a document covering the whole Ministry
and defining staffing levels and job descriptions for each position -- provides
for a change of name for the Survey Section, which in the future vill be called
Field Work Section, and for the creation of a third section, the Drafting
Reproduction and Archives Section.   The new section would draft copies of
specific survey areas as directed by the Surveys Section.   Any survey map
produced by this section and bearing the signatures of the Cadaster Division
and of the DAFO director would be considered an official document. The new
division is to have a staff of six, draftsmen and surveyors, and is to be funded
from fees for services rendereds FG 32,000 for each scale drawing regardless
of plot size.
17.       The  Cadaster  Division's   administrative  procedures   are  very
time-consuming and complicated.  It may take more than two years to obtain a plot
occupancy permit. Funds are lacking to purchase office supplies such as filing
cabinets, file folders and notebooks, logs and registers, surveying equipment,
etc., despite the contribution of its work to the considerable income DAFO
collects.   Coordination is lacking vithin DAFO and between DAFO and the
Ministry's other branches. A shortage of sufficiently competent staff prevents
proper quality control and proper organization of title files. Quality control
and coordination procedures need to be improved.
III. DACO. ARCHITECTURE AND CONSTRUCTION
18.       DACO's responsibilities, according to Order No. 1616/CAB/87, include
preparation and supervision of architectural plans, supervision of buildirig
construction, building standards, construction permits, jurisdiction of
disagreements arising during construction, and supervision of real estate
operations. As with the other branches of HUH, DACO consists of three divisions
dealing with architecture, construction and housing. The most important of these
for this project are the building permits section vithin the construction
division and the Architecture Division.



-36-                       ANNEX  l-l
Page 5 of 6
A. Building Permits Section
19.       This section issues building permits and enforces building materials
zoning regulations.   Its field teams supervise construction sites and may
confiscate materials and order work to cease when violations occur.   On
notification by the Urban Operations Unit, this section may demolish a structure
in violation of regulations.
20.       It has a staff of eight building engineers, engineering assistants,
and drivers. It is equipped with one minivan, a very antiquated office on the
fourth floor of the Ninistry block, and a few worn out and inadequate filing
cabinets.   According to the Order No. 5440IMEFICAB11987 of the Ministry of
Finance and Economy, this section may collect fines ranging from FG 20,000 to
a million FG depending on the amount of construction. These fines are in fact
collected by the DACO finance officer, who passes them on to the relevant
Treasury officer; information regarding the total amounts collected was not
available. The same applies to fees collected for building permits, which amount
to FG 10,000 for a one-story structure, FG 20,000 for a two-story structure, plus
FG 5,000 for each additional story. The authorizing legal texts are found in
Order No. 16161SGG1CAB/1987 concerning DACO's responsibilities and Order
No. 54401MEF/CAB/87 concerning fees for services rendered, taxes, and fines and
penalties.
B. Architecture Division
21.       This division is responsible for monitoring architectural standards
and for identification and restoration of historic monuments.   The vork is
carried out by two sections: architecture, and monuments. The first carries
out studies and formulates design concepts, programe architectural work, and
revieva architectural plans for public and private construction projecte. The
latter function is the one most often carried out, though ministerial departments
may commission architectural plans for renovation of Government office blocks.
IV. SOLOPRINO. LOW-COST HOUSING AUTHORITY
22.       SOLOPRIMO (Société de 'Logements à Prix Modérés) vas created in 1986
by decree No. 0221PRG186 (1123186) as amended by decree No. 032/PRG/88, which
provide for the creation of ministerial authorities with financial autonomy.
It functions like a branch of the Ministry and vill continue to do 80 until its
transformation into a public-private joint venture, planned for 1990.   Its
responsibilities include preparatory studies, site preparation, infrastructure
construction, and housing construction.
23.       SOLOPRIMO has a staff of 15 technicians including the Director, who
are seconded by the Goverament and include building engineers, an economist, an
accouatant, a salesman, six temporary staff, as vell as three experts financed
by UNDP Project GUI86/008 -- an accountant, an architect, a sociologist -- one
technical advisor, and an infrastructure expert. Apart from the UNDP staff, only
nine of these are full-times the managing and technical directors, four building
engineers, the economist, and two drivers.



- 37 -                     ANNEX  1-1
Page 6 of 6
24.       Available material dates from a completed UNDP project No. GUI179106.
A portion of this material vas auctioned off and the funds allocated to the UNDP
supported sites and services project No. GUI861009. Two vehicles in good repair
vere transferred to the service.   SOLOPRIMO is equipped vith computers and
printers.  The offices and furniture appear to be in good repair.   UNDP is
financing project technical assistance and UNEF is financing US$3 M of vorks.
Other resources come from the completed project GUI179/96 cofinanced by UNDP,
UNEF and the Republic of Guinea.
25.       With a team of 15 Guinean staff and five from UNEF, SOLOPRIMO can
develop and service two 800 plots operation every year.   It is capable of
completing an operation vithout outside assistance. For certain vorks, it would
need to subcontract to outside consultants.   The distribution of staff by
specialization is not adequatet  there are four building engineers but no
infrastructure engineer, sociologist or lawyer.
26.       SOLOPRIMO's conversion to a joint public-private vent':re should take
place in 1990 if the legal text prepared by the Ministry is approved by
Government. Funds for the sites and services project are separate f rom SOLOPRINO
operating funds. UNDP is financing US$l M of technical assistance and UNEF is
financing US$3 M of vorks. Government contribution is estimated at US$1 M.
AFlIN
January 26, 1990
Job Id - At:mnu1-E.mr
Dtakette -    )



- 38 -                     ANNEX  1-2
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
DECENTRALIZATION POLICY AND URBAN MANAGEMENT
I. DECENTRALIZATION POLICY
A. Political and Administrative Decentralization
1.        Political and administrative decentralization has constituted one of
the foundations of national policy in Guinea since 1984.  The basic framework
of this policy are laid out in Order No. 079/PRG/86 concerning internal
administrative boundaries and organization, which pro-ides for three levels of
decentralized communities (collectivités décentralisés):  rural districts and
urban neighborhoods; rural development communities (CRD), urban communes; and
regional prefectures. The city of Conakry is given a special status.
2.        The  top  and middle  level  structures  in  this  framework -- the
préfectures, rural development communities, urban communes and the city of
Conakry -- are both Government administrative units and decentralized governing
entities with legal and financial autonomy. It is possible that even at the
lowest level, rural districts and urban neighborhoods may be allocated assets
and smRe financial  .utonomy.  This issue has been addressed in Conakry, where
urban neighborhoods have been designated as subsections of the communes making
up the city, but not elsewhere in the country.
3.        The implementation of this decentralized structure is a gradual process
which is taking place simultaneously in Conakry and in the rest of the country.
Preparation for decentralization is actually more advanced in Conakry than
elsevhere, and experience acquired in Conakry vill be seen as a pilot or trial
effort. Success in the decentralization of Conakry is considered a necessary
prerequisite to any extension of the new setup to other towns.
4.        Development of rural development communities and urban communes in
the country's interior regions vill be carried out gradually on the basis of
experience acquired in two pilot cases. Beginning in 1989, the effort is to be
extended to a dozen more communities and then by stages to the rest of the
country. Urban communes will be included as part of this process, which means
that it vill be several years before the thirty-odd cities and towns of Guinea
vill have functioning urbau management institutions.
B. Decentralization in Conakry
5.        What is unusual about decentralization in Guinea is then, that the
st-lactures and legal texts which vill eventually be applied to all communes to
be created in Guinea have been worked out and applied in the creation of
Conakry's five communes, under the sustained initiative of the Governor of
Conakry. Three orders have been issued sO far: (a) No. 002/PRGISGG (5 January
1989) establishing Conakry' s special status; (b) No. 003/PRG/SGG (5 January 1989)



- 39 -                     ANNEX  1-2
Page 2 of 7
creating the five communes; and (c) No. 004/PRGISGG (5 January 1989) establishing
the boundaries of the city and communes.
6.        The preparation of legislation for decentralization in Conakry is
taking place under the leadership of an interministerial technical commission
organized into subcommittees on fiscal and financial regime, regulation, staff ing
structure. budget n=enclture and accounting procedures.  The work of these
subcommittees and the Conakry commission must then be approved by a national
interministerial commission for decentralization.
7.        The decentralization process in Conakry distinguishes clearly between
territorial units (the city and the communes) which have been granted legal and
financial autonomy on the one hand, and local communities on the other hand.
The 76 neighborhoods or city yards have become in effect simply subdivisions of
the communes in which they are iocated, becoming the lowest level for information
exchange and organization vithin the framework of carrying out objectives
determined at the commune level or above.
8.        Since both the city as a whole and the five communes which compose it
are both autonomous decentralized entities and Government administrative units,
there are thus two levels of decentralization in effect vithin the city. It
makes sense to sort out this process in Conakry before extending it to the urban
communes to be established in the country's interior.
9.        The former administrative structure in Conakry -- province, préfecture,
subpréfecture -- vas officially abolished by the January 1989 legislation,
however, and this is another unusual aspect of the decentralization process in
Guinea, they have in fact continued te function and vill not cease until such
time as the legislation creating the new fiscal and financial framework for the
city and communes comes into effect. The question of the role of the existing
prefectures and subprefectures in the rest of the country, including the new
hierarchy of authority to be established and the means of coordination among
levels of authority, has yet to be fully vorked out in the longer-term view of
complete decentralization.
10.       Guinea has embarked on a process of democratization.  The way in which
the prccess evolves in Conakry vill most certainly contribute to the gradual
clarification of certain ambiguities which for the moment continue to exist.
11.       Concerning the existing legislation, it is important to note the
Governor's double role. Se is in effect both the central government's agent,
in which capacity he has authority over government offices assigned to deal with
matters located in Conakry, and at the same time the executive officer of the
city council.   The council is composed of members elected by the communal
councils, which are in turn elected directly by universal suffrage, and of
members representing economic and social concerns appointed in accordance vith
Presidential decree.
12.       This double role iwrÂies confusion of the authorizing and accounting
functions. Thu legislation concerning Conakry's special status is in fact quite
explicit on this account, stating that the Governor 'under surveillance of the
supervising authority, executes the budget of the city for which he both
authorizes expenditure and oversees the accountsa (Article 14, Chapter 4).



- 40 -                     ANNEX  1-2
Page 3 of 7
13.       The decentralization policy is taking somewhat longer to put into
effect than the Government originally intended; it had envisaged that the city
and the f ive communes vould begin to function in January 1990 vithin the complete
new organizational, fiscal and financial framework.  It appears nov more likely
that it vill only become fully operational in early 1991. Draft legislation to
establ'sh the fiscal and financial regime for the city and communes of Conakry
and to specify the organization and functioning of comnunes elsewhere in the
country has been carefully prepared by the technical subcommittees and approved
vithout reservation by the interminîsterial committee for Conakry on June 20,
1989.   These draft texte vere stubmitted to the national decentralization
commission, and presented by the Governor of Conakry to the members of the CMRN
(Comité Ministériel de Redressement National) and finally by the Minister of the
Interior to the Council of Ministers. The detailed regulatory decrees need to
be prepared, in particular the organizatio'. plan for the city and the communes.
III.  FUNCTIONS. FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT OF UPSU
A. Leaal Statue
14.       UPSU's existing statua stems from the Credit Agreement co-signed by
Guinea and the World Bank on May 7, 1984 and providing for the execution of the
Firet Urban Project. The creation of an autonomous and self-financing urban
service unit (unité de pilotage des services urbains or UPSU) in Conakry vas a
condition for signing an amendment to this Agreement dated May 28, 1987. UPSU
vas created by Order No. 046/PRG187 on May 28, 1967, as a "provincial level
service under the authority of the Provincial Governor of Conakry and having
financial autonomy" (Article 4).
15.       It is aleo stipulated in Article 5 that UPSU is la temporary structure
which shall fulfill ite missions until the establishment of structures resulting
from the administrative reform of greater Conakry.' Thus the issue of UPSU's
role is back on the agenda because of the initiation of the decentralization
process.
B. Functions and OrRanization
16.       UPSU carries out household vaste collection, cleaning and sweeping of
streets and public spaces and maintaining sanitary standards, cleaning and
routine maintenance of rainvater drainage network, management of the provincial
garage where provincial vehicles are maintained and at times other government
vehicles (from Chapter 1, Article 1 of the Order specifying UPSU's functions).
17.       UPSU is composed of a front office plus a technical office supervising
four divisions:
(a) the sanitation division whose staff carries out, directly or through
private contractors, household waste collection, etreet sweeping and
cleaning of public spaces, and supervision and management of vaste
dumps;
(b) the drainage division which cleans and maintains rainvater drains;



- 41 -                     ANNEX  1-2
Page 4 of 7
(c) the garage division, which maintrins 53 vehicles, including heavy
equipments trucks, sanitation and container trucks and drain cleaning
vehicles, and at times other Government vehicles (Article 4.3); and
(d)  administrative and financial units run by a coordinator appointed in
the context of the First Urban Project. The administrative division
handles personnel and contract matters, and the accounting office deals
with budgeting and accounts.
C. Personnel
18.       UPSU's personnel is entirely made up of seconded staff from central,
provincial and prefectural government offices who continue to pay their salaries.
Most are contract employees; only eight are permanent civil service staff. The
organization charts at the end of this annex indicate their assignments.
D. Financins
19.       UPSU's financing has been provided from two sources:   Government
subvention for 60S of operating expenses aside from staff salaries, and the IDA
credit for the remaining 402 up to US$200,000.
20.       Operating expenses have not yet reached the estimated ceiling of
FG 400 million, according to analysis of final accounts for 1988, and in fact
UPSU vas able to operate for less than FG 250 million. There are suppliers'
credits amounting to over FG 87 million which needed to be settled in 1989,
accumulated due to various delays in depositing Government and IDA credit funds.
These credits have also resulted in bank fees of about FG 600,000. Overall 1988
accounts reveal no need for additional financing.
E. Prioritv Issues
(i) UPSU Status
21.       It is very important to maintain the principle of financial autonomy
and to agree on a suitable legal status for UPSU's continued functioning vithin
the framework of the decentralization. Variouw' alternatives should be studied
vithin the framework provided by Order No. 030PRGISGG/88 of June 15, 1988 which
lays down the basic principles of creation, organization and monitoring of the
public entities.   These alternatives include a service vithin an existing
government agency with a supplementary budget subject to specific regulations,
or an independent agency with complete legal and financial autonomy.  The latter
solution would appear to be the most workable and could take two formst  a
parastatal agency or a public-private joint venture.
22.       Alternative structures for UPSU should be evaluated on the basis of
criteria such as: whether they permit special salary scales to be set, special
fees to be collected from beneficiaries, flexible management procedures
especially with regards to expenditure authorization and reassigning funds,
efficiency of the organization, etc.



- 42 -                     ANNEX  1-2
Page 5 of 7
(ii) UPSU FinancinR
23.       It also seems clear that a financing mechanism needs to be established
which allows UPSU to better predict its income, manage its expenditures and its
cash flov. On the one hand, it vould be appropriate to add to UPSU's existing
sources of financing, new sources vhich UPSU itself would collect for its own
uset   the average cost of services rendered to be paid by industrial and
commercial establishments, and fees to be paid by private or public customers
which benefit from UPSU's varlous services.
24.       On the other hand, in the short term, the local entities of Conakry,
basically the city, need to provide an annual contribution to UPSU's budget which
vill allov the World Bank to vithdraw altogether from financing operating
expenses vithin five years and which vill lighten the burden on central
Government. A financing plan for UPSU through 1995 vas revieved vith Government
at negotiations. This plan clearly defines the financial responsibilities of
the State and City Government given their respective budgetary constraints.
(iii) UPSU Management
25.       Improved operational management depends  on  the  introduction of
analytical accounting techniques alloving for better definition of actual
operational costs, and this in turn provides a se ind basis for billing industrial
and commercial clients. In addition, appropriate provision for depreciation has
never been made, and the need to undertake reno ition or replacement of equipment
and buildings is about to become a critical .;sue.
26.       Last but not least, UPSU needs to be able to pay the salaries of its
own personnel required to undertake those tasks which cannot be subcontracted,
by hiring either professional handymen (tâcherons) to be supervised by UPSU's
staff, or small- and medium-sized enterprises.   This and other aspects of
operational management, including an evaluation of staff resources and proposals
for reorganization, need to be addressed in a study to prepare UPSU's restructur-
ing. Draft terms of reference for that study to be funded under the project vere
reviewed and agreed vith Government.
III. URBAN SERVICES IN SECONDARY CITIES
A. Overvivw
27.       The  upswing  in Guinea's  economy  folloving monetary  reform  and
structural adjustment measures, along vith the revival of internal transport
folloving the improvement of the interurban road netvork, have fostered a
reavakening of towns and cities in the interior of the country. This has meant
rapid increase in urban market activity levels, and rapid development of bus and
truck terminals and of motorized transport vithin these settlements.
28.       During the long period of stagnation which preceded this boom, the
infrastructure of these towns vas allowed to deteriorate and lt is no longer in
any way capable of sustaining the current grovth in urban activity.
i



- 43 -                     ANNEX  1-2
Page 6 of 7
(a) Market activities spill over into the streets around the market where
unsanitary conditions are a constant reminder of the absence of
effective drainage and regular vaste collection.
(b) Open spaces where passenger and goods vehicles park, de facto
terminals, are crowded and poorly laid out.
(c) Drainage networks (street gutters and main drains) are filled with
refuse and or-id Aue to erosion, leading to frequent flooding and rapid
deterioration of road surfaces.
ld)  In  some towns,  the  road network  is crossed by thalwegs which
permanently cut off some neighborhoods from the town centers and from
regional road networks.
29.       Inadequate levels of new investment alone cannot be blamed for this
situation which is due in the first instance to the lack of municipal administra-
tion and of socio-economic institutions capable of guaranteeing even a minimum
level of maintenance for existing infrastructure.
30.       As mentioned above (para. 1), decentralization has been a major policy
element of the Guinean governnent since 1984. Hovever:
<a) In the country' s interior, decentralization began with the organization
of rural development communities <CRD) which include only residents
outaide the towns and which are based on a program of umicroprojects. a
<b) Organization of decentralized administration vithin towns, initiated
in Conakry, is far from being completed. In the legislation as vell
as in fact, the specific mechanisms of urban management for greater
Conakry are far from satisfactory.
(c) The next generation of decentralized entities to be put in place is
intended to include an urban commune, but it viii be several years
before the thirty-odd towas and cities of Guinea vill be provided with
capable and appropriate urban management.
31.       Experience acquired in the implementation of the secondary cities
development project of the FED (European Development Fund) has shown that:
(a)  The  mmicroproject"  system cannot respond to the need for urban
infrastructure in secondary towns both because the scale of priority
projecta far exceeds the amounts generally allocated to a microproject,
and moreover because the lack of technical competence in these urban
areas usually prevents the preparation and execution of such projects.
(b) There is no means whatever in place to collect local funds required
to operate the required services and maintain minimal infrastructure;
at the same time there is no staff whatever permanently assigned to
carry out such tasks, not to speak of the local ability to invest in
public services.
32.       Major funding could be mobilized from various donor organizations,
bilateral and multilateral, to carry out needed investment in secondary cities



- 44 -                    ANNEX  1-2
Page 7 of 7
in Guinea. Many donors also consider that the presence of properly functioning
city institutions is in effect a precondition for development of the country'e
agricultural potential.
33.       However, in the absence of functioning urban institutions, an increase
in investment to rehabilitate, reinforce or extend urban infrastructure would
be inefficient, since these new vorks would rapidly cease to function due to the
absence of routine and periodic maintenance. As a consequence, any effort to
start up urban investment in the towns of Guinea's interior absolutely muet be
accompanied by the setting up, in each town, of permanent technical and financial
mechanisme intended to furnish minimum maintenance service based on local
resources, so that new works may continue to play a lasting role rather than
deteriorating more rapidly than normal depreciation standards allow.
AFlIN
January 26, 1990
Job id    A-:An.l-E.mr
Diuotete - 4)



- 45 -                    ANNEX  1-3
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC 0F GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
FINANCING URBAN SEtVICES
CONARRY MWNICIPAL FINANCE
1.        In order to evaluate the potential for local resource mobilization in
CGr.akry, three points are taken up in this annex: the structure of municipal
income, recent trends in Conakry city income, and projected income (1993 and
1995) for the newly created city and communes.
I. SOURCES OF MUNICIPAL INCOME
2.        The structure of municipal income comprises two major categoriess  on
the one hand, fiscal resources and on the other, non-fiscal resources as
specified in Article 25 of Order 79 (25 March 1986) prescribing the Republic's
administrative reorganization and creating decentralized administrative units
or commnities. The folloving description covers the structure nov in place
which predates this order and which will continue to exist until the new
municipal fiscal regime for the Conakry city and communes is approved.  Thus it
is the resources of the former province and prefectures which are presented here.
A. Fiscal Resources
3.        Local fiscal resources are provided for ln Articles 253-378 of the
Miscellaneous Taxes Code of 1966, as amended by Laws 011-013 APN of 12 and 23 May
1981 and appearing lu the Official Journal of 15 September 1982. These local
fiscal resources are of four types: (a) prefectural development tax (contri-
bution au développement préfectoral, or CDP); (b) land and property taxes;
(c) taxes on economic activities; and (d) other centrally collected taxes.
4.        The prefectural development tax (CDP) is a general head tax, relatively
vell accepted by the population, easy to collect, vith a high recovery rate, and
the mainstay of local fiscal income. The rate vas increased from FG 700 in 1987
to FG 2000 in 1988. The collection procedure may need to be revised since Lt
leads to som evasiont  the CDP is actually collected at the neighborhood and
rural district level, forvarded to the Prefect -- who is not a Treasury
agent -- before being deposited in the public coffers.
5.        In the draft legislation to establish the fiscal and financial
structure of the city and the communes, the CDP becomes a "minimal tax for local
development. IReceipts vould be shared 70130 between the city and the communes,
but evern this principle has not been definitively settled and detailed procedures
remain to be spelled out. It also appears that exemptions provided for may be
excessive; vhile a very high collections rate is assumed, it is applied to a
narrow base which is doubtless far lesa than the real potential.
6.        Land and Propertv Taxes. At the local level, there are two such taxest
a tax on rented property paid by owners and a rent tax paid by renters. A third



- 46 -                    AMNEX  1-3
Page 2 of 10
tax on vacant land has not been collected for many years and vas not revived in
the 1984 reform because of uncertainty concerning land legislation. The tax on
rented property is based on Othe real value of the property as at 1 October of
the tex year vith a deduction of 40S for residential property and 502 for
factories, taking into consideration deterioration and the costs of maintenance
and repairu (Article 261, Code of Miscellaneous taxes). This "real value is
the rental value, determined on the basis of leases or oral agreements, or if
these are lacking, by administrative determination based on the last value known.
The rate is determined as a function of the ownerls incomes  20  for owners
having incomes above FG 400,000, 15S for incomes between FG 200,000 and 400,000,
and 10  for incomes below .a 200,000.  Owner-occupied residences are exempted,
as are residences occupied by family members and buildings renting for FG 20,000
or lese per month. A separate rent tax is collectible frrom each occupant of
residences renting for FG 10,000 or more per month and is assessed at 15Z of the
annual rental value.
7.        The property and rent tax bring in absurdly low amounts for several
reasons:
(a) No census has been made nor have rental values been surveyed. The
multiple rates to be applied make the taxes complicated to administer.
The property tax is seen by rate payers as duplicating the rental tax
which seeme to be the most unpopular tax in the country.
(b) In the draft legislation, the property tax and tax on vacant land are
to go to the city and the rent tax to the communes.
8.        While the ce-sus of property and its mapping to be carried out in the
Second Urban Projtct should considerably improve the yield from these taxes,
higher sustained yields vill require that:
(a) these activities are carried out using fairly simple means and
procedures if the cost of administering the tax is not to exceed the
expected yield; and
(b) measures to simplify these taxes in order to achieve an efficient
structure and increase the rates to a more realistic level.
9.        Moreover, since future land legislation vill most likuly confirm state
ownership of land, it vould make better sense to rely on some kind of annual
occupancy fee which vould have the advantage of bringing into the tax base
Ovacant9 land (undeveloped plots). Such an occupancy fee for private occupation
of public land has in any case been included as a future income source for the
city and the comaunes though no amounts have been specified. This is a highly
critical issue which vill need to be dealt vith on a priority basis in order to
achieve any significant improvement in local land-based revenue.
10.       The most important of the taxes on economic activities is the patente
or tax on business and professional activity by occupational category.   As
elsewhere in French-speaking Africa, this tax is very complicated to administer,
especially given the limited resources available, the impressively large number
of categories involved (124), requiring five schedules to display their
classification and in some cases seven income levels to specify the various rates
(depending on income levels). In each subcategory, there is both a fixed and



- 47 -                    ANNEX  1-3
Page 3 of 10
a variable tax applied to the rental value of space used for business; the tax
amounts vary according to which schedule the profession is listed under.
11.       It is obvious that this system needs to be simplified drastically.
As in the case of the property and rent taxes above, it needs to be conceived
with administrative practicality as the firet criterion, the rate levels need
to be updated, and collections procedures devised to match limited resources
available. A recent analysis of the patente as it is actually administered in
Conakry revealed the following points: il
(a)  A quick survey showed that while about 502 of enterprises are cn the
tax rolls, certain sectors such as construction have escaped inclusion.
(b)  While the patente may be relatively ill-suited to the "modern" sector,
it is still appropriate for the traditional sector, for which it is
often the only tax. By the same token, 932 of the btisinesses listed
vere assessed for less than FG 100,000 while the top 1.2Z of businesses
accounted for 30Z of the tax bill.
<c)  The level of the patente as a percentage of annual turnover varies
widely within categories and between types of businesses, f rom a tenth
af a percent per FG 1,000 of turnover to 3.42.
(d)  A reevaluation of the various fixed and variable rates alone could
increase patente billings by a factor of 2.7.
12.       The actual structure of these rates no longer corresponds to the actual
economic structure of Conakry; in fact it is totally obsolete. Revised tax rates
are already beini, applied by the fiscal services though not yet legally
authorized. In any case, while vaiting for the overall revision of the patente,
substantial improvements of lasting utility could result from introduction of
a computerized database of businesses subject to the patente following a
systematic survey, including cross-references to map locations.
13.       The draft legislation for the fiscal and financial structure of Conakry
provides for receipts from the patente paid by corporations to be assigned to
the city and for those paid by sole proprietorships to go to the communes. It
is difficult to surmise the reasons leading to such an allocation and virtually
impossible to determine its impact on the resoui_es of either beneficiary. The
distinction between corporations and proprietorahips could not be made during
the statistical analysis of the patente since the legal status of individual
businesses is not noted in the tax rolls.
14.       Last but not least, it cannot be overemphasized how necessary it la
for the future fiscal structure of Conakry city and communes that all receipts
from the patente flow to them, including those paid by public enterprises which
have heretofore been allocated to central government.
15.       Among other centrally administered taxes, the vehicle tax (taxe unique
sur les véhicules or TUV) ie the most important one for local purposes; others
/  The Patente in Conakry -- Finding8  and Analysis.  Vorld Bank, Technical
Assistance, December 1988.



- 48 -                     ANNEX  1-3
Page 4 of 10
such as the entertainment and firearms taxes are barely worth mentioning. The
vehicle tax, introduced by Decree 0111PR6/84 of 5 January 1984, replaced a number
of taxes on transport for which recovery vas poor due to collections difficul-
ties. Vehicle tax revenues are collected by the Treasury and credited to central
government (75Z) and prefectural (25Z) accouants.
16.       Payment of the vehicle tax entitles the payee to receive a license
which must be displayed on the vindshield.  Vehicles are divided into three
classess utility and tourism vehicles (category A), heavy goode vehicles (B),
and pessengers vehicles (C).
17.       This taz yielded little until rates vere ra. 3ed in 1988.  Evasion
appears to be videspread but difficult to get a hand . on vithout a list of
licensed drivers which vould make it possible to trac' down those who have not
paid. The difficulty of enforcing this tax and the àov level of cooperation
received from other Government agencies make it impractical to close this gap.
18.       It vould be desirable for the full yield of the vehicle tax to be
assigned to local units vithin the framework of the new fiscal and financial
structure.
E. Non-fiscal Resources
19.       In this category fall principally miscellaneous taxes and fees on the
one hand (primarily market charges) and land occupancy taxes on the other. The
importance of a fee based on private residency has already been stressed. In
order for the city and communes to receive income from these sources, either
central government must deposit the amounts collected to local government
accouants or local governments collect these resources themselves folloving the
creation of a land domain of their owas; the first solution is by far the better.
20.       As a class, non-fiscal resources are of little consequence compared
to fiscal ones. The introduction of local governments should allow them to "take
off, * particularly since such resources vill be specifically earmarked for their
own budgets.   At the present time, revenue from the markets is the only
non-fiscal tax which deserves mention. Market charges are of three types:
(a) a patente charged to market vendors, embedded in the fiscal system
and difficult to separate from the rest of the patente;
(b) street hawkers' fees (charged on a daily basis); and
(c) stall rental fees. The recovery level of stall rental appears to vary
considerably by locations close to 100Z in Conakry 1, compared to less
than 25Z in Conakry 3 in 1988.
21.       Potentially collectible income from markets vas estimated to be about
FG 160 million in 1988 on the basis of a survey which may not have been
exhaustive, and assuming very low current levels of charges (FG 2000 to 6000
monthly stall rent). This estimate is clearly lover than the potential yield
considering that daily street hawker fees even vith no increase in rates should
have brought in PG 230-250 million compared to the FG 55 million indicated in
1987.



- 49 -                    ANNEX  1-3
Page 5 of 10
22.       A systematic cenosus of stalls, stands, kiosks, tables, etc., along vith
a reorganization and better supervision of fee collections should quickly yield
positive results, especially if it vere matched with a physical rearrangement
of the market sites, which may take place with French financing (Caisse Centrale
de Coopération Economique).
23.       The draft fiscal and financial legislation for the city and communes
of Conakry indicates that the city tax collector is to have responsibility for
collecting the patente, market fees and stall rental fees for the Kénien, Madina
and Niger Markets.   Other markets are classified as comunuity oriented and
therefore to be covered by the commune-level tax collectors and the revenue used
at the commune level.
II. STRUCTURE AND RECENT EVOLUTION OF CONAKRY MWNICIPAL INCOME
24.       Table 1 below shcws the spectacular growth of local fiscal income from
1987 to 1988, from FG 290 to 540 per capita, amounting to an increase in total
revenue of more than FG 250 million in 1988.  Estimates of the increase are
doubtlesse less than reality insofar ast
(a) the figures refer mainly to direct taxes (essentially the patente,
property and rent taxes and the development tax or CDP), in the absence
of data for the other revenue sources in 1988; and
(b) the figures are based on data for nine monthe of FY1988.



- 50 -                        ANNEX  1-3
Page 6 of 10
Table 1. Local Revenue Collected In Conakri In 1987 and 1988
---   Yar -- -   Yearl Increase: 1987-1988
1987      1988      Value      Percentage
FC million                Population (080):  964.7   1,012.0      C31.0        68
Dlr«ct Taxes La
Patente                                    11       177          76          76%
Property end Rent                           22       82          il         s1x
CDP                                         48      221         178         460%
Other                                        9       17           8          89X
Subtteal, Direct                           18      449         289         268X
Other Taxe /b
Market Fes                 68                       na..       n.a.         n.a.
Subtotal, Other                             67       67        n.a.         n.a.
Land Praite /b                              40        40        n.a.         n.a.
User F es                                     1         1        n.a.         n.a.
Total (FO allions)                           277      54          29          98
Total per Cepite (F0)                       2 W       U0          210         881
la  Source: National Tex Offlce, Flnance linltry, figures for firet nine monthe of 1988.
jb Sources National Tax Office, floures for 1987; used as 1988 estlmate for lack of botter data.
25.        The impact of changes in the revenues for which information is not
available should be minimal considering that, taken together, these sources
accounted for only 401 of total local revenue in 1987.  Nearly 65Z of the known
increase in revenue is due to the increase in the CDP (local developmen,. tax),
due both to an increase in the rate from FG 700 to 2000 in 1988 and also to
better recovery rate since it vas paid by 112,000 persons in 1988 compared to
69,000 in 1987.
26.        Table 2 shows the main characteristics of local revenue structure:
(a)  the preponderance of direct taxest  65Z in 1987 and more than 801 in
1988 if missing data is taken at 1987 levels;
(b)  the low yield of property and rent taxes (less than 81 of the total
in 1987, about FG 32 annually per capita); and
(c) the very poor yield from the site occupancy permit (revenus du
domine), and user fees (revenus des services); the low collection
rate and high collections costs of these have been documented in
several reports.



- 51 -                       ANNEX  1-3
Page 7 of 10
Table 2. Structure of Local Revenu ln Conakry
Yea      r
Itew                                 1987          198
Direct Taxes               68.01
Patente                    86.8%         69.0%        89.6%
Property Taxes             7.6%          12.6          7.2%
CDP                       17.4%          28.81        49.4%
Other                                     0.11         8.9%
Subtotal                                19.01
Other Txes                 20.4%                       n.o.
Market Fees                              97.6%        n.a.
Other                                     2.6%
Subtotal                               lOO.0%
Land Permit                14.81                       n.a.
User Fees                   0.1%                       n.a.
To"                        198.0
27.        Table 3 shovs the very substantial growth in billings for the patente
since 1986 reflecting a major survey to identify the tax base.  The collections
rate has not tmproved as rapidly. No estimate is available of the unrecovered
billings during the period analyzed.  Property tax billings more than double
between 1986 and 1988, but the collections rate dropped by almost two points over
the period.
Table 8. Sil1in a*nd Collections for the Main Local Taxe (Conakry)
18M -   -  1987 --  -- 1988
ltm         Billed Collected  C/B   gjlji Collected  C/B   Billed Collected  Ç
Patente           161.4   70.1   48.0%   199.2  110.8  60.6%   889.8   177.1   46.0%
Proporty Taxes    1O.2    18.8   17.4%   140.5   21.6   14.6%   280.8    82.4   14.0%
C.D.P.            80.6    66.4   08.6%    82.4   48.8   58.61   286.6   221.4  94.0%
Total             847.1   148.8   41.4%   428.1   170.6   40.0%   866.7   480.9   W.0%
-         -       -       -       -      -       -       -      - = .  .r
III.  PROJECTIONS OF CONAKRY REVENUE TO 1993 AND 1995
28.        The year 1993 may be considered as the midpoint of the project
lmplomentation period for the Second Urban Project, while 1995 corresponds to



- 52 -                     ANNEX  1-3
Page 8 of 10
the completion of the plan to gradually withdraw Bank support for financing UPSU
operating expenses for urban services delivery.
29.       In order to project revenue for Conakry's local governments, two
hypotheses vere considereds the first is based on continuation of present trends
without the additional support for local resource mobilization provided through
the Second Urban Project, and the second is based on attaining the project
objectives.
30.       The p:oject is expected to affect local resource mobilization primarily
through its impact on:
(a) property taxes, the per capita development tax, and the patente, among
fiscal sources; and
(b) market receipte, among local revenue sources.
31.       The specific hypotheses with regards to the first group are as followss
(a)  the patentes
In the trend (without-project) case, the efforts to carry out a
business census and develop a database of practicing professionals
begin to bear fruit in 1988 with a 75Z increase in collections over
the previous year.   A  doubling of income  from the patente is
foreseeable by 1993.  In 1995, it is assumed that the yield from the
patente per capita vould be the same as in 1993, since a drop-off in
incremental improvements is likely to be inevitable due to a fall in
the collection rate if Treasury collections staff receive no logistic
support.
In the with-project case, a per capita target of nearly FG 500 can be
achieved from 1993; this corresponds to successful collections from
50Z of all businesses and an increase in the rates charged by a factor
of 2.5 in order to adjust for inflation. This target can be achieved
due tot
(i) the effect on billings of the fiscal database and its mapping
which are to be prepared under the project; and
(ii) logistic support to the units responsible for collections
for the city and the communes.
(b) orepertv taxes:
In the without-project case, the 1988 per capita revenue level remains
static through 1993 (at FG 32).   The with-project case assumes a
gradual improvement in revenue reaching FG 150 per capita in 1993
folloving the progressive implementation of fiscal mapping as planned
under the project and of DAFO's land tenure data base. By 1995 the
yield frem these taxes is projected to reach FG 200 per capita,
corresponding to a third of the potential yield of FG 750 and assuming
that half of thE total rental value of property vill be exempt, given
existlng fiscal legislation.



- 53 -                    ANNEX  1-3
Page 9 of 10
(c)  CDP local develovment taxs
The CDP, which vas raised from FG 700 per person in 1987 to FG 2000
in 1988 is [correct French text: est not et] actually collected from
about 11 of the estimated population in Conakry. It is assumed that
the taz will be collected from 20Z of the population with logistic
support supplied by the project in the with-project case, while the
vithout-project case assumes the current llS base. In both cases the
present rate of FG 2000 has been maintained.
32.       The assumptions concerning the taxes to be administered by the local
municipal institutions are as followvs
(a) Other taxes:
The share in these of market receipti has been maintained at about 82t.
In the vithout-project case, market income grows at the same rate as
the population through 1995, maintaining the 1988 per capita level.
In the vith-project case, revenue mobilization equivalent to FG 135
per capita is arrived at by 1993 folloving better identification of
the taxable base (delineating market zones, surveying the number of
occupied vending sites, classification of these sites).
A yield of nearly FG 183 million from market charges in 1993 in the
with-project case vould correspond simply to 1002 recovery of current
(1989) billings at current rates for the patente collected f rom market
businesses, stall rental fees and daily street hawkers' licenses. It
follows that any increase in the rate levels and categories at the same
recovery rate vould bring in additional resourcea, as vould any
improvement in the billings for the patente on market businesses.
(b) Land permits and user fees:
The yield from these sources is very low. It should gradually increase
once the city and commune administrations are in place. It has been
assumed that this increase vill be quite rapid given the likely
motivation of the local administrative units to collect income from
services that they vill perform and to develop new housing subdivisions
f rom which they can collect annual occupancy fees.  The project's
impact on mobilization of these resources has been considered to be
quite high, leading to a growth in user fees of over 100Z per annum.
These projections show for 1993 a revenue increase due to the project
of over FG 900 mîllion, which amounts to more than twice the revenue
in the without-project case. By 1995 it is anticipated that the tax
burden vould have reached nearly 902 of the theoretical potential
allowable (10Z of household income), assuming that real household
income remains static.



- 54 -                          ANNEX  1-3
Page 10 of 10
Table 4. ProJection of Resources Aval fable to Conakrl CItv nabu Co_unes
Wltb end Without Prolect Cnes. la 1998 end 1995
(Hyp. 1 a Wt/out Project; llyp. 2 a W/Project)
- 198 -  -1998                            lm-  -  199 -
Hyp. 1     4Hyp. 2    Ityp. 1     Hyp. 2
FP ell Iono             Population (0)  1,012.0           1,855.9                 1,52.0
Dlrect Taxes
Total                                    448.20    728.44    1,S26.70      828.94    1,757.20
Petont                                  (171.1    (864.5)    (745.26)   (897.24)    (88.08)
Property end Rent                        (82.40)   (48.80)   (28.86)    (48.70)   (282.08)
CDP                                    (221.40)  (296.28)   (542.02)    (888.08    (620.80)
Other                                   (17.88)    (84.8)    (84.0)        (50.00)    (58.88)
Other Taxes
Total                                     57.28     76.22      106.68       8C.71     206.S
Market Fe«                               (56.80)   (74.78)    (182.02)    (84.0)   (201.89)
Total Land Pemrts                         89.80      79.80       79.80       80.41      89.41
Tobal User Fes                             O.70       8.a        24.10 20.00            1oa.00
Total (F0 illion)                          69a    8.         1.815.08   g1&24.06   2.62.11
Total par Capitt (F0)                                          .844.0                 .86.087.08
Table 6. Annuel Rvenus Inereae for Conakry City end Commune. 1988-1995
(F0 mil1Ions)
H»eothU«t 1 a 9lthout Project; Hypothaelo 2 a With Proj«t
1989   19e      1991    1992    L998    194        199
Hypotheest 1          s6u      578      612     649      6W7      728      876    1024
Hypothesls 2          C46      678      612     879    12B8      1816    1988    2152
AP1IN
January 29, 1990
Job Id -A:Aam1-W.r
Dlakl t   OQ@4)



- 55 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 1 of 19
REPUhbLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.        The project consists of four main componentss
(a) a program to rehabilitate priority infrastructure in Conakry and four
secondary cities;
(b) a housing and land development operation in Conakry based on the
institutional and financial mechanisms proposed in the new housing and
land development strategy;
(c) continuation of the program to assist the development of small
construction enterprises launched under the Firet Urban Project; and
(d) support to ctrengthen urban services and municipal development by
improving local resource mobilization and the supply of basic urban
services in Conakry on the one hand, and support for the emergence of
a capability for urban management in the cities and towns of the
country's interior, on the other.
I. PRIORITY URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADING PROGRAM
2.        The priority program to improve urban infrastructure, which includes
execution of priority civil vorks intended to complement, upgrade and rehab-
ilitate infrastructure in the country's major economic centers, consists of four
componentss
(a) strengthening the primary road network in Conakryv
(b) rehabilitation of Conakry's drainage network;
(c) priority infrastructure vorks in the four regional centers; and
(d)  strengthening of MUH units responsible for planning and supervision
of all the above works.
3.        Strenathening the orimarv road network in Conakry involves:
(a) upgrading of the Coyah Road, extending the Fidel Castro Expressway
for about 5.8 km beyond the Airport intersection at Gbessia.   The
upgraded pavement would be 2 X 7.5 m vide (four lanes with median
strip);
(b) upgrading of the Hamdallaye-Bellevue road to increase its existing
capacity, consisting of two 7.5 meter double-lane ways vith median
strip on about 2.1 km, the reconstruction of the Bellevue Bridge to



- 56 -                        ANIEX  2-1
Page 2 of 19
increase vidth to four lanes; and the upgrading and redesign of four
intersections;
(c) rehabilitation of Le Prince Road f rom Hamdallaye intersection to
Road T2. The section from Hamdallaye to Road Tl vould be 2 X 7.5 m
vide (four lanes vith median strip).  The section from Road Tl to
Road T2 vould be 7.5 m vide (twre lanes);
(d) construction of Road Tl consisting of a 14 m vide pavement (four lanes
vithout median strip) about 2.8 km long;
(e) clearing of the right-of-way for Road T2 on a length of about 5 km;
(f)  rehabilitation of the northern coastal road between the Xaporo bridge
and Road T4 (Lambanyi) including construction of two 10 m long bridges,
and the realignment of the coastal road over a stretch of about 4.7 km;
(g) extension of Road T4 through the proposed new land development
operation; and
Ch) clearing of rights-of-way. including compensation and resettlement of
households currently occupying them, for all roads in the program.
4.        The rehabilitation of Conakrv's drainage netvork involves lmproving
rainvater runoff in five catchment basinss
Ca) Coronthie South (about 45 ha), including the rehabilitation of about
1,150 m of existing drains and construction of 4,100 m of new collector
drains and one outfall conduit;
<b)  rai1wa, station area (about 40 ha) including rehabilitation of about
600 m of existing drains and construction of 3,200 m of new collector
drains and two outfall conduits;
(c) Tombo area (about 13 ha) including the rehabilitation of 750 m of
collector drains and of two outfall conduits;
(d) Kipe school area (about 23 ha) including the construction of about
800 m of new collector drains and of two outfall conduits; and
(e) University area (about 60 ha) including the rehabilitation of about
500 m of existing drains, reconstruction of an existing canal about
800 m long, and the construction of ocean outfall conduits.
5.        The vrioritv infrastructure nroaram in secondarY cities comprises the
folloving vorks identified during the preparation of Structure Plans and Program
Plans for the four regional centers by DATU-CEPUR under EDF financings
(a) In Kindia, the Second Urban Project will finance two projects, civil
vorks for which are estimated to cost about US$700,000s
Mi) de-isolation of Kenende neighborhood (construction of new
main roads to link an isolated quarter in the town center vith
the rest of the town);



- 57 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 3 of 19
(ii) de-isolation of Woudi neighborhood (rebuilding of a small bridge
10 to 12 m long); and
(iii)  concerning urban management, the priority actions required
would involve the organization of the marketplace, since daily
vendor's license fees could contribute to the funding of a
permanent maintenance and vaste removal service.
(b) In Kankan, very old infrastructure which has not been maintained for
many years requires complete rehabilitation. This is the case of the
central collector drain of vhich a first section is being rebuilt with
funds from the Government's investment budget.
Under the EDF study, DATU-CEPUR included in its list of major vorks
to be undertaken the creation of a nev primary road, part of which
vould follow the alignment of the old airport landing strip, which has
already been set aside for this purpose. The clearing of the
right-of-way for a 1,800 m section linking the road to Rissidougou to
the road to Conakry is to be financed under the EDF program.
It is proposed that the Second Urban Project finances
(i)  The next stage in the rehabilitation of the central drainage
system (estimated cost, about US$1 M); and
(ii) construction of the roadway and roadside drainage for an
1,800 meter section of the new primary road mentioned above
(estimated cost, about US$700,000).
Urban management priorities vould involve. (i) rehabilitation of the
bus and truck depot; (ii) establishment of a household vaste collection
and disposal service; and (iii) improvement of market management.
(c)  In Labé, DATU-CEPUR is currently preparing a Structure Plan under the
EDF project and thus has not yet completed the identification of
priority projecte.   Two tasks have nonetheless been prcposed for
inclusion in the Second Urban Project, both involving drainages
Mi) construction of roadside drainage canals along roads in the
town center where virtually all economic activity takes place
(detailed studies and justification for this project have not
yet been prepared but the cost has been estimated at about
US$1.3 N); and
(ii) reconstruction of stream-beds acting as primary drains,
including erosion control for embankments and stream-bed
cleaning and recalibration (cost estimated at about US$300,000).
(d)  In N'Zérékoré, two priority tasks have been identified by DATU-CEPUR
through the EDF project for financing by the Second Urban Projects
(i) establishment of a new truck and bus depot at the entrance to
the city to replace the current depot which is poorly situated



- 58 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 4 of 19
and causes traffic probleme (estimated costs about US$200,000):
and
tii) rehabilitation of Dorota Market and surrounding area, subject
to frequent flooding due to its location in a basin formation
(cost estimated at US$300,000).
6.        The total cost of the works identified in the cities of the country's
interior is estimated at about US$4.5 M.  Detailed technical studies are not
available for these works. The required engineering studies vill therefore need
to be financed under the Second Urban Project and cost estimates vill need to
be updated: once this information is in hand, the component may need to be
adjusted to stay vithin the amounts reserved .4n the project budget. In order
not to overload the DATU's Urban Roads Division which is to oversee execution
of these works, it would be desirable to stage the works in successive phases,
one town at a time.
7.        The strenttheninR of MEH units responsible for planning and supervision
of the above works involves the following tasks:
(a)  engineering studies for vorks financea tnder the project, in addition
to those already carried out under the First Urban Project;
<b) technical assistance intended to reinforce DATU's Urban Roade and
Drainage Division to allow it to carry out its mission to oversee
execution of all civil vorks included in the Second Urban Project; and
(c) feasibility and engineering studies, as vell as environmental
assessments for a follov-up infrastructure project in Conakry.
II. HOUSING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT OPERATION
8.        A housing polic7 study for Guinea, financed by UNDP vith the Bank as
the executing agency, has recommended that development of sites for self-help
housing construction in urban expansion zones on Conakry's periphery should be
considered a priority undertaking, vith the goal of offering to households vho
build there:
(a)  security vith respect to the structure they erect, by assuring them
that it conforms to zoning and site occupancy regulations;
(b) house connections to utility services and site connections to road
and related networks which benefit all residents including tenants;
and
(c) security of tenure.
A. Underlving Princioles for Land Development Ooerations
9.        Execution of land development operations vill be based on the
application of a certain number of proposals f rom the housing policy study which
shall constitute the underlving princioles for such oPerations, to vit:



- 59 -                        AMNEX  2-1
Page 5 of 19
(a) Public authorities are responsible for preparing a development plan
for each new housing site.  They are also to undertake basic site
development by constructing secondary roads and drainage vorks, forming
what is generally known as the basic infrastructure network.
(b) Water and electricity utilities are to install water and electricity
networks for each site in accordance vith priced bille of quantity.
(c)  These roade and networks vill define residential areas in the form of
blocks averaging about 10 ha which require subdivision and tertiary
vorks.
(d)  Subdivision of these blocks is to be given over to public or semipublic
developers who vill receive permission to subdivide and occupy the
block as vell as a land grant.
(e) Subdivision permits shall designate for each block the developer who
is responsible and shall obligate this developer and any contractor
vhom he shall engage to abide by certain minimum development and
infrastructure standards applying to all block subdivision and tertiary
vorks, as vell as to repay a share of basic infrastructure costs.
(f) Developers may themselves carry out subdivision and tertiary works or
may subcontract all or part of their block to private agents or to
business groupe or homebuilders' associations.   If the developer
undertakes subdivision and tertiary vorks on his own, he may do s0
directly using hie own resources or he may do so indirectly by engaging
the services of another firm to whom he delegates authority to act in
hie stead.
(g)  As long as he abides by the minimum development and infrastructure
standards, the developer and by delegation hie agents are not othervise
constrained. They are for example free to propose to the eventual plot
residents whatever system of purchase or payment, association or
cooperation they may agree on.
(h)  The priLciple of cost recovery for basic infrastructure from those
making use of the land shall take the form of a required land
development fee considered as a one-shot contribution by these users
to offset public infrastructure expenditure.
Ci) Public-private developers and private contractors are required to pay
up front the land development fee which they may recover from the
ultimate site occupants.
B. Development Principles for the Proyosed ODeration
10.       In order to get the program underway, the planning, infrastructure
and development principles outlined above have been applied to a site which had
been covered in the Housing Policy Study and selected in accordance vith the
options presented in the Conakry Structure Plan prepared under the Firet Urban
Project. The site in question is Lambanyi-Kobaya.



- 60 -                        ANMEX  2-1
Page 6 of 19
11.       Strategically the choice of this site is justified by the fact that
lt i8 locatedi
(a) near the perimeter of existing settlements yet still very sparsely
settled, which should keep to a minimum any eventual expropriation;
and
(b)  close to potential primary infrastructure, Roads T4 and T5, and to a
vater reservoir to be constructed beginning in 1992.
12.       Physically the choice of the site is justified bys
(a) its pleasing natural terrain, gently sloping with good soil, variety
of sight lines and landscape views; and
(b) it may easily be divided into three operational tranches of about
200 ha each, corresponding to the annual capacity for development of
serviced housing sites called for in the housing policy.
13.       An initial site layout plan has been prepared.   It is based on a
subdivision network structure following the recommendations of the housing
policys on the basis of existing primary infrastructure (to vit, the northern
coastal road running parallel to the sea, the ridge road which runs in the same
direction, and, cutting these, Roads T4 and TS), a network of secondary roads
and drains -- known as the basic infrastructure network -- defines large blocks
which constitute unite ready for subdivision and tertiary works.
14.       This road and drainage network forms the site's urban planning
structure. The initial site layout plan makes use of the service and infrastruc-
ture standards laid down in the Urban Master Plan for the Conakry. The shape
and size of the blocks outlined by the basic infrastructure network vary due to
terrain. Blocks vary in mize f rom 8 to 12 ha. No point on these blocks nor any
future site resident is located more than 150 m from a primary or secondary road.



- 61  -                             AIM!EX  2-1 i
Page  7 of e9
%Amomm
VtNORD ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -   -"' .                      c'Z
,%* tS StS WtlIfIlS
'OES
1<IW. 'f Uit tifillhi GW
- A    t44 ;E ct0-                   



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       I
vteLvISS  £Dn ms o(tl fLi t1                                                                                     à _
CUUJP ab KM Ilm SUE UNieSl 0                                 1ou £  10 Nie.lS  I A C_ *lfs  oAl 5, #
amolli ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ttm msg paim                                                             '-I
.,  .                                                                                                                                            À
\"'a~~~~~~.. ........
_                                                                              JJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
.,,    I    ,  _             "                      =                                                    Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



- 63 -                        AMNEX  2-1
Page 9 of 19
15.       Proposed civil works have been designed according to strict principles
of folloving the existing contours of the land and minimizing costss
(a)  The road alignments follow the terrain's natural contours and pavements
are built of compacted laterite materials with a cross profile sloped
to one side.
(b)  Drainage  is  provided by  earth  drains  located within  the  road
rights-of-way, with road crossings via circular metal culverts and
simplified inlet works.
16.       The cost of civil works to install these secondary roads and drains
forming the basic infrastructure network has been estimated as follows for a
first phase of 200 ha (in 1989 FG)s
Roada:
- 16* right.-of-uay: 2,900 a x F0 120,100/m  u F0 848,80,01O
129 a rlht-ot_-ays :,6W . x F0 96,00W/m    F0 6a2.010.000
Subtotal                                 F0 880,000,00
Drain s
- Lateral drain:s 9,100 a x F 6,6W»/     - FO 59,160,000
- 12. crossInge t 1? unit. x F0 1,656,000/unlt * F0 26,77n,00
- U6 crossi ng t  6 unit. x F0 1,780,000/unit a F0  8.860.000
Subtotal                                 F0 94,676,000
Total                                       FO 974.676.00W
17.       The surface area is composed as follows:
Total rea                                            20W ha    1001
Road right*-of *ay                                    40 ha     201
Unoultable for bul Iding and resrvd for public use    20 ha     lO
Net plot ares, that le, bul Idable arte              140 ha     701
18.       On a buildable square meter basis, basic infrastructure cost works
out to FG 700 per square meter. Adding in the cost of engineering studies,
physical contingencies and works supervision, the average cost price is
FG 1,000 per square meter of buildable surface.
C.  Impleu_ntation Procedures for the ProDosed GOeration
19.       Institutional procedures for implementing land development operations
are covered in the recommendations of the Housing Policy Study for Guinea and
have been spelled out in a detailed action plan (see Annex 2-2). The respective
responsibilities of the various agencies involved in this oleration are described
below.



- 64 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 10 of 19
20.       The overall site plan is to be prepared by DATU (MUW).  This plan
shall present iu detailed guidelines for infrastructure levels for the various
stages of the operation.  After the Presidential Decree on urban roads and
extension areas, this plan vill be binding on all parties; it shall protect the
site as a whole to prevent its illegal occupation and shall confirm that the
vorks to be carried out are in the public interest, thus formally setting aside
the land required for infrastructure and other public facilities.
21.       The State <MUHIDATU) executes secondary infrastructure civil vorks.
By means of an agreement between the State and the city of Conakry, the city
binds itself to accept responsibility for maintenance of these infrastructure
once they sr completed.
22.       Eazh of the subdivision blocks shall be assigned to a developer.  The
decision to make this assignment involves both land tenure law and urban planning
regulation. It shall take the form of a development authorization order (arrêté
d'autorisation d'aménagement) signed by the Minister responsible for urban
planning and land administration. In order to retain maximum flexibility, this
authorization should be as unencumbering as rossible. It binds the developer
to respect basic planning regulations and guidelines concerning spatial layout
<minimum plot size, provision of at least valkway access for each plot).
23.       The developer shall hand over to the central land administration
offices (DAPO) and to the final user, once the user vill have paid the required
fees and complied vith occupancy regulations, the documents which shall allow
the user to apply to for a legal tenure document (certificate of occupancy).
24.       The land development fee is payable by every user vithin a block.  It
represents the user's contribution to the public provision of infrastructure,
i.e. the investment realized by the public sector in providing for secondary
infrastructure. It is a one-shot payment of a legal and parafiscal nature and
is to be collected in the following manner.  The plot user vithin a block
developed by a public developer is to pay in the fee under supervision of the
said developer. The plot user vithin a block developed by a semipublic or a
private developer shall reimburse the latter for the fee which he has already
paid up front in order to receive authorization to develop the block or to be
delegated this authority.
25.       The receipts from this fee are to be deposited in the revolving fund
for urban land development operations. This special account, established in a
commercial bank and requiring two signatures for vithdraval, vill assure the
replicability of basic infrastructure operations. Management of this account
is the responsibility of the Urban Development Steering Conumittee made up of
representatives of Goverament %MUE), the City of Conakry, Soloprimo and the vater
and electricity utilities.
D. Implementation Reauirements
26.       Three conditions must be fulfilled prior to start of implementationt
two legal instruments must be adopteds (i) the order (ordonnance) establishing
the land development fee and the revolving fund for land development operations,
and (ii) the decree (decret) creating the Steering Coamittee on Urban Land
Development; and (iii) a commitment must be made to assign a third of the
buildable area to private land developers.



- 65 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page Il of 19
27.       The first condition is the promulgation of an order (ordonnance)
establishing A land development fee for sites specifically developed by the
public sector and making it possible to create a Special Account for land
development at a commercial bank.
28.       The second condition deals with the composition of the entity directing
the land development operation. An order is to be adopted which creates the
committee vith responsibility for overseeing the program of housing site
developments. The decree shall define not only the tripartite composition of
this committee -- Government, City, Soloprimo -- but its powers as vell.
29.       The third condition refera to the requirement for private land
developers to occupy a third of the buildable surface (net plot area).  The
fulfillment of this obligation is to be ascertained after the fact; the condition
involves a commitment to respect tbe requirement.
III. SUPPORT TO SMALL CONSTRUCTION ENTERPRISES
30.       The small construction enterprises component would have as its
objective, continued support to a program initiated under the First Urban Project
vith help f rom the Canadian NGO, CECI. This program involves ongoing management
and accounting training, creation of a technical and commercial database, as vell
as specific assistance to individual enterprises.
31.       This program, established with the close collaboration of existing
enterprises, in particular those belonging to the National Union of Guinean
Entrepreneurs (UNEG-BTP) created in July 1989, vill also analyze requirements
for the creation of a mutual guarantee fund to facilitate accesa to bonding for
contract start-up advance.
IV. URBAN INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
32.       The main objective of this component is to develop the capacity of
existing institutions to manage urban services efficiently:
(a) for the city of Conakry, taking into consideration the gradual
vithdraval by 1995 of Government and World BaiE financial support to
UPSU's operating budget; and
(b) for cities in the country's interior by mobilizing urban management
capacity vithin existing institutions.
33.       To enable the new local institutions (city and communes) of Conakry
to take over from Government the funding of UPSU operations, the portion of this
component which concerns Conakry is divided into three tasks: (a) mobilization
of local resources, which is the most critical; (b) improvements in technical
and financing management of UPSU, equally necessary; and <c) effort invested on
these two fronts can only be truly efficient if they are taking place vithin a
clearly defined institutional and financial framework.



- 66 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 12 of 19
A. Resource Mobilization for Conakry
34.       The Conakry resource mobilization component provides fort
(a) Technical assistance for the city's financial services which should
also benefit the commmes.  Two technical assistants vill need to be
recruited.
(b)  Consultant supDort for two essential tasks:  preparation of a fiscal
reference map for maintaining tax rolls (croquis fiscal), and design
of a system for identifying taxable property, taxpayers and other
fiscal information.
35.       The firet technical assistant vill be assigned to the City Treasurer
(chef des services financiers de la ville) and would carry out the folloving
essential taskss
(a) participate in the preparation of city and communal budgets;
(b) maintain accounts, in close cooperation vith the city comptroller
(tresorier payeur) and municipal tax collector;
(c) monitor UPSU budget preparation;
sd) coordinate as effectively as possible the various stages of tax
administration involving tax and Treasury offices under the Governor's
authority;
(e) organise sad start up specific services, in particular a system for
administering market fees;
(f) participate in drafting the enabling legislation for new resources
(taxes and fees) for self-financing of local government entities;
(g) participate in the revision of legislation dealing vith local taxation;
(h) gradually introduce the tools of analytic accounting for the city and
communes; and
(i) monitor local tax billings and collections through use of an annual
indicators.
36.       The second technical assistant would focus on the definition and
introduction of techniques and approaches designed to estimate resource potential
more accurately, facilitate the identification and location of taxpayers and
fee payers, and improve efficiency of collections operations. To this end the
technical assistant shouldt
(a)  organize and coordinate an annual census operation to update rolls of
local taxpayers in Conakry;
(b)  design and introduce a system to mark the location of taxable property
and fiscal entities on a fiscal reference map to be prepared under the
project (croquis fiscal);



- 67 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 13 of 19
(c) design and develop tax database (fichiers fiscaux) based initially on
exploitation of existing information available in varlous offices
(DATU-DAFO within MUE, the cadastral documentation of the Finance
Ministry, the National Tax Office, the vehicle administration offices
of DGCA vithin SET, Chambers of Commerce and Industry);
(d) design indicators for nonitoring billings and collections of local
taxes; and
(e) assure the transmission of data relevant to estimates of fiscal
potential and of tax bases to those responsible for local tax billings.
37.       Preiaration of a Tax Reference May.  A photomosaic at 122000 scale
should be assembled from aerial photographe and used as a base map for locating
and marking various tazable entities (land, property and professional taxation).
(a) In the initial stages, appropriate graphic symbols should be marked
by hand on acetate overlays.   Data may be gathered from existing
cartographic sources (water and electricity utilities), DAPO files and
other sources to be identified over the project period.
(b) Base maps should al8o be distributed to field agents responsible for
the annual tax census, who should vork vith neighborhood leaders to
laprove over time the quality of mappable fiscal information.
38.       Design and Introduction of Tax Databases and of a SYstem to Locate and
Mark Taxable Entities on the Base Hai.  These work sheets should cover at least
the folloving revenue sources:
(a) taxes on professional activities (the patente and licenses);
(b) property taxes; and
(c) vehicle taxes (automobile registration rolla).
39.       A system for locating and marking the tax base on the map should be
vorked out on the basis ofs
(a) a principle for dividing the base map into sections and subsections
which will be most appropriate for billing and collection of property
taxes and of the patente;
(b)  A principle for assigning addresses (street names, block or area
designations, etc.); and
(c) a principle for coding information which allows for easy
cross-referencing between the work sheet data and the graphic symbole
marked on the map.



-68 -                         AMNEX  2-i
Page 14 of 19
40.       Logistic support and upgradina of staff qualifications vill requiret
(a)  improving vorking conditions for city treasury staff of the city of
Conakry on the one hand and for staff of tax and Treasury offices
located in Conakry on the other. Basically this involves support to
the equipment of the offices in which these staff are located;
(b)  provision of computer hardware and software, office equipment and
furniture for the above staff; and
(c)  provision of field transport  required for efficient tax cenuus
operations at a quicker pace than at present (cars and mopeds).
41.       Upsradinx of staff aualifications vill require training activities
for the staff mentioned above.   Three complementary types of training are
envisageds
(a)  remedial and refresher courses to be provided locally on an ongoing
basis by city and commune treasury staffs and by tax and Treasury
a,,ents concerned vith Conakry local resources;
<b)  specific training courses tailored to address major deficiencies or
desiderata identified during refresher sessions. One-week workshops
bringing in staff in equivalent functions from other countries could
be organized in Conakry along the lines of those held to train CRD
(Communautés Rurales de Développement) managers, organized and finance
by French aid (FAC); and
(c)  overseas courses lasting a month at agencies and offices carrying out
the same functions and responsibilities, or at specialized training
facilities.
B.  Support to UPSU
42.       Support to UPSU in order to improve management of its services vould
take fo   formsa   (a) a study of internal organization;  (b) management and
accountuncy training activities to be supplemented by training in other areas
to be identified over the course of the project; (c) minor equipment purchase,
whose coste can be charged directly to beneficiaries of its services; and
(d) operating budget support to be determined as outlined in Anmex 2-3 as a
function of available funds.
43.       The internal organization study vould:
(a)  determine the most appropriate status for UPSU vithin the framework
of the new municipal institutions, while taking into account the need
to maintain its budgetary and legal autonomy;
(b)  assess staff capabilities, review pay scales, identify civil aervice
staff who should be transferred to UPSU given its new 8tatus, along
vith the training they vill need;
(c) propose an internal reorganization which vould optimize the allocation
of human and other resources to the tasks for which UPSU is respon-



- 69 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 15 of 19
sible, and vhich would allow subcontracting of labor-intensive tasks
for which UPSU is less qualified;
(d) determine the cost of services rendered in real terms as a function
of levels of service delivered in administrative, residential and
low-income areas, as vell as waste disposal services performed for
industrial and commercial clients and at markets; and
(e) recommend appropriate cost recovery methode for UPSU self-financing
(billing of industrial and commercial clients, other users' fees).
44.       Improvement of UPSU's technical capacit?.  Equipment to be purchased
are intended to improve the quality of service UPSU delivers (in particular those
services which can be directly billed to their beneficiaries) and to increase
the volume of service delivered vithout increasing staffing levels.
(a) The most important investment is the purchase of a truck outfitted
with de-sludging equipment (estimated cost: US$135,000), which besides
increasing the efficiency of drainage maintenance operations for an
expanding drainage network, should allow collection of revenue through
direct billing of services rendered to public and private clients.
(b) Purchase of a wheeled backhoe loader (estimated costt US$75,000), to
replace the existing Manitou loader vhich is ill-adapted to digging
work, vill provide UPSU vith a multipurpose machine (clearing various
types of refuse, loading trucks, cleaning large drains, digging
ditches).
(c) Procurement of a high-pressure tanker truck with high-pressure washing
and spraying equipment (estimated cost: US$100,000) vill permit regular
washing of streets and public places, extinction of fires which too
frequently break out in refuse bine, and cleaning of these bins and
their immediate surroundings, if possible even their disinfection.
It is proposed that concrete platforms installed at bin locations to
allow for these areas to be kept clean and disinfected.
(d) Purchase of 40 bins of 5 to 6 cubic meter capacity (estimated total
costs US$92,000) to make it possible to fully outf it city vards II and
III which currently are very poorly served. These containers vill be
provided with covers to improve their appearance and prevent scattering
of refuse while in transit.
(e) Replacement of the mobile drainage pump (estimated cost: US$5,500),
currently defunct, is required sincc this machine is very much in
demand during the rainy season, considering the persistent inadequacies
of the rainvater drainage network despite past investments.
(f) Addition of a third fuel tank at the municipal garage (estimated costs
US$12,000) vill protect UPSU from current fuel shortages which too
often leave trucks grounded.
(g) Provision of a supply of manhole covers (estimated costs US$15,000)
offers a low-cost method of reducing the workload of teams responsible
for vaste vater drain maintenance for a modest overall investment



- 70 -                        AMNEX  2-1
Page 16 of 19
(about US$150 apiece), and one which offers UPSU staff an opportunity
to gain experience in small masoury works vithin the framework of its
maintenance mission. This purchase could lead the way te subsequent
extension of this experiences success in installing the initial batch
of manhole covers should increase the city's motivation to gradually
restore its drainage networks.
(h)  Purchase  of four connection vehicles  and spare parts vital to
automobile maintenance (estimated costs US$120,000) is also included
vith the expectation that improvements in UPSU's future financial
situation will allow it to replenish this stock vith its own resources.
(i)  Lastly, purchase of hand tools (estimated costt US$20.000) required
for efficient manual labor must be included in order to allow more
advanced methods of vaste collection and street sweeping (wheelbarrows,
shovels,  pitchforks).    This category also includes purchase of
protective gear for the most vulnerable staff, workers in the drainage
division (gloves, boots, vork slickers).
C.  Institutional and Financial Strenathenina of Conakry City and Commes
45.       This project element  involves  consultant  services  to advise on
municipal tax reform and on the clarification of the institutional and financial
framework in which the city and communes of Conakry are to carry out their
responsibilities.
46.       Municinal Tax Reform.  Consultants' proposals should deal with the
following three issuess (a) fiscal reform; (b) specific measures and enabling
legislation required for new local government revenues; and (c) specific levels
of Goverument contribution to the operating budgets of the city and communes of
Conakry.
47.       The municipal tax reform essentially concerns the patente on the one
hand and property taxes on the other.
(a) Restructurina the Patentes The complexity of the current structure.of
this tax has been emphasized, along with the difficulty of updating
the various  rates and enforcing the present  legislation.    The
consultants' proposals should therefore indicatet
(i)  gradual updating of rate levels;
(il)  simplification of the existing legislation ln partl ilar the
classification structure for business activities; and
(iii)  changing the tax base in the case of the so-called modern sector
by introducing a percentage rate on annual turnover or gross
sales.



- 71 -                      ANNEX  2-1
Page 17 of 19
(b) Revision of Proyertv Taxes: The consultante' recommendations should
address the following issuest
Mi) whether or not to retain the housing tax (taxe d'habitation);
if so, how should it be structured; if not, proposed measures
for integrating existing property taxations (housing tax and
tax on vacant land);
(ii)  simplifled methods of assessment and updating of property rental
values; and
(iii)  eventual adjustment of the rates and categories of property.
48.       DraftinR of LeRislation to Create New Local Govermnnent Revenues.  The
proposals should deal with taxes and fees to be introduced in the new fiscal and
financial structure for Conakry and its communes, to wits
(a) the proposed infrastructure tax (taxe d'équipement);
(b) the sanitation tax;
(c) the annual permit fees for occupancy of the city and communes' land
holdings; and
td) the street sweeping tae.
49.       Determinina Siecific Levels of Government Contribution to the Operating
Budaets of the City and Communes of Conakry. The consultants should participate
in the drafting of legislation setting out the conditions, methods for
calculating, and criteria for sharing out this contribution among the city and
comnes.
50.       The purpose of the task involving clarification of the institutional
and financial framework of local governments in Conakry vould be to assist in
the preparation of legal instruments classifying the respective land holdings
of the city and communes of Conakry on the one hand, and on the other to draft
legislation enabling the transfer of all revenues from the patente and the
vehicle tax collected in Conakry to be credited to theiz use, rather than only
a portion thereof as is currently the case.
51.       The issue of assigning responsibility for public vorks among Government
agencies, especially roads and drains, vill depend on decisions to be embodied
in the future property and land codes. If these do not provide for land to be
held in trust by local governments (domaine privé pour les collectivités
territoriales), another solution vill need to be vorked out to assure a clear
division of responsibilities between central Government and the various local
governments, in particular as regards infrastructure maintenance.



- 72 -                        ANMEX  2-1
Page 18 of 19
D. Urban Management in Secondarv Cities
52.       The proposed action program has two main objectivess
(a)  To stimulate the growth of a caracity for urban management vithin
existing institutions.  In each of the four cities in the program
administrative authority is vested in the prefect. Administrative
decentralization has created or retained gneighborhood committees,"
coordinated by a subprefect, but these have no responsibility for
managing urban services nor tax collection.
Vithout vaiting for the establisbment of future urban communes, the
potential capacity and means for action vithin these existing
institutions, hovever limited, must be identified and conditions for
activating this potential must be satisfied.
(b)  To aDplv this nev cavacity to a few simule and limited tasks.  In
parallel vith the implementation of a priority investment program,
three basic initiatives are required vithin existing institutions:
(i) an initial structure for coordination and decision-making with
respect to urban management issues, to accustom local officials
reporting to different ministries to vork together and address
the problems vith which urban residents are coping on an
everyday basis5
Cii)  an initial effort to collect some local revenue in order to
finance the most pressing maintenance activities demanded by
the business community and the general population (for examples
cleaning and vaste removal in the market place, drain cleaning
in certain critical areas, etc.); and
(iii)  a first attempt at basic accounting se that the agency involved
can gain some experience vith controlling its revenue and
allocating it to expenditure commitments.
53.       In each of the cities the action program would includes
(a)  a rapid review of existing institutional resources in order to identify
where capacity and means for action exist and what the priority act4
for urban management vould be; and
(b)  agreement vith local authorities (the prefect) on a program of actions
covering several years and including setting up of local resource
collections and basic accouating mechanisms, programming of actions
to be undertaken, and a procedure for measuring progress.
54.       The support furnished by the Second Urban Project vould take the form
of activities to make the authorities and neighborhood leaders avare of the
issues (public education), training activities (vorkshops draving together
participants from several cities), and material support and technical assistance
for the eatablishment of the beginnings of functioning urban management. To this
end the project vould finances



- 73-                         ANNEX  2-1
Page 19 of 19
(a) a permanent technical assistant responsible for keeping the secondary
cities program moving and on track throughout the project period;
(b)  short-term consultant visits to carry out analysis and program design
and monitoring;
(c) logistic support and supplies to help motivate local authorities to
keep the temporary new arrangement functioning;
(d) lastly, the material and human resources necessary to carry out public
education and training activities in the progras.
APlIN
February 13, 1990
b" m  - A»as-var
Oléeli. - (mm4)



- 74 -
REPULUC OF Our                                  pag  a av 
SECON UIiSAN PROJECt
Action Plon for Nousina end Lbond D.v-lo.m_t Ccmoomnt
Objectives                 Alioo-Lmgîmlmtion-D cluim                           Rempon9ible         Dat,
1    Etabilbh co¢t rece-    Amour. execution of decre.. (d6cret.) reervingO                               1 *Ju. 9
vary pllcy. Incremnc     land  for  future  ue   mund   u1horluing  the
the rol- of prlwatI    construet.on of nme urban reod  ln Conakry.
desvlopore               Approven mablng l.luationi: Ordmr (ord.nnonc.)
creating  Icnd dvslqom_t ftes end *tabilalino
urban Infrastructure eccount.  Decr   (d6cret)
puttlng  th. tax end occount i nte  tffect end
umsrving a third  f site to b. dmvelop.d by
privats desvlop.ro.
2.   Emtablih  structure    Approve Inlemilstsril eoder (arrélé) crsttng                mU               1 Jun. le
te eOverme operatton     Stemrin  Coeltt o for Urbon Land DOvelop_ent
40leeltng of Rsprm.etatlvm of Oovermut
--Mlnletri.  of Hou.int  (UNH), Finance mnd Int.-
rlo-r of the Clty of Conakry mnd of Soloprimo,
end et publile utilItlee (voter, leclltrcity,
t.'-ne).
8    Selcet   *ltts   end    For,erd UUH document. to th Counell  of MHlnltrm           MUH/DATU          1 Oct. se
etart dmmlon etudoe       (I) deslgun:ting mite. to b. dsvlopod;
- Ctl) tnltlatnenguinm.riung tudlesi;
tiil) Iiuitlting sit. layout etudits.
4    Df tte  esi of col-    Coeignin by the Oovern_t, repre snted by MM,                MUH/DATI         1 Oct. le
labortletn   batwon    end thb  Clty, reprosuntmd by  be. overnor, of en
thm   overnmmet  end    *grma_t  (convention)s  (1)  ctaorizling  the
th. Clty, *oigniing    types of civil sorkm tobs conmtructad; (it) des-
re_pon.tbltlty   fer                                         es  thting  Oo.rnam nt  (MI/DATI)  *    h    eol
colmooing    end    *x.cuting mgsncy for *1l *ecendmry Infrauatrctur
-MItalulne the baste    *rk;  (nii) inetluig th  *xculiug mamncy te
Infrastructure,   lI      uiltste t chnleal  tudte  *nd te undrtake *11
ordmr to  Initlet        ncm_ ry  ctolen  r.gsrding utility copénivr'
techuicol studioe for    (IV) dsfiuiig r.quiresmntt  for  mIuntancn  und
thb work lun queston    for bonding over of sokes (v) dsfining  the
scbhuale o for  carryag out th  *gr_mmnt.
6    Amour. rplle billty    Cotnfr  coot recovery *rrugonm_to by en ordmr                St  rtng         Ocetber OS
tbrough coot recovery    (arrMté) dfluinui  the princlplos for sliocatin          Comeltte  à
frm benficlerle           losd developmnt tfs ameng developero end tb.            MUH/DATU
procedur  for céleulsI,ng thlb.  *hares for mil
intrfmtructur  project.  Celeulat. lb  oeot of
carrylng out Mhe project, dut ruln  th. appro-
prlmt Infrastructure service levlel, end en thls
buolo, Initltto tchulcol mtudles.
S.   Soi Id Ooernmmt-fi-    Avord *orke contrcto for basic Infrastructure                DATU             1 July Si
nsncod basic Infra-       ourke  lI  ecorddnce *Ith public  bddling end
*tucture n                etrect  *ard procedur..



- 75 -
REPUBC OF WUNE                                F      oi 
SECOM  UR   PROJECT
Action Pion for Hfouelno end-Land Dev lor_ont C    _PfM
Objec«  e o     tivelo    lelncleloms                                        Ronelblo          De
Apuy
7     pljy cont rcswry    Eecue en Ordr (arr1) .uubitshlng Oh. *0l                   SOearlug         1 Oct. O1
prinreplp. to t1he.      nut of land developeu tes to b. col Ieb  ,             C itt.e
worlse                   bssd on thto total _ounté of  lgnod workso con-
trisaI. Ops. ol  r.volvIng fund for sund dvol-
_p.et opeetlons. Orgnlze a round-bilo m_eeI
In for th. devolopere la order to * lgu epse-
ltle *lto .
a    DOrs   up  Itet  d       MiHlen1 rlol order (errftl  mlnlmUrUul) baud on        Steerlan         1 Oct. Si
poltontll     damai-    recomadation of tk  Storrler  Co 1ttou for              Comltte
opore lndlcatln l1nd    Urben Land Developenu.
dovolopeont   teo
_momnte to b. pold
9    Formel  bndlug over   Silgnlg by UWU-OAW U    of tflcel  mInutes et eh*           JI/DATU        1 cet. el
of eoeoedery  intra-    *tege of hsuding over of iutr strucure *orks end
strueture eorke         olnig    t     *oo 0f u eg   e   (couv.ntlon) by MUR end
1h  City conuernnu InfrsetrucCure mlentonne.
10   lniîlate block *ubdl-    SIslgai  by UN oft devolopuent egro_.tes ( err         IUlIDATU         1 Oct. ei
liolon procsc           d'cutorloi6lon) ulth  esch of tho dolegutd de-
volopors ne onch *tege ft brole Infrastructure
vorke la co_pla4 d, mpmclfvlng 1h. *meunt of l0nd
devolopent fo. du. or refuindeble for *sch devel-
opr,  nd o*oUbileoing dov.lop_mnt guidelne. eo
b. rspected by th plot *lIotteo.  Prosentatlon
0f theoe *gre_ments te prlivtI end omipubili
devolopors la conditionul on settlement of tholr
annd devolop_ent tf, account .
Il   Porilt publile devel-    Public developrs (Oov.rn_nt, Cilty) may delogalt       DATU/            1 Oet. et
opera lo  uboontrect    th  executlion of cor lan tluks to Soloprlmo se         SOLOPRIO
vorke lo profeti suon l  ubcontrector under lerme of au agrome_   (con-
dev-lopern              vontlon d'opération) to b. drév up by the public
a_ey end Soloprlo.  A etsncard agre_mt for.
l lto b. drfttod by Solopla,o end flnollaod by
DATU.
12   Ouérentee land tnure    Arrange for eil devoloper.  o subllt to land            DATU/DAFO        1 Jan. et
ee_rly to sllotle      authorltl1 s (DAFO)   oIte plun end   Il lt of plot
of eubdllded plotC       *llotoue .lthin cach bloek ecuordin  le s ood l
plan proposd by DATU snd epprovod by DAFO.
Jenuary 17, 1900
dié:s dm



- 76 -                     ANNEX  2-3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
UPSU FINANCING PLAN
1.        The objective is to reach by 1995 a full balance between UPSU'8
resources and expenses estimated at FG 1,000,000,000 of Nov. 89, (US$1,670.000
equivalent) while allowing gradual withdrawal of World Bank support to UPSU
financing. This withdrawal must be offset by an increase in financial support
by Conakry's local governments, in line vith the growth of their own resources
(see Annex 1-3).
2.        It is estimated that UPSU could function normally in 1990 with a budget
of about FG 550 million, not including personnel and replacement costs.  The
financing plan presented below allovs UPSU to cover all personnel costs from its
own budget beginning in 1993, prior to which they are assumed by Government.
It also makes provision for internal financing of replacement of supplies and
equipment, including those acquired under the Second Urban Project.
Table 1. WPSUJ Incoc Proctions to 1995
(F0 Millons of Nov. 1989)
1990   1991   1992   1908   1094   1996
Internai Sources                                11.0   44.0   112.t  140.C  179.9
Local Oovermnotn Sourc                  44.0   90.0  270.0  8a9.0  429.2   650.0
orid Bank Contrlbution                  120.0  120.0   90.0   W0.0   40.0       -
State Counterpart Funding               18.0  180.0  lu8.0  100.0   60.0
state Contributlon
- Support Staff Salory                106.0   90.0   20.0      -       -       -
- Subeldy                                                  00.0  100.0   1 "  0   100.0  100.0  100.0
Total                                   660.00         ee.e  012.2  ?69.7  829.
3.        UP3U's financing sources other than decreasing support from the World
Bank and Gorernment's counterpart funding would therefore be as followvs
(a)  Conakry local Roverrment contribution.  The principle of an annual
contribution to UPSU's budget, which vas assumed a priori during the
preparation of the local government budgets, should be adopted and take
the form of a requirement to include such contributions in the
expenditure estimates of these entities. An overall amount should be
indicated, to be drawn from total estimated revenues of vhatever
source, fiscal or othervise, rather than from a specific or earmarked
source.



- 77 -                     ANNEX  2-3
Page 2 of 2
Table 2. Partilciation of Conakry Local Governmnte ln WSU Financina
(F0 millons of Nov. 1989)
1996   1991    1992    1998    1994    199l
Total Local Covesnumnt Revenu«        612    879   1,268   1,816   1,988    2,162
Contrlbutlon to UPSU                   44     90      270   889.8   429.2       a6u
Contrlbutlon/Revenuu                 0f07   0.10    0.21    0.19    0.22    0.26
This contribution should level off at about 252 beginning in 1995,
which seems a reasonable amount to pay for operation of most urban
services not already provided by public utilities (water, electricity,
public transport). This vould leave half of local governments' budget
for their own operations and a quarter for investment.
It should be clear that any reduction in the level of local government
contributions to UPSU's financing would result in a downward revision
of its budget and service levels.
(b)  Internal UPSU Resources. For the most part, these resources would come
from UPSU's industrial and commercial clients who would be billed for
services rendered (see Annex 1-2, para. 23).
A limit of FG 180 million has been deliberately set on UPSU's internal
resources due to difficulties foreseeable in the implementation of this
principle.   It is nonetheless possible that the results may exceed
these estimaces since UPSU vill be using the business tax database to
be constituted in Conakry with the support of this project.
tc)  Central Government support vill also be provided. in consideration of
the value of UPSU'8 services in the nation's capital to the national
interest.
4.        World Bank contribution, according to the progressive phasing out
described above, vould be disbursed out of the proposed project's credit, subject
to the folloving conditions included in the Credit Agreement:
(a)  the annual review of the participation of Conakry Local Governments
in UPSU financing, as indicated in their respective budgets; and
(b)  the confirmation of the effective transfer tu UPSU's budget of the
contribution of Conakry local government during the corresponding
budgetary period.
AFlIN
January 31, 1990
Job Zd -A:Man-8.ma
DOan.t.  (tom)



- 74 _                                   t        2-4
Pag 1 of 4
MUIJC OF  DEAU    I IEIUE  DE OUDIE
SECOI Umm POJECT I OMurn£ PO7 wUJll
Cout Table end Finanein. Plan / CoOte du rolot,et plan de f*Inncemt
Oase Cot as of .uae SMW  Uet8 lmi          Cot de be Jin l008, aliilon de eU)
-             Fl~~~PnancinelPinance.nt
CatWeoy / Catgorle                                  Total  IDA    COF    @,'t
A.  US   IN1               OVEENTS I AMEUORTON DES    DSII     U i
Cen kry - Road/Volrl
Elpreess_y/iàu*rou"t                                  11        -   11.08       -
.Ha_delilaye_- Ba leu                                 11.0  19 »              1.1
La Prince Hamb dlay _ n                                0 .7     00            0.04
Le Prince TI-Tt                                        8.30   a."0      -    o.se
Transveral-e TI                                        S.    8.10             O.so
Rout de Kaporo1 .10  ;.                                                _      0.10
Subtotali/Sous-Total                                   ».4  17.00   11.04    1.74
Coniakry - Dralnage
Coronthl- Sud                                          1.01   1.44      -    0.17
Car.                                                   1.48   1.82      -    0.10
Tocbo                                                  0.19  0.10       -    0.08
KIpé                                                   0.28  O.2        -    0.08
Unlversité                                             0.79 *.1?        -    0.e9
Subtotal/Souk-Tot i                                    4.0 J802         -    0.48
Sécordery Citiee/Vile Secondialre
Kindl                                                  0.72  o0.0       -      0.07
Kan«kn                                                 1.06   1.        -    0.16
..Lab                                                     1.08O  1.47           0.10
11Z1rkoré                                              ! 608  I.45 n          0.08
Subteta 18/ue-Tote I                                   4.08  4.0              0.48
Studio end Supervislon / Etudes et Supervloin
Engineering Studles/Etud  d'eudution Conakry           1.48   1.46      --      -
Engineering Stdioe Secondary Cltiee/Etad
d'exécublon Vilole  Seconda res                        0.27   0.27?
Supervilion                                            2.48   2 40              -
UrbOn lana   ntW Sdis/Etude gution urbaine             01S  *.10
TraIning/For..tion                                     0.25   LI -t     _       -
Subtoteli/Sus-Total                                    4.66  4. 6
Clearance end Compensation / Ouvertur^ et Expropriations
..C_ospsnatiolxpopiaios                                  8.08. ..        ......... -  -    8.0
. Resettl_t Ares/Zos d  recasm_nt                        0.20     -.
Roéd Cleronce/Ouv.rture transversales                  ose      =       =. U
Subtotal/Soue-Total                                    8.70             -    8.70
SubbotallSou«-TotUl SntraUueturs                            47.48  U0.10   11.0   0.85
. ../. ..



- 79 -                                   ANX  2-4
Page 2 of 4
Co4t Table end Financine Plan / Coête du prolet et plan de financement
(continued / sult.)
Flnancino/Flnancem_t
Category / cetéorle                                   Total   IDA     COF    Oov't.
B. LAND DEVELPMENT/AMENAOENENT DE TERRAINS
Secondery Infrastructure/Infrastructuree ScoMdaire       1.    1.8e 1              --
Support to/Aslsitance DATU                               8.S    8.50
Support to/Asslitance Soloprimo                          0.40  io.40
Support to/Assistance Ville de Conakry                   0.40   0.40
Subtotal/Sous-Totol                                      2.80   2.80
C. SUPPRT FOR CONSTMRUCTON ENTERPRISESIASSISTANCE ENTREPRISES BATINENT
Support to/Assistance UNE-BTP                            1.00      -     1.00      -               à
Subtota I/Sous-Total                                     1.00      -     1.00      -
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPUMENTIDEVELOPPENENT INSTITUTIONNEL
Stregthenlng/Renforcent M
Technical Assitatnce/Assitnce Technique                  1.10   1.10       -       -
Short-tem  Consultante/Consultante court-trome           1.10   1.10       -
Project Preparation/Préparation de Projets               1.10   1.10       -
Training/Formatlon                                       1.80   1. 00
Equlpment/Equipmnt                                       0.60  a.w!
SubtotoI/Sous-Total                                      4.80   4.80
Strengthentng/Renforcum_t Vlile de Conakry
Tchntcsl Assistance/As Iteenco Technique                 1.60   0.7C   0.76
Fiscal Mapping/Croquis fiscel                            o.eo      -     0.60
Studies end Training/Etud s et forstlon                  0.45   0.4C5      -
Equlpeont/Equlpemmnt                                     1.15   1.00   O.15
SubtotaI/Sous-Total                                      8.70   2.20    1.5 
Strengthni ng/kenforcomnt UPSU
Studios end Tralnlng/Etude  et formaton                  0.80   0.80       -
Equlp»nt/Equtpemont                                      0.5    0.60       -
Operattng Coste/Frais de fonctionnment                   1.20   0.60       -    0.70
Subtota l/Sous-Total                                     2.80   1.80       -     0.70
SUBTOTAL/SOUS-TOTAL
DNSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT/DEVELOPPEUENT INSTUTIONNEL        10.60   7.40    1.60   0.70
TOTAL BASE COST/COUT DE BASE                                  61.75  41.20   18.50    7.06
PHYSICAL COI4TINGENCIES/IMPREVUS PHYSIQUES                      7.02   5.40    1.20   0.42
PRICE COTrINoENCIES/INPREVUS FINNIRoS                          12.98  10.40    1.80   0.78
TOTAL BAS  COST / COUT DU PROJET                              81.70  5.       16.560   8 .2
AFlIN
1a février/February 1990
.b id  -- AstAr;-4.mr
it*e- <I) 042



VAuLE OtSUUET SIEN
cf 1990           c 1991            Cn 1$92             ci 19S             ci 1994            cr 1995        SICK  CUITINE9CIE  PUiCE COIIIMEItES TOTAL liEt.0STIUE
CW IN                      LL F0I9 TOTAL LM  F1lEIII  TOTAL LClE F0IEt8  TOTALLOA FIMTT   LL F019 TAL Lm  F0919 TAL LOCA FEI  TOTAL LOAL F8189 TOTAL  LO    F8ut  TOTAL
CmWly Iahs.ay 0.4!  1.24  1.6I  1.79  5.3   1.15  0.55  1.65  2.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.41  1.24   1.65  1.10  0.72  I.SO   4.35 10.20 14.55
C.hry PrÂwy tub  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.94  5.02  7.76  1.94  5.02  7.76  0.97  2.91  3.9   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.73  2.10  2.91  2.74  1.93  4.67  0.32 18.66 26.99
C.k wy kalbh   0.00  0.00  e.00   0.43  1.29  1.72  0.43  1.29  1.72  0.22  0.65  0.96  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.16  0.4   0.65  0.61  0.43  8.04  1.94  4.14  5.99
S9Uiii  Cutes  0.00  0.00  0.00  o.I1  0.24  0.45  0.3   0.04  I.13  0.34  1.01  1.35  0.29  0.94  1.13  0.11  0.34  0.4S  0.17  0.51  0.68  0.93  0.71  1.54  2.2  4.59  6.71
Stuios ni& hprwtdso   0.09  0.36  0.46  0.23  0.91  1.14  0.19  0.73  0.91  0.19  0.73  0.91  0.18  0.n3  0.91  0.05  0.18  0.23  0.05  0.19  0.23  0.52  0.55  1.07  1.47  4.37   es9
Lad  Cupoition  1.S5  0.00  1.85  1.95  0.00  1.85  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.70  0.00  3.70
SUDTTAL.   2.35  1.60  3.6  6.3  13.12 20.07  3.39  10.33 13.72   .0  5.30  7.00  0.46  1.57  2.04  0.16  0.52  0.68  1.52  ss.59  6.11  5.s   4.33  10.21 21.81 41.9  63.n1
LM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
COiil Mrk  0.00  0.00  0.00  o.o0  0.29  0.39  0.24  0.73  0.S8  0.04  0.18  0.15  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.06  0.17  0.23  0.22  ° 15  0.37  0.15  1.45  2.0
Stldies à Tub. bdst. 0.05  0.21  0.26  0.07  0.26  0.33  0.05  0.21  0.26  0.04  0.16  0.20  0.04  0.16  0.20  Q.O0   0.05  0.07  0.08  0.05  0.07  0.13  0.14  0.27  0.45  1.23   1.64
sIWTuItL 9 0.05  0.21  0.26  0.16  0.54  0.70  0.30  0.94  1.24  0.09  0.27  0.35  0.04  0.56  0.20  0.08  0.05  0.07  0.07  0.22  0.29  0.35  0.29  0.64  1.06  2.67  3.73
SWMI TO WIBTNICTIM SSE
Tucb. alist. S Traial, 0.02  0.09  0.80  0.05  0.20  0.25  0.05  0.20  0.25  0.04  0.16  0.20  0.03  0.12  0.15  0.01  0.04  0.05  0.01  0.04  0.05  0.15  0.12  0.23  0.32  0.9   1.28
STUTMA C 0.02  0.09  0.10  0.05  0.20  0.25  0.0s  0.20  0.25  0.04  0.16  0.20  0.03  0.12  0.15  0.01  0.04  0.05  0.08  0.04  0.05  0.81  0.12  0.23  0.32  0.S6  1.28
IllSlilWlla IlE#li
Tecsc1laisstut t Um  0.09  0.34  0.43  0.22  0.86  1.00  0.22  0.s6  1.08  0.17  0.69  0.56  0.13  0.52  0.65  0.04  0.17  0.22  0.04  0.17  0.22  0.48  0.50  0.99  1.38  4.15  5.49
Mitla I Ealpit U   *.Oî  0.05  0.05  0.03  0.23  0.25  0.02  0.13  0.15  0.01  0.05  0.05  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.05  0.05  0.02  0.05  e 1  0.09  0.54  0.62
T'à. to tb City of Cearw  0.03  0.31  0.4   0.87  0.66  0.93  0.14  0.55  0.69  0.11  0.44  0.55  0.06  0.22  0.28  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.03  0.88  0.14  0.29  0.27  0.54  0.95  2.58  3.43
Eqsip. eIl  City of Cuairy 0.02  0.85  0.87  0.06  0.52  0.59  0.06  0.52  0.59  0.03  0.30  0.31  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.02  0.85  0.17  0.09 .0.1   0.26  0.27  1.91  2.08
1 OpWatlq Impu    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.30  0.20  0.50  0.22  0.85  0.37  0.56  0.1  0.27  0.10  0.07  0.17  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.718  0.52  1.30
SI9-TOTAL O 0.19  0.87  1.06  0.76  2.46  3.23  0.65  2.21  2.86  0.40  8.58  2.06  0.2s  0.80  1.09  0.04  0.17  0.22  0.09  0.4O  0.57  0.s6  0."   1.85  3.36  9.56 12.92
TOTAL  2.62  2.76  5.37  7.32 16.93 24.25  4.37 13.68 19.06  2.30  7.30  9.60  0.82  2.65  3.47  0.22  0.79  1.08  1.69  5.33  7.02  7.21  5.72 12.93 26.54 55.15 91.70
eo
Nb0
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TIWIlt  IIIUWIT     fIIEOt e
CY 190             cn 1991            Ci 192             CV l3        m    cv 1r4              C lm5       PHSICAL WCITliEIEIE  F2IE COlTIM:EIS TOTA l..CoUTIUfi ES
CNUE                       LOCAL FMEIS TOTAL LCE. FUE1 1 MAL L     F01   TOTAL  EU  F088  TOTAL UCA FOMI  TOTAL LTA FUElS MAL LOC  FIEIS TOTAL LOC  FUE16 TOTAL LfCA FUEl  TOTAL
11D USE III
civil llri  0.41  1.24  1.11  4.36 13.09 11.46  3.45  10.34 13.71  1.56  4.60  6.24  0.28  0.84  1.13  0.11  0.34  0.15  1.53  4.58  6.11  5.58  3.93  9.51  17.29  39.03 56.32
YUiulus l  udumt 0.02  0.11  0.22  0.00  0.74  0.83  0.07  0.65  0.73  0.04  0.34  0.38  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.02  0.19  0.22  O.1l  0.22  0.33  0.34  2.35  2.70
stiu   lTaeb. i.1lt. 0.33  1.33  1.66  0.12  Log  3.61  0.64  2.55  3.18  0.54  2.17  2.'2  0.44  1.74  2.18  0.11  0.45  0.56  0.14  0.56  0.70  1.52  1.57  3.09  4.44 13.25 17.61
LAi Cumamtim   1.95  0.00  1.85  1.85  0.00  8.5  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.70  0.00  3.70
W  4ratiq E           *pia  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.30  0.20  0.50  0.22  0.15  0.37  0.16  0.11  0.27  0.O  0.07  0.17  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.79  0.52  1.30
OIL E  2.22.76  5.37  7.32 16.93 24.25  4.37  1U.6  1L.06  2.30  7.30  9.60  0.82  2.65  3.47  0.22  0.7B  8.01  1.69  5.33  7.02  7.21  5.72 12.93 26.54 55.15 81.70
FIhSICIL COt911 lN
Civil Uns 0.06  0.19  0.25  0.65  L.    2U   0.52  1.55  2.07  0.23  0.70  0.94  0.04  0.13  0.17  0.02  0.05  0.07  1.53  4.58  6.11
Vbhcin b Eqpwut 0.00  0.02  0.02  0.0   0.017  0.08  0.01  0.07  0.07  0.00  0.03  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.02  0.19  0.22                                                0
Stai   à Tecu. Autit. 0.02  0.07  0.09  0.04  0.14  0.88  0.03  0.13  0.16  0.03  0.18  0.34  0.02  0.09  0.11  0.01  0.02  0.03  0.14  0.56  0.70
TIll. 0.08  0.21  0.35  0.70  2.10  2.95  0.56  1.74  2.30  0.26  0.84  8.11  0.06  0.21  0.26  0.02  0.07  0.10  1.69  5.33  7.02
FRIICECTIIIEI
Civil Mrts 0.09  0.03  0.12  1.85  1.09  2.L4  2.11  1.49  3.60  1.18  0.97  2.15  0.24  0.23  0.48  0.11  0.82  0.23                           5.58  3.93  9.51
VoIici. a Epipumt 0.00  0.00  0.01  0.03  0.06  0.09  0.04  0.09  0.83  0.0   0.07  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00                            0.11  0.22  0.33
Stuuiois  Tucb. Amt. 0.06  0.03  0.10  0.28  0.22  0.50  0.36  0.33  0.6   0.3.   0.41  0.78  0.34  0.44  0.71  0.10  0.14  0,24                           1.52  1.57  3.09
TOTAL 0.16  0:N0  0.22  2.16  1.37   .54  2.51  1.91  4.42  1.59   1.45  3.03  0.59  0.6?  1.26  0.21  0.26  0.47                          7.21  5.72  12.93
TOtI. Fl0l. OISMIUS. SOlLE 2.85  3.10  5.95  10.18 20.48 ».66  7.44 17.34 24.78  4.14  9.59 13.74  1.47  3.%   5.00  0.46  1.11  1.57                                              26.54 55.15 81.70
D es_u SDE
Civil tris 0.00  0.00  0.00  3.66  0.61  12.28  4.64 10.21 14.84  2.60  5.73  8.41  0.51  1.00  1.59  0.22  0.45  0.67 11.71 26.09 37.80
Vdica i   Equput 0.02  0.19  0.21  0.11  0.76  0.86  0.10  0.61  0.78  0.06  0.37  0.42  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.29  1.99  2.28
Stuies I Tat. Assist. 0.39  1.34  1.73  0.97  3.03  4.00  0.94  2.77  3.72  0.87  2.49  3.37  0.75  2.11  2.85  0.20  0.55  0.75  4.12 12.29 16.41
liM Oprtilq Exp... 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.12  0.08  0.20  0.09  0.06  0.15  0.06  0.04  0.81  0.04  0.03  0.07  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.31  0.21  0.52
MTAL 0.41  1.52  1.93  4.06  12.48 17.34  5.17  83.12 19.49  3.68  8.64 12.31  1.30  3.21  4.51  0.41  1.01  8.42 16.43 40.58 57.01                                      t|
3.42              30.42              34.22              21.62              7.92               2.5æ
O,



-02-                                     A82- 2-6
REULIC OF OCJUMPU           DE D! UINE
SECWO WRSN PRGJECTIDEUXIENE PROJET URIBAIN
Dlburmmnt SchodulICale-ndfler d« Os cesl*     t
Dl t rursntiD6ca l _sntu
- ---- ----IDA                      --- MIN --- ---11 EU---
Flocal Y«riAnn6o fleole l S_,e"s/Suentre    S_.s1r/S.Utre  CuulutIlv/Cuuulo    X
FYSI                     S1                  1.7                 1.7             B
S2                  6.8                 8.5           15
FYS2                     Si                  9.7                18.2            42
S2                  8.6                26.8           47
FYWs                     S1                 10.8                87.6            08
32                  6.8                48.9           77
FY94                     Si                  C.7                49.6            87
82                  2.8                62.4           92
FYS                     Si                  2.9                 65.8           97
S2                  1.1                66.4            99
FYO«                     Si                  0.6                C7.0           100
AFlIN
18 f4vrl.r/F.bruery 1990
Job Id    A:Ant-.mr
Diakil.-  O")8 J14



-88-                                       AMNEX 2-o
REPUUC CF OfUINEA/REPUBLIUE DE CUDNEE
SECOND URBAN PROJECTIDEUXIEME PROJET URBAIN
Procuru_snt Arrara . nte/Proc6dure de pwanution dbs marchés
(IDA Sha, in Por.nth.se/Part IDA entre parenthèseo)
(18el *illion/tlllone 4 8 des E U.)
Procuroment Method
(Méthode de ws ation des archés)
Cetogory/Cet6gorie              ICB/AOI   LCB/AOL    Other/Autres    N/A        Total
1. CivIl Wo7ke                                41.7       --          14.6        8.7       e0.0
(Travaux)                                (87.8)      --        C---)        (--)      (87.8)
2.  Nateriols end Equlpment                    1.7      0.6           0.6         --        2.8
(Fournitures et équip met)                (1.7)    (9.6)        (0 a)                  (2.6)
8. Operating Co.                                -                     1.B         --        1.8
(Frais do ftoo.ionnoesnt)                                       (0.6)        -         (0.6)
4.  Consultant* end Tralnlng                                         17.6         --       17.6
(Assu'tance technique et formation)        --                  (16.1)        _        (10.1)
Total                                     48.4      0.6         84.0         8.7       81.7
(89.5     (.6)        (16.9) E-)s"0
AFlIN
28 f6vrler/Fabruery 199O
Job Id    A A:AnxZ4.àar
DiO.ette -0m) wIO42



- 84 -                     ANNEX  2-7
Page l of 14
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF CONAKRY PRIMARY ROADS COMPONENT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Definitions
1.        The economic analysis of the Conakry primary roads component is based
on a comparison of the benefits and costs to which the project gives rise. The
internal rate of return (IRR) is the annual rate which equalizes the present
values of the cost and benefits streamu.
(a) Coets are taken to be the co6ts to the economy as a whole, that iss
(i) project investment cost, (il) compensation paWd to households
required to move from the infrastructure rights-of-way, and (iii) the
difference in annual road maintenance costs between the vith- and
vithout-project situations
(b) Benefits taken into account in this study are those realized by road
users, that is: (i) savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from
riding on a smoother road surface, and tii) savings in travel time by
drivers and passengers. Since other benefits, such as those resulting
from reduction in vaiting time at intersections or traffic jams due
to smoother traffic flow, and those resulting from accident reduction
have not been taken into account here, the resulting rate of return
may be considered a minimum.
B.  Scoae of Analysis
2.        Separate rates of return have been calculated fort
(a) On the one hand, all civil vorks eligible for IDA financing, that is,
construction of primary Road Tl, the first section of Le Prince Road,
Le Prince Road section between Roads Tl and T2 il x 2 lanes), the first
unpaved section of Road T2, and improvements to the Kaporo road. This
package of roads upgrading vorks vas selected for inclusion in the
project folloving a comparison of a number of different packages of
improvements to the same network in terms of their impact on traffic,
all packages having the same price tag.
(b) On the other hand, the videning of Coyah Road to a 2 x 2 national
highway, in effect extending Fidel Castro expressway for about 6 km
beyond Gbessia crossroads, which is to be financed by a loan from the
French CCCE (Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique) and which vill
complete vorks previous"' financed by CCCE's program of public
transport improvements in uonakry.
3.        This note presents both analyses, which are based on data f rom the same
traffic study carried out in 1988189 by SGI Luxembourg for the First Urban



- 85 -                     ANNEX  2-7
Page 2 of 14
Project as part of detailed studies of primary road vorks to be considered for
inclusion ln the Second Urban Project.
II. PRIMARY ROADS UPGRADING
A. Traffic Studv
4.        Ro , user savings in vehicle operating costs and in travel time vere
estimated by comparing daily traffic volumes in the vith- and vithout-project
cases.
Characteristics of Traffic Model Used
5.        The difference between vith- and without-project traffic volumes is
not due to the addition of nev network sections but only from altering travel
conditions through road improvements to be carried out under the project. For
this reason, the traffic analysis deals vith the entire network beyond
Moussoudougou Bridge, because the improvements to be made, by increasing average
speeds on the improved sections, vill attract to these roads a part of general
traffic flow. thus improving travel (average speed) on the sections from vhich
traffic has been diverted.
6.        For this reason, the iterative traffic assignament model used by the
consultant 11 assigus traffic demand between a particular origin-destination pair
among different alternative rottings on the basis of link saturation and thus
of average speed, as given by the physical characteristica of each section. The
network used in the model is made up of 44 nodes and 76 links, but only a part
of this network is affected by traffic variations in the with- and
vithout-project cases.
7.        Traffic demand between nodes for the period studied vere determined
by a simple gravity model based on the population distribution for Conakry
projected ln the Urban Development Plan financed under the First Urban Project.
Calculations of travel demand (origin-destination matrices) are made directly
in vehicle-trips for an average day and are the same for both the vith- and
without-project cases.
Traffic Model Results
8.        Assignament of traffic demand between nodes to the various itineraries
joining these two nodes is based on travel time, which in turn dépends on speed
and saturation conditions on each of the sections of the itineraries. 2/
1i   See annexes to techuical and economic study of roads in Conakry, SGI
Luxembourg (October 1989 version).
2I   For each road category, the volume-speed functions used lu tne mode! are
described ln Annex C of the SGI report mentioned above.



- 86 -                    ANNEX  2-7
Page 3 of 14
B. Vehicle Overating Costs
OoeratinR Cost Data
9.        Operating cost data used in this study are taken from the Transport
Plan Study for the Ivory Coast carried out in 1988.   It vas assumed that
operating cost for an average vehicle in Conakry in 1989 Was comparable to that
of a private car in the Ivory Coast study. The costs corresponding to the four
road pavement categories used in this analysis are presented in Table 1 (all
tables are presented at end of this note).
Total Mileaae bv Pavement Tvve
10.       For each year and each option studied, total mileage for each pavement
category is calculated in the traffic study.  The results are summarized in
Table 2.
Annual Vehicle ODeratinR Costs
11.       Total mileage times unit operating costs by pavement category gives
total vehicle operating cost for each option analyzed; the difference between
with- and without-project options gives the operating cost savings due to the
project. Table 3 shows the results for 1990, 1995 and 2000.
C. Netwerk Time Savinas
12.       By dividing annual mileage on each section by the average speed after
iteration, the model yields total annual time spent by road users on the network,
for each year sad each option examined tsee Table 4). The difference between
total time spent in the with- and without-project cases gives the total time
savings due to the project.   Time savings are valued as followsv   total
vehicle-trips times 3.6 passengers per trip, times FF2.5 per passenger hour, or
half the value of an hour of vork for a wage earner making FG 80,000 a month.
D. Proiect Benefits
13.       Table 5 sulmnarizes total benefits expected from the project for
1992-2000. The figures for years between 1990 and 1995, and 1995 and 2000 have
been obtained by linear interpolation.
E. Proiect Cost
14.       Total project cost for purposes of this analysis includess (a) initial
investment cost, less the residual value of investments at the end of the period;
and (b) the difference in annual road maintenance costs for each year in the
vith- and without-project cases.



- 87 -                     ANNEX  2-7
Page 4 of 14
Investment Co0t
15.       Project investment costs for this component are as follows, in millions
of 1989 French francss
Rasiduel Velue
Exproorlsttons    Clvii Works    aft.r 20 Years
Le Prince Rod
- frou HKmdaIlaye te Road TI         0.968           4.016         1.188
- trou Rod Tl to Ro«d T2             4.987          20.989         7.090
Ro d Tl                               5.870          20.707         8.049
Kaporo Road                              -            .9068         8.446
Toeal                                1.284                         17.287
NBs  Es» Cost ha* boom Incr.* d by 6X for studios end vorks superviston.
The projct *chedule providus for hout,%hold compnomtlon to b puld In 1990 end for
sorbe coots to b. *plit S0-60 beten 1991 end lM.
Maintenance Costs
16.       Maintenance costs will differ only for Le Prince Road and Road Tl which
the project vill transform from a dirt road into one paved with asphalt for a
total length of 6.1 km. Assumptions are as follovss
(a)  for the dirt road, maintenance involves an annual grading (estimated
cost:   FF 12,0001km) and resurfacing every three years  (estimated
cost: FF 100,000/km).
(b)  for the asphalt pavement, maintenance cost vould be as followss
-- firet three yearss 0.252 of asphalt surfacing cost
--   years 4-6s  0.50Z of surfacing cost
--   years 7-9s  1  of surfacing cost
--   10th year:  Complete resurfacing (FF450,0001km)
Maintenance cost figures are summarized in Table 6.
F. Internal Rate of Return
17.       Table 7 summarizes the cost and benefit streams for the 1990-2012
period. The rate of return which equalizes the present value of these streams
iS:
-- 36.42 when benefit streams include only vehicle operating cost
savings, and
--   42.6Z when the value of time savings is also included.   The
magnitude of. this IRR Indicates that the improvements financed
under the project vill have an important impact on general speed



- 88 -                     ANNEX  2-7
Page 5 of 14
levels in the netvork which vill mean a significant reduction in
peak-hour congestion.
III. EXTENSION OF FIDEL CASTRO EXPRESSWAY
A. Traffic Studv
18.       In contrast to the case cf the roads studied above, due to the location
of this expressway, it is estimated as a first approximation that project
investments vill not change the volume of traffic using this road in the future.
However, it vill create benefits for users by improving both ride quality and
average speed on the two sections concerned (nos. 12-19 and 19-20 on the map).
Estimated traffic in 1990, 1995 and 2000 are those given by the model described
above and shown in the first two lines of Table 8.
B. Prolect Benefits
Vehicle Operating Cost Savings
19.       By finding the base operating costs given by the Côte d'Ivoire study
for a car travelling on a new pavement on the one hand (average speed 60 km/h)
and on a pavement in poor condition on the other (average speed 40 km/h), and
applying these cnsts to total daily mileage on the sections in question in the
vith- and vithout-project cases respectively, it is possible to calculate the
savings in vehicle operating costs for 1990, 1995 and 2000 (see Table 8, line
4). si
Travel Time SavinRs
20.       Travel time savings are assumed to result from the increase in speed
from 40 to 60 km/h on the two sections in question. These savings are valued
as described in the previous case. 4/
C. Proiect Cost
21.       Project cost includess
(a)  investment cost estimated at FF 66 million assigned as followss
one-third in 1990, one-half in 1991, one-sixth in 1992; 5/
(b) additional maintenance coste in the vith-project case, calculated as
in the previous case.
3/   Values must be calculated for 1990 in order to interpolate later years
folloving project executicu.
41   See para. 12.
5; it has been assumed that the two sections would be realized sequentially,
the first to be opened in 1991, the second in 1992.



- 89 -                     ANNEX  2-7
Page 6 of 14
D. Internal Rate of Return
22.       Table 9 summnarizes  the cost and benefit  streams for this road
Lnvestment over the 1990-2012 period. The rate of return which equalizes the
two streams is as followst
--   34.62 when including only vehicle operating cost savings ln the
benefit streams;
--   46.22 vhen travel time savings are also included in the benefit
stream.
When compared to the results obtained for the first part of the
primary road improvement component, these rates indicate that tte
impact of time savings is even greater in the case of the Fidel
Castro Expressvay extension, which seems logical considering the
volume of traffic involved.
APlIN
February 1, 1990
.8gb Id -: A-eu2-7EU.r
ueit.- «QM4)



TRANSVERSALET3    TPANSVERSALE71
NODNOM
NANSvERSALE N2 CO<ICHE NOD I   CORNICHENORD              N E       3
NOM
ROUTE LEPRINCE/                          ;S 
VOIE EX PRSESS|É                                       t 
TRNSERSLE2                   TRANSVERAE T4          VXE EXI
SUD             _            SUDt
TPANSVERSALE Tl        ROUTE LEPRINCEI     VOIE EXPRESS 3     iPA%VERSAL - 1
VOIE EXPRESS 2
el
O N
MB



- 91 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 8 of 14
Renublic of Guinea. Second Urban Proiect.
Economic Analysia: Primarv Roads '.omnonent.
Tabla 1: Automobile Operating Coste.
(net of taxes in French francslkm)
(Source : ;vory Coast   Nbttonal Transport Plan, Volume XIII, DCGTx 04/1988)
Pavement category   Paved      Paved    Unpaved   Unpaved
Item               good cond Door cond Rood cond noor cond
Fuel                  0.282     0.292      0.302      0.281
Lubricant             0.015      0.023     0.030      0.030
Tires                 0.035     0.056      0.078      0.110
Maintenance           0.161      0.387     0.613      1.076
Depreciation          0.514      0.531     0.548      0.565
Insurance             0.154     0.159      0.164      0.169
TOTAL                 1.161     1.448      1.735      2.231
Table 2t Total Annual Mileage by Pavement Type, Pavement Upgrading
(PCU by day)
(Source  SOI trufflc  tudy, 1989)
Pavement Type        Paved     Paved    Unpaved   Unpaved
Variant            Rood cond poor cond Rood cond poor cond   TOTAL
Vithout Project
1990    944108      54093    115866    169719   1283786
1995   1237777      73233    173888    335955   1820853
2000   1719906    107779    294911    544950   2667546
Vith Project
1995   1303142      66781    259074    201909   1830906
2000   1785818      96596    403437    390340   2676191
Table 3s Annual Vehicle Operating Costa, Pavement Upgrading
(FF millions)
(Source : Table 1 *nd 2)
Pavement Type        Paved     Paved    Unpaved   Unpaved
Variant            good cona poor cond good cond woor cond   TOTAL
Vithout Project
1990    400080      28589     73375    138205    640249
1995    524527      38705    110119    273573    946924
2000    728836      56963    186760    443761   1416320
Vith Project
1995    552226      35295    164065    164418    91600'
2000    756767      51053    255487    317860   1381166
I



- 92 -                          LUNEX 2-7
Page 9 of 14
Table 4 a Annual User Travel Tiae, Pavement Upgradiug.
(millions of hours)
(Source : Sel T,tc Study8 1909)
Year               1990             1995            2000
Without Project       10050           15157            26640
With Project          10050           14582            25047



Table 5s Project Benefits, Expressway Extensîon.
(FF millions)
Vithout Proiect Variant         Vith Prolect Variant             Proiect Benefits
Annual        Annual         Annual         Annual         Vehicle          Travel
vehicle        cost of       vehicle        cost of         operating       time
operating      travel        operating      travel         Costa            savings
YEAR      cost           time           cost           time           savings                          TOTAL
1992         762.9          108.8          750.6          106.8           12.4            2.1            14.4        a
1993         824.3          118.0          805.7          114.9           18.6            3.1            21.7
1994         885.6          127.2          860.9          123.1           24.7             4.1           28.9
1995         946.9          136.4          916.D          131.2           30.9            5.2            36.1
1996        1040.8          157.1         1009.0          150.1           31.8             7.0           38.8
1997        1134.7          177.8         1102.1          168.9           32.6            8.8            41.5
1998        1228.6          198.4         1195.1          187.7           33.5           10.7            44.1
1999        1322.4          219.1         1288.1          206.6           34.3           12.5            46.8
2000        1416.3          239.8         1381.2          225.4           35.2           14.3            49.5
I I



- 94 -
AUNU 2-7
Page Il of 14
Table 6 a Project Costs for Primary Roads Upgradimg.
(FF millions)
VJthout          Vith Projeet        Project
Prolect                              Cost
A           X            C
maintenance Inuestmant  maintenance    B+C-A
YUA   coat         co0t        co0t
1990       0.000       11.820       0.000       11.820
1991       0.000       27.972       0.000       27.972
1992       0.074       27.972       0.000       27.898
1993       0.074                    0.015       -0.059
1994       0.615                    0.015       -0.600
1995       0.074                    0.015       -0.059
1996       0.074                    0.030       -0.044
1997       0.615                    0.030       -0.585
1998       0.074                    0.030       -0.044
1999       0.074                    0.061       -0.013
2000       0.615                    0.061       -0.554
2001       0.074                    0.061       -0.013
2002       0.074                    2.700        2.626
2003       0.615                    0.015       -0.600
2004       0.074                    0.015       -0.059
2005       0.074                    0.015       -0.059
2006       0.615                    0.030       -0.585
2007       0.074                    0.030       -0.044
2008       0.074                    0.030       -0.044
2009       0.615                    0.061       -0.554
2010       0.074                    0.061       -0.013
2011       0.074                    0.061       -0.013
2012       0.615                    2.700      -15.182
Residual Value               -17.267



- 95 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 12 of 14
Table 7 a Internal Rate of Return for Primary Roaüs Upgrading
(PF millions)
Project benefits          Project      Benefit le8s Cost
Coats
Veh1Cle       Iucludlng                Vehicle        InCluding
operating    travel time               operating      travel time
YEAR    Costa oulY   sar1nas                   Costa onlY    savinas
1990          0.0          0.0         11.8        -11.8        -11.8
1991          0.0          0.0         28.0        -28.0        -28.0
1992         12.4         14.4         27.9        -15.5        -13.5
1993         18.6         21.7         -0.1         18.6         21.7
1994         24.7         28.9         -0.6         25.3         29.5
1995         30.9         36.1         -0.1         31.0         36.2
1996         31.8         38.8          0.0         31.8         38.8
1997         32.6         41.5         -0.6         33.2         42.0
1998         33.5         44.1          0.0         33.5         44.2
1999         34.3         46.8          0.0         34.3         46.8
2000         35.2         49.5         -0.6         35.7         50.0
2001         35.2         49.5          0.0         35.2         49.5
2002         35.2         49.5          2.6         32.5         46.9
2003         35.2         49.5         -0.6         35.8         50.1
2004         35.2         49.5         -0.1         35.2         49.5
2005         35.2         49.5         -0.1         35.2         49.5
2006         35.2         49.5         -0.6         35.7         50.1
2007         35.2         49.5          0.0         35.2         49.5
2008         35.2         49.5          0.0         35.2         49.5
2009         35.2         49.5         -0.6         35.7         50.0
2010         35.2         49.5          0.0         35.2         49.5
2011         35.2         49.5          0.0         35.2         49.5
2012         35.2         49.5        -15.2         50.3         64.7
IRR                                                 36.37Z       42.62Z



- 96 -
AflU 2-7
Page 13 of 14
Table 8a Project Benefits, Expressway extension.
(Source : SOI Trafflo Study, 1989)
Year                  1990           1995          2000
1. VEICLII OPEEAtIG COSTS
TRAFFIC (PCU / day)
Section 12 - 19                  23290         35999          53799
Section 19 - 20                  20246         32785          55503
Daily mileage                   130608        206352         327906
Vehicle operating
costs eavings                   13.682        21.616         34.350
(FF millions/year)
2. TEAVEL TIME
Time savings                      1633          2579           4099
CPCU I day)
Value of time saving             5.363         8.473         13.465
(FF millions year)
!



- 97 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 14 of 14
Table 9 X Internal rate of return, Expressvay extension.
(FF million)
Project benefits        Project      Benefit Less Cost
Costs
Vehicle      Including                Vehicle       Including
operating    travel time              operating    travel time
YEAR   costs onlY   savines                  coste only   savings
1990       0.000        0.000      -22.000     -22.000      -22.000
1991       7.634        2.993      -33.000     -25.366      -22.373
1992      16.856        6.607      -;1.030       5.826       12.433
1993      18.443        7.229       -0.030      18.413       25.642
1994      20.029        7.851       -0.045      19.984       27.836
1995      21.616        8.473       -0.045      21.571       30.045
1996      24.163        9.472       -0.060      24.103       33.575
1997      26.;10       10.470       -0.060      26.650       37.120
1998       -9.256      11.468       -3.375      25.881       37.350
1999      _1.803       12.466       -0.030      31.773       44.239
2000      34.350       13.465       -0.030      34.320       47.784
2001      35.037       13.465       -0.045      34.992       48.456
2002      35.738       13.465       -0.045      35.693       49.157
2003      36.452       13.465       -0.060      36.392       49.857
2004      37.181       13.465       -0.060      37.121       50.586
2005      37.925       13.465       -3.375      34.550       48.015
2006      38.683       13.465       -0.030      38.653       52.118
2007      39.457       13.465       -0.030      39.427       52.892
2008      40.246       13.465       -0.045      40.201       53.666
2009      41.051       13.465       -0.045      41.006       54.471
2010      41.872       13.465       -0.060      41.812       55.277
2011      42.710       13.465       -0.060      42.650       56.114
2012      43.564       13.465       18.012      61.576       75.040
IRR                                                34.55Z      46.24Z



- 98-                                    ANNEX  8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA / REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
SECOND U9BAN PROJECT / DEUXIEME PROJET URBAIN
Documents Avallable In the Prolct File / Documents disponibles dans le dossler du projet
AISC Roference
Document Identiflcation / IdentIfieation des documents                     Number
A. Sector Related Documents / Documents sectoriels
PratIques foncières et orientations politiques
Alain Durand-Lasserve, Jean-François Tribillon, 1988                     D 84429
Schéma National d'Aménagement du Terrltoire
Rapport intérimalre, Avrll 1988
CEPUR-DATU-MWH, SGILuxembourg                                            D 84480
Etude soclo-économique régionale Bllan-dlagnootic au niveau des
préfectures.  DGPlan-IPCI, Dirasset.                                     D 84481
B. Project Related Documenta / Documents lié, au projet
8.1 Urban Development / Développement Urbain
Plan de développement urbaln de Conakry. Rapport de synthèse.
Mal 1989.  UPUC-DATU-MIM, Croupement BCEOJ-Louls Berger-Groupe Huit.    D 84482
Projet de développement urbain de Conakry. Programme
d'investessements 1989-96. Fiches projets. Janvier 1989.
DVUARD-DATJ-UUH, SOI Luxembourg                                          D 84488
Ville de Conakry.  Plan de Clieulatilon.  UH, BCEOI, 1989.               D 84484
Schémas Direceturs D'Aménagement et d'Urbanismo  des villes de           D 8448S,
Kindia, Kankan, N' Z6rkoré, Boké et Kamear.                              D 84488,
CEPUR-DATU-MUH, SGILuxembourg.                                           D 84487, end
D 84488
Développement des villes secondaires.
-- Programm. Grands Travaux Urbains. Mars 1989.                          D 84489
-- Mlcro-réalisations. Devis-programme. Mars 1989
CEPUR-DATU-MUWH, SGILuxembourg.                                       D 84440



-99-                                     ANNEX  8
Page 2 of 2
Document* Aval luble In the Project File I Documents disponible dans la dossier du prolet
(contInued I suite)
AISC Reference
Document Identification / Identification d« documents                      Number
8.2  Housina end Land Development Policy / Politique de l'Habitat
Actes du premler sminalre Interprofess0onn-l de l'habitat.
Mars 1989, Soloprimo-MUl                                                 D 84441
Etude pour une politique de l'habitat en Guinée.
-- Rapport final de la phase A, Décembre 1988.                           D 84442
-- Dossier aménagement et équipement.  Octobre 1989.                        84443
Dossier financoment du logement. Octobre 1989.                        D 84444
-- Dossier acteurs, Institutions et procédures, Octobre 1989.            D 84446
Situation foncière en milieu urbain. P. Canel, J.F. Tribillon,
AF1IN, Novmbre 1989.                                                     D S4446
Plan d'ection pour la réInst llatIon d« ménages.
AFlIN, Janvelr 1990                                                      D 94447
B.a  Urban Manacement end Resource Mobilization I Gestion urbaine et
mobllsation des ressources
Ordonnance nO 079/PRO portant organ;istion terrltoriale de la
République de Guinée.                                                    D P4448
Note d'analyse de texte  sur les services urbalns à Conakry.             D 84449
La patente à Conakry.  Résultte et analyse.                              D 34450
Etude sur les marchés de Conakry.
Décembre 1988, Groupement BCEOM-Louls Berger-Groupe Huit.                D 844S1
8.4 Small Construction Enterprise« / Petites entreprises du secteur de
la construction
Etude du secteur Informel en Guinée. Potentiels et contraintes.
URHIPUE, C8¢IR, 1987.                                                        84462
Soutln aux PUE du bitiment. Rapport de mission.
AoOt 1988. Ph;lippe Theunissen.                                          D 84453
Projet de soutien aux petites entreprises du bitiment.
Etude de faisabilité.  Juin 1989, MWH, CECI.                             D 84454
AFIIN, 13 février/February 1990
Job Id -- A:ANXS.ar (<M. 01042)



I r - \ -} ~~~SENEGAL 
r GUINEA -                                                                                                 o     oo      o
_~~~9 ~~~t _ b / % ~~~~~~M  A  L   I
}~~~~ / _* X ~~~~~~~~2,,000
.  .,  \`\F.  ,o s o           }          ~LEONE                
GsUI                                             MEéMMRB> mitK- HearndAounarb}ten_M
r .  f                  fgenæres Intes    )6   {T  l_   6 > ~~~~~             ~      ~     ~~~24,000 
POPULATI( N DISTRIBUTION    >WTI0 s                                                                         < 
RFPAR177ON DE  POPUIA71ON    f                 URBAN CENTERS POPULATION (1989)       
Density ~ ~ ~ ~ POUL 1 97ON  DES CENTRS URWNS t1 989)           LIBERIA    L          t°   $  4.t&
;2U~~~~~~~~Hbtt pa KmLess than 20.000>~:e 6CT 
-| )   2   ~40 -° 1<Fs                                                /                             6-      _\D'IVOIRE|



CONAIRY 1990: 1050,000 Inhfa.ants 
GUINEA / GUINEE                                                                        i71 
SECOND URBAN PROJECT / DEUXIEME PROJET URBAIN    J ` ,
CONAKRY: INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM I PROGRAMME D'INFRAS7RUICURE                                                                                             o 
KiVOMETERS
ROADS / VOIRIE                                                  DRAINAGE IL)RAINAGIE                           .->.
Surfaced Existing /Edstante Revêtue                             A. Coronthie Sud (45 ha)      C4NARY 1995: 1MW4000 inhabitats
Unsurfaced Existing Existante Non Revêtue          B. Gare (40 ha)
Surfaced New (Nouvelle Revêtue                                C.  Tombo (13 ha)
Unsurfaced New tNouve//e Non Revêtue                            D. Université (60 ha)                                            j,
LAND DEVELOPMENT /EQIJIPÀMENTDE TERRAIN                          E. Kpe t23 ha)
Lambanyi-Kobaya Site /Site                                     MANGROVE /M/INGROVE         °         S.
1=3E1   200 ha. Operation I Opération                                     LA MINIERE                         KLOMITERS -
LAANDFILL IDÏCHARGE
O   1   2   3   4   5                         10
1   I             I   I                        I                                                         C.O.MCRY 2000: ,850,000 nhabants -
KILOMETERS                                                                                                          , 
L ~~~                     ~         ~. .
<                                                    /     .          .    la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOMETEltS
8=>n =eL                                             b         ;R                            4
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
Th  Wo /d0o^*st,r                                          *h                                    '     '~              -.   _                 ,r~    -<
rnaordo   oed ,s o                                                                    /o~                         <
X   tio n.v-t  f7V  d.nornk,rotns                                     t.\         , 
i o', tho bo,.doooh,$'
o, <h.'s rr7q do ,oot ,.fncx or7 <h.-`; 
poef of 7?h,,4'ord eS   od  <t.^                                        "   



