CREDIT NUMBER 2112 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Urban Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2112 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     A1 4;                , 1990, between the
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
of $1,000,000 to assist in financing Parts B, C and D of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
UNDP;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from Fonds d'Aide et de
Coop6ration (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $1,500,000 to assist in the financing of Part D (a) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
FAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
FAC;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from Caisse Centrale de
Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $14,000,000 to assist in the financing of Part A (a)
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and CCCE; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,


﻿-2-
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MUH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Urban Planning
and Housing;
(c) "DATU" means the Directorate for Regional and Urban
Planning within MUH;
(d) "DAF0" means the Directorate for Land Management within
MUH;
(e) "UPSU" means Unitd de Pilotage des Services Urbains, an
agency under the supervision of the City of Conakry;
(f) "SOLOPRIMO" means Socidt6 de Logements A Prix Mod6r6s, a
;trvice currently under the supervision of MUH;
(g) "City of Conakry" or "Conakry" means the ville de
Conakry operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance
No. 002/PRG/SGG/89 of January 5, 1989; and
(h) "Secondary Cities" means the cities of Kindia, Lab6,
Kankan, N'Z6r6kor6 and any other city to be selected in accordance
with Section 3.02 of this Agreement, which are eligible to benefit
from priority infrastructure upgrading works under Part A (c) (v)
of the Project, and their management under Part D (c) of the
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies


﻿-3-
equivalent to forty-three million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 43,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special accounts (the MUH Special
Account and the UPSU Special Account) in a commercial bank or the
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in


﻿-4-
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2000 and ending October 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
th Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the


﻿-5-
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D (c)
and D (d) of the Project through MUH, Part D (a) of the Project
through the City of Conakry and Part D (b) of the Project through
UPSU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate urban development and management practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, sites,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall submit to the Association's
prior approval:
(a) any change in the infrastructure upgrading works
referred to under Part A (c) (i) to (iv) of the Project; and
(b) any additional Secondary City with a proposal for
priority infrastructure upgrading works to be carried out under
Part A (c) (v) of the Project, and for their management under
Part D (c) of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall open, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter
maintain, a land servicing revolving fund in a financial
institution, satisfactory to the Association, and cause to be
deposited into said fund the land servicing fees collected from
developers and/or beneficiaries of serviced lots pursuant to
Section 3.05 of this Agreement. The proceeds of said fund in
respect of development operations shall be used exclusively to
finance land servicing operations acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. During the period the Project is carried out,
the Borrower shall maintain the Urban Land Servicing Steering


﻿-6-
Committee with such membership, responsibilities and terms of
reference as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part B (a) of the
Project, the Borrower shall prepare a plan and an implementation
program, satisfactory to the Association, for a land servicing
operation covering an area of about 200 ha in the City of Conakry;
said program shall provide for procedures to select developers for
new land development sites, reserving at least one third of each
site for private developers and setting a land servicing fee per
developed square meter to be charged by the Borrower to developers
and/or beneficiaries and deposited into the fund referred to under
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than October 1,
1990, cause MUH to:
(a) make arrangements with water, power and telephone
utility cr-n-anies for the execution of strenthening and
develop-       rks of their respective networks, and for the
provis.       water, electricity and telephone at sites to be
serviced and developed under the Project;
(b) make arrangements with the City of Conakry for the
management of road and drainage works; and
) establish a technical working group within DATU
responsible for coordination and supervision of said works.
Section 3.07. In order to carry out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall through MUH after consultation with the Urban
Land Servicing Steering Committee referred to under Section 3.04
of this Agreement:
(a) publish, not later than April 1, 1991:
(i) a list of approved blocks developers, on the basis
of selection criteria acceptable to the
Association; and
(ii) basic land development regulations, applicable to
developers and plot occupants acceptable to the
Association; and
(b) enter !.)to agreements with each approved developer,
setting forth said developer's:


﻿- 7 -
(i) right to develop and subdivide a block, and to
select planning standards, block lay-out, level of
infrastructure services and resale conditions;
(ii) rights and obligations in financial, fiscal and
technical matters; and
(iii) obligation to award a discharge to occupants and
initiate necessary administrative procedures for
the delivery of occupancy certificates.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall during the period the
Project is carried out:
(a) maintain UPSU under its current administrative and
financial structure, with such functions, qualified management and
financing plan as shall be acceptable to the Association; and
(b) maintain a project director within MUH assisted by an
administrative and financial coordinator whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.09. During the period the Project is carried out,
the Borrower shall, not later than October 1 of each year, review
with the Association the City of Conakry's draft budget, and
UPSU's funding arrangements.
Section 3.10. Except as the AssociaAion shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall carry out the compensation
and resettlement of households affected under Part A of the
Project in accordance with principles and practices satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
for SOLOPRIMO to be incorporated as a commercial company before
April 1, 1991.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Accounts and the land servicing
revolving fund referred to under Section 3.03 of
this Agreement, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
.onsistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
whi-h the last withdrawal from the Credit Account


﻿-9-
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Ordonnance No. 046/PRG/SGG/87 of May 28, 1987 has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
materially and adversely affect the execution of the Project.
(b) Ordonnance No. 010/PRG/SGG/90 of March 6, 1990 on the
fiscal, financial and administrative organization of the City of
Conakry has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such way as to materially and adversely affect the execution of
the Project.
(c) The Grant and Loan Agreements referred to under
Whereas B, C and D of this Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1990, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any events specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿- 11 -
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12,01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the documentation introducing the land servicing fee
referred to under Section 3.05 of this Agreement has been signed;
(b) the documentation on the establishment and operation of
the revolving fund referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
has been signed;
(c) the documentation on the organization and operation of
the City of Conakry and its communes has been signed;
(d) the documentation on the establishment of the Urban Land
Servicing Steering Committee referred to under Section 3.04 of
this Agreement has been signed; and
(e) the Project Director referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of
this Agreement has been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Urban Affairs and Housing is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re de l'Urbanisme et
de 1'Habitat
B.P. 846
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Telex:
22352 MEUGE


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreemen to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B y   S//    ~   eJ-~      ~~
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Eguivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works for:
(a) Conakry Infra-     19,250,000      90%
structure
(b) Secondary Cities    3,800,000      90%
(c) Land Develop-       1,350,000      100%
ment
(2) Materials, vehicles
and Equipment for:
(a) MUH                   450,000      100%
(b) City of Conakry       830,000      100%
(c) UPSU                  530,000      100%


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) UPSU's operating
expenses:
(a) in fiscal             150,000      40%
year 1991
(b) in fiscal             110,000      40%
year 1992
(c) in fiscal              75,000      40%
year 1993
(d) in fiscal              40,000      40%
vear 1994
(4) Technical Assistance
and Training
(a) MUH                 3,550,000      100%
) City of Conakry     2,250,000      100%
(c) UPSU                  250,000      100%
(5) Studies and works        4,850,000      100%
supervision
(6) Unallocated              5,515,000
TOTAL                   43,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "UPSU's operating
expenses" means expenditures incurred under Part D (b) of the
Project for vehicle repair, spare parts and oil and petroleum
products and office supplies.


﻿- 15 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) Category 1 (c) before the Borrower has adopted the plan
and the implementation program, referred to in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement; and
(c) Category 3 (a), (b), (c) or (d) respectively, unless the
Association is satisfied with the actual results of the
implementation of UPSU's budget and of the transfers of UPSU's
appropriations in the City of Conakry's budget in the previous
year, and the proposed level of funding of UPSU in the City of
Conakry's budget for the following year.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) finance a priority
urban infrastructure upgrading program in Conakry and selected
Secondary Cities;
(b) support the implementation of the Borrower's new housing
and land development policy;
(c) continue to assist the development of small construction
enterprises; and
(d) strengthen urban institutions including support for the
improvement of local resource mobilization and delivery of urban
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Priority Urban Infrastructure
(a) Strengthening of the primary road network in Conakry
through the improvement of key links:
(i) Upgrading of the Coyah Road (about 5.8 km), east of
the Gbessia Airport, consisting of two 7.5 meter-
wide, double lane roads with median strip.
(ii) Upgrading of the Hamdallaye-Bellevue Road (about
2.1 km) to increase its existing capacity,
consisting of two 7.5 meter-wide, double lane roads
with median strip, reconstructing the Bellevue
bridge to increase its width to four lanes, and
upgrading and redesign of four intersections.
(iii) Rehabilitation of LePrince Road from Hamdallaye
intersection to its intersection with Road T2; the
first section, Hamdallaye to Road T1 (about 0.5 1km)
to consist of two 7.5 meter-wide, double lane roads
with median strip, and the second section between
Roads Ti and T2 (about 2.8 km) to consist of a 7.5
meter-wide, double lane road.


﻿- 17 -
(iv) Constr,action of Road Ti consisting of a 14 meter-
wide i ad without median strip (about 2.8 km).
(v) Clearing of Land for Road T2 (about 5 km).
(vi) Rehabilitation of the northern coastal road between
the Kaporo bridge and Road T4 (Lambanyi), including
realignment of about 4.7 km and construction of two
bridges.
(vii) Extension of Road T4 through the land developed
under Part B of the Project.
(viii) Compensation and resettlement of households
affected by the road rehabilitation or construction
under this Project.
(b) Rehabilitation of Conakry's drainage network covering
the following five drainage basins:
(i) Coronthie South (about 45 ha), including the
rehabilitation of abo5ut 1.2 km of existing drains
and construction of about 4.1 km of new collector
drains and one culvert.
(ii) Railway station area (about 40 ha), including the
rehabilitation of about 0.6 km of existing drains
and the construction of 3.2 km of new collector
drains and two culverts.
(iii) Tombo area (about 13 ha), including the
rehabilitation of about 0.8 km of existing
collector drains and two culverts.
(iv) School area in Kipe (about 23 ha), including the
rehabilitation of about 0.8 km of existing
collector drains and two culverts.
(v) University area (about 60 ha), including the
rehabilitation of about 0.5 km of existing drainage
network, the reconstruction of an existing canal
about 0.8 km long, and the construction of ocean
outlets.


﻿- 18 -
(c) Priority infrastructure in Secondary Cities:
(i) Kindia: upgrading of access roads to the
neighborhoods of Kenende and Woudi.
(ii) Lab6: construction of a drainage network in the
town center and the recalibration and protection of
the creeks encircling the downtown area.
(iii) Kankan: rehabilitation of a primary rainwater drain
and upgrading of a road linking major residential
areas to the city center.
(iv) N'Z6r6kor6: rehabilitation of a market and a bus
and truck terminal.
(v) other priority infrastructure upgrading works in
additional Secondary Cities.
(d) Strengthening of DATU through: engineering studies for
civil works to be carried out under the Project, training programs
and technical assistance to assist it in the carrying out of
contracting and supervision of civil works under the Project.
Part B:   Land Development
(a) Preparation of a plan and an implementation program for
a new land development site of about 200 ha on the outskirts of
Conakry development of Secondary Infrastructure Networks on such
site including the construction of about 8.5 km of roads, about 9
km of earth drains and of 22 culverts.
(b) Preparation of engineering studies for secondary road
and drainage networks of the new land development site by DATU,
including cost estimates for civil works and regulations governing
subdivision of blocks into lots and servicing of blocks by
developers.
(c) Strengthening of housing sector institutions: DATU's
capabilities in strategic planning, studies and supervision of
works, SOLOPRIMO's technical and commercial capacity, the City of
Conakry's basic infrastructure construction capacity, and DAFO's
capacity in land documentation management.


﻿- 19 -
(d) Feasibility study for the establishment of a network of
small savings and loans agencies serving residential homeowners'
needs.
Part C:   Small Construction Enterprises
Support to small enterprises in the construction sector and
to industries of local construction materials, including
management and accounting training and creation of a technical and
commercial data base.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
(a) Resource Mobilization for Conakry
(i) Strengthening of the City of Conakry's fiscal and
accounting services and income generating capacity.
(ii) Introduction of a municipal tax reform, including
reform of tax on professional activities, property
tax and vehicle tax.
(iii) Training of Conakry's municipal employees in
financial management and municipal accounting.
(b) Management of UPSU
(i) A study of the optimal structure, mandate and
staffing of UPSU.
(ii) Training of UPSU's staff in management, accounting
and technical areas.
(iii) Provision of equipment to strengthen UPSU's
capacity to deliver services whose costs can be
charged directly to beneficiaries.
(c) Strengthening of urban management in Secondary Cities.
(d) Strengthening of MUH's project management capabilities,
and preparation of a follow-up Project.
T     * i
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
materials shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Republic of
Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and materials estimated to cost between the
equivalents of $50,000 and $300,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $700,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not


﻿- 21 -
to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Fuel, lubricants and spare parts for vehicles up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,300,000 may be
purchased by direct negotiated purchase in a manner acceptable to
the Association.
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of a Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering, financial and urban


﻿- 22 -
development consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2(a),
(b) and (c), 4 and 5 for the MUH Special Account, and Category 3
for UPSU Special Account set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$1,000,000 for the Urban Development Special Account and $100,000
for the UPSU Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the respective Special Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 24 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 25 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into that Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into that Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or fcr cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions uf this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


