Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19429
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
ANKARA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 3151-TU)
June 15, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Yearly Averages)
Currency Unit   =   Turkish Lira
1988       -                 1,421   =   US$ 1.00
1989       -                 2,120   =   US$ 1.00
1990       -                 2,606   =   US$ 1.00
1991       -                 4,168   =   US$ 1.00
1992       -                 6,864   =   US$ 1.00
1993       -                10,965   =   US$ 1.00
1994       -                29,668   =   US$ 1.00
1995       -                45,731   =   US$ 1.00
1996       -                80,785   =   US$ 1.00
1997       -               150,000   =   US$ 1.00
1998       -               306,846   =   US$ 1.00
2/28/99  Closing Date        341,316   =   US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
PCU  - Project Coordination Unit
ASKI  - Ankara Water and Sewerage Administration
KfW   - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
EIB  - European Investment Bank
UFW   - Unaccounted for Water
MIS  - Management Information System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 1
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Director Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Walter A. Stottmann, ECSIN
Team Leader: Bernardo Gomez, ECSIN



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY                         FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ANKARA SEWERAGE PROJECT LOAN 3151-TU
Table of Contents
PREFACE .......................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .......................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  . ........................1
A. Introduction ......................................................1l
B.  Project Objectives .......................................................1
C. Implementation  Experience and Results .......................................................                       2
D. Bank Performance .......................................................4
E. Borrower Performance .......................................................5
F. Assessment of Outcome .......................................................6
G. Operations and Sustainability ......................................................                               10
H. Key Lessons Learned ......................................................                                         10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:    Summary of Assessments ......................................................                            12
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits ......................................................                           14
Table 3:    Project Timetable ......................................................                                  15
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......... 16
Table 5A: Project Component Results ......................................................                            17
Table 5B:  Status of Completion ......................................................                                19
Table 5C:  Project Implementation  Schedule ...................................................... 20
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Performance ............................................... 21
Table 7A: Project Costs ......................................................                                        22
Table 7B: Project Financing ......................................................                                    22
Table 7C:  Project Costs by Component and Source of Funds .............................. 23
Table 8:    Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                          24
Table 9:    Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ......................................................                        25
Table  10:  Bank Resources: Missions ......................................................                           26
Table  11:  Income Statements ......................................................                                  27
Table 12:  Balance Sheets ......................................................                                      28
Appendices:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Cofinancier contribution to the ICR
D. Map (IBRD 21862)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
ANKARA SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 3151-TU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Ankara Sewerage
Project in Turkey, for which Loan 3151-TU in the amount of US $173.0 million
equivalent was approved on December 21, 1989 and made effective on January 23, 1991.
The loan was closed on February 28, 1999, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1998. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on May
25, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Bemardo Gomez, Infrastructure Unit Group,
Europe and Central Asia Region, with the assistance of Messrs. Nissenbaum
(Consultant), Orhon and Sirer, and Ms. Noel and reviewed by Messrs. Stottmann and
Halperin.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in October 19, 1998, which was supplemented by an additional mission in
November 1998. It is based on material obtained during these. missions and contained in
the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing
views that are reflected in the initial mission's Aide-Memoire and by preparing an
evaluation of the project's implementation. This ICR has also benefited from the
comments submitted by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the principal co-financing
institution, which are contained in Appendix C to this Report.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
ANKARA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 3151-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.   In the early 1 980s, the Turkish Government undertook to reduce the relatively
high national deaths caused by water-borne diseases and sewage-based pollution, and to
meet the demands of high population growth on urban water and sewer facilities. The
latter's aging infrastructure was increasingly unreliable, many consumers lacked access to
sewer connections, and there were few sewage municipal treatment plants. Consequently
in 1981, the Government began to create water and sewerage authorities in the main cities
for developing and operating local sector systems, which were to become self-sustaining.
2.    The Project aimed at helping the Ankara Water and Sewerage Administration
(ASKI) reduce health hazards and stimulate environmental improvements by eliminating
the discharge of untreated sewage into the Ankara River; improving sewerage services for
some 500,000 customers and extending them to about 850,000 more persons; and
reducing flooding in heavily affected parts of the city. It consisted mainly of the
construction of network and collector sewers, two northern interceptors, and a sewage
treatment plant, along with mapping ASKI's service area and institutional improvements.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The Project was scheduled over a 9-year period, partly to stretch out ASKI's
funding of the costly activity, and it took that long to actually complete the operation. Its
final cost (US$597.2 million) was only about 7.3 percent above the appraisal estimate.
The funding plan changed significantly, mainly because of ASKI's repeated inabilities to
mobilize the required local funds. To compensate, the company obtained an EIB loan
and an additional KfW credit plus substantial increases in the Bank's portion of civil
works financing. At the end, the IBRD's share amounted to 17 percent of expenditures,
somewhat over half of the planned portion of total costs.
4.    Loan disbursements lagged behind schedule throughout. Loan effectiveness was
delayed by 14 months because of difficulties in tying down KfW's cofinancing.
Moreover, operations were not properly launched for several years, with slow progress in
organizing the project coordination unit (PCU) and the main civil works consortium. It
encountered difficulties in obtaining Municipal Council approvals for adequate tariffs,



ii
which ASKI only became able to adjust independently to compensate for inflation after
several years. The company accordingly engaged in short-termn commercial bank loans
and did not fully service its debts.
5.    Project implementation was also adversely affected by the unsatisfactory
performance of the first civil works contractors under the Project and the ensuing
cancellation of the contracts. This failure was due to a large extent to inadequate
prequalification criteria. Based on this unsatisfactory experience the Bank requested
ASKI to reconsider the prequalification criteria for further contracts. Reaching
agreement on adequate criteria proved to be difficult because ASKI wished to engage
many small contractors and feared that setting the qualifying bar too high would rule out
many of them. Ultimately, effective supervision work led to a solution of the
qualification issues by agreement on the division of large procurement packages into
several smaller contracts. In addition, the Bank sought to facilitate tendering by
accepting post-qualification for some of the large works contracts, which also helped
meet ASKI's concerns.
6.    Once the works got fully underway, largely after the 1994 change in ASKI's
management team, project implementation became considerably more effective and
eventually was judged satisfactory because of improved performance. In the final tally,
ASKI successfully completed the sewage treatment plant and concluded all the other
contracted works save for Macun collector, which was declared misprocurement by the
Bank and cancelled by ASKI at a later stage because of the contractor's poor
performance.
7.    All the works finished were accomplished within the planned implementation
period. This was commendable in view of the expanded scope of several components
because of the enlarged Municipal area, as well as the numerous project execution
problems. Some important institutional components were not promptly tackled and the
Management Information System (MIS) was not even initiated when the Project
terminated. Just before then, ASKI finally arranged to procure part of the scheduled 0
and M equipment.
8.    Project execution was also hurt by the lack of effective arrangements for
settlement of Ankaran public entities' debts to one another. There has long been a messy
situation in which numerous agencies routinely fail to pay one another for services or
goods rendered. The Central Government in year 8 of project implementation authorized
agencies to use their budget allocations to offset their respective delinquent bills--but the
problem still exists. National officials aptly see it as a local government financial issue,
for which they have persistently sought remedial legislation, so far in vain. This
circumstance has produced some lack of discipline and transparency in public finances.
Meanwhile, the delinquent public agencies still rank high in ASKI's continued large
accounts receivables.



iii
Bank and Borrower Performance
9.    The Bank's performance in project preparation was inadequate. By current
standards, the operation could exemplify "poor quality at entry". Several significant
problems were identified during project preparation but no viable solutions for them were
then defined. There was perhaps excessive haste in processing the Project, especially
with a first time borrower.
10.   The appraisal failed to adequately assess whether the Project might exceed
ASKI's financial capabilities. It did not identify, let alone make suitable provisions for
overcoming, ASKI's lack of preparedness for carrying out large scale works under
international procurement, financial control or auditing standards. Moreover, there was
virtually no appreciation of ASKI's restricted autonomy for mobilizing financial
resources and applying efficient incentives and personnel management under its limited
independence from the Ankara Municipality. To exacerbate these shortcomings, ASKI's
institutional problems surfaced early on and could have been addressed while the Project
was still getting off the ground in 1991-94. Yet there seems to be little indication of any
Bank remedial initiatives at this juncture or any consideration of a midterm review.
11.   Nonetheless, ASKI today is a much more able, modem organization than when
the Project began, thanks partly to the Bank's and KfW's norms and persistence in
addressing problem areas. These clearly set standards for which some of the more
successful aspects of ASKI's development are credited. The Project therefore
successfully transmitted significant knowledge. ASKI also commended the Bank's
flexibility on the increased civil works financing and the understandings achieved on
procurement.
12.   The Borrower's performance was uneven. Although slow, the company's
progress under the Project was ultimately successful and the sewerage improvements
scored are salutary. Conversely, ASKI fell short of satisfactory financial and managerial
administration. It did pursue the Project with considerable determination but its direction
of the activity was not altogether effective. It failed to set up and to staff the PCU
suitably. It also focused the Unit too narrowly on civil works and it delayed unduly in
hiring competent persons for annual financial audits. Government support was deficient
in failing to provide a suitable policy environment for the desired decentralization.
Ankara's Mayors were closely engaged in tariff and procurement decisions, at times
reversing ASKI's intentions, and some electoral changes caused turnover in ASKI's top
executives.
Assessment of Outcome and Sustainability
13.   The Project met the objectives of eliminating the discharge of untreated sewage
into the Ankara River, increasing the population served by the main sewer pipes, and
reducing flooding. ASKI achieved the targets for population served (3.1 million served



iv
with water in 1997 vis-a-vis 3.0 million estimated at appraisal; and 3.0 million served
with sewerage vis-a-vis 2.0 estimated).
14.   The SAR projections for ASKI's overall operations in 1988-96 foresaw its
mobilizing over US$ 1.1 billion of sales revenues and customer contributions. However,
these assumptions proved to be optimistic. The 1989-96 figures compared to the
projections show that: (a) the volume of water produced steadily surpassed its target but
total water sales were slightly less than forecast; (b) total operating revenues were 24
percent below the projected sum; (c) operating costs were almost 20 percent greater than
forecast; and (d) net operating income was 43 percent below the projection.
15.   The above reflect ASKI's persistent failures to comply with the Loan's tariff
provisions. Charges averaged 35 percent below targets in 1996-97 and 32 percent below
in 1998. Accounts receivables averaged 4.7 months of current billings in 1989-97
compared to the two-month goal. Further, the volume of UFW has been consistently
excessive, especially through 1993. ASKI's annual net losses in 1989-93 only once
exceeded US$20 million but rose to US$50-119 million in 1994-97. Its foreign exchange
losses averaged US$136 million p.a. in 1994-97 (without which ASKI would have
obtained net profits rather than losses in 1989-97). As a consequence, ASKI only
generated internally somewhat over half of the targeted cash for contributions to annual
investment, with a US$488 million shortfall. The Central Govermment therefore is
effectively subsidizing its investments through the Treasury servicing its foreign debt.
16.   To its credit though, ASKI's management recently succeeded with several
constructive measures. To improve collections, ASKI began cutting off service to tardy
private billpayers and installed 2,549 meters in a pilot pre-paid system focused on high
consumption customers. It also bears noting that, although UFW remains greater than
desirable, the company has steadily reduced its volume by almost a third since 1993.
17.   ASKI's income will likely improve and it could yet come closer to being
reasonably self-sufficient-but much of this depends on forces beyond its control. The
large buildup of foreign exchange losses demonstrates a need for the company's dealing
better with currency uncertainty. Some external assistance in the development of a better
debt management strategy could help. Also, Government action to instill greater public
sector financial discipline appears necessary for solving the inter-agency arrears problem.
In addition, greater ASKI autonomy could help bolster its financial performance.
18.   Some of the Project's shortcomings suggest that its design and execution differed
from the Borrower's attitude towards the project. The Bank and the Central Government
had concentrated on the goal of developing an independent and financially viable entity.
ASKI however saw the project more as a major expansion of its physical infrastructure.
The differences between these views resulted in somewhat conflicting objectives with
negative effects. One was that ASKI appeared to wish to implement the project with
virtually no involvement from the Bank and consultants. Perhaps this stemmed from its
limited involvement in designing the envisioned reforms. Another troubling factor was



v
that the well intended decentralization aims were not accompanied by actions devoted to
how to manage that change. Consequently, ASKI's inadequate independence in financial
policies, employment and procurement deterred the intended efficiency gains. ASKI
believes that training for the staff during project preparation would facilitate
implementation.
19.   The project outturn thus constitutes at least partial failure in the Government's
and Bank's efforts to achieve financially autonomous municipal water companies. The
new model served as a vehicle for building institutional capacity but only relatively
slowly and ineffectually. The project outcome is accordingly judged unsatisfactorily on
the basis of the slow progress on institutional reform. The accomplishments in terms of
physical implementation of the project and of service coverage were satisfactory. ASKI
concurs with the Bank's judgement on institutional reform but considers that the Project
should be rated satisfactorily because of the completion of the investments.
20.   The treatment plant is being suitably run by Belka, a local company, under the
supervision of the construction contractor. Belka is expected to continue managing the
plant management although there appear to have been discussions about privatization
possibilities. For the other works, there are chances of their deterioration unless ASKI
carries out its O&M plan and sustains an effective maintenance program. There are now
no plans for new Bank lending.
Lessons Learned
21.   It is imperative to have a few, clear and fully consistent objectives in efforts to
pioneer a sector change, particularly through activity with a novice institution.
Particularly important is to achieve early on a full understanding on project objectives
that is shared by all key stakeholders, and one that reflects a thorough understanding of
the root causes of the Borrower's problems. Project design should insulate the utilities
from inappropriate political interference and strongly upgrade their managerial
capabilities. Perhaps this is just another way of restating the importance of "quality at
entry."
22.   Another lesson is the importance of not going ahead with projects prematurely,
which includes resolving disagreements on procurement procedures before submitting a
project for Board approval.
23.   Finally, the outcome of this project calls into question the merits of financial
covenants when the implementing agency does not have de facto full authority to take all
the actions needed to assure full compliance.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ANKARA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 3151-TU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.   In the early 1980s, the Turkish Government undertook to reduce the relatively
high national deaths caused by water-borne diseases and sewage-based pollution, and to
meet the demands of high population growth on urban water and sewer facilities. City
water service levels were reasonably high then. However, sewerage service levels were
low as the aging infrastructure was increasingly unreliable, 44 percent of consumers
lacked access to sewer connections and there were few municipal sewerage treatment
plants. The Government thus sought substantially greater sewerage investments but it
was reluctant to have these made in traditional ways. This was because the authorities
considered that past expenditures largely produced incomplete works and wastage,
mainly due to the weak planning and supervision by Iller Bank. On this account as well
as to limit national budget expenditures, the Government decided to vest greater
responsibility in and to mobilize larger investment resources from local levels.
2.    Consequently in 1981, the Government began to create water and sewerage
authorities in the main cities as separate, autonomous entities for developing and
operating sector systems. The objective was to have these become financially self-
supporting, thereby replacing the previous dependence on central government funding.
This model was first launched in Istanbul and extended to Izmir and other metropolitan
areas. Subsequently, the Government concluded that this approach was working well in
those cases and requested assistance for a project in Ankara on this basis.
3.    Many of the capital's residents were then being served by an extensive water
distribution network and an estimated 79 percent of the population had access to some
piped sewerage. However, there was excessive unaccounted-for water (UFW) in
transmission and distribution, no sewage was treated and most sewers were just idly
discharged, eventually into the Ankara River.
B. Project Objectives
4.    The planned Bank assistance was intended to help bring about better investment
planning, more rigorous controls over contracting and improved construction activity,
increased managerial and financial autonomy, and improved cost recovery, billing and



2
collections. The Project sought to advance these in the course of assisting the Ankara
Water and Sewerage Administration (ASKI) to provide new facilities and to rehabilitate
existing ones so as to stimulate environmental improvements and reduce health hazards.
The Project's physical goals were: (a) eliminating the discharge of untreated sewage into
the Ankara River; (b) improving services for some 500,000 customers already connected
to sewers; (c) providing about 850,000 other residents access to these services; and (d)
reducing flooding in heavily affected parts of the city.
5.    The project's works consisted mainly of the construction of network sewers for
existing and new city development areas; five major collector sewers and two pumping
stations; southern and northern interceptors; and a sewage treatment plant (with KfW
support), along with drainage works. The scheme also called for computerized mapping
of ASKI's service area and treatment plant site, expanding operation and maintenance
equipment, and improving its management systems.
C. Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The Project was scheduled over a 9-year period in recognition of ASKI's financial
constraints so as to facilitate its funding of the investments, and it actually took that long
to complete them. While their final cost was close to the appraisal estimate (US$597.2
million actual vis a vis US$556.8 million), there were considerable disparities between
the planned and actual expenses for some components, and several others were dropped.
The largest activity, the sewage treatment plant, had an about 33 percent cost overrun
with the addition of a belt filter press, sludge digesters and biogas generators. A large
service area expansion caused by population growth raised costs for sewer-related works,
collectors and mapping. Conversely, less than 20 percent of the funds scheduled for
maintenance equipment and technical assistance were spent, and other reductions
followed the Lira's lagged devaluations vis a vis other currencies.
7.    The Bank expected to finance 31 percent of total costs, ASKI 52 percent and KfW
17 percent but this plan changed significantly, mainly because of ASKI's repeated
inability to mobilize the required local funds. To compensate, it obtained an EIB loan
and additional KfW credit, more than doubling the non-IBRD foreign financing portion.
At the end, the Bank's share amounted to 17 percent of expenditures, ASKI 48, KfW 27
and EIB 8. This followed the Borrower's cancellation of over a third of Loan 3151's
principal in 1996-97 after acquiring the incremental KfW and EIB funds. The partial
cancellation of unused Loan funds was mutually agreed after the grace period had
expired, at which time the Bank loan ceased to be financially attractive.
8.    Loan disbursements lagged behind schedule throughout: 57 percent of their final
total occurred in the last two years. The Loan was only declared effective 14 months
after its approval because of difficulties in tying down KfW's cofinancing. Moreover,
project activity was not fully begun for several years. ASKI was dilatory in organizing
itself for the task and the terms of reference for its project coordination unit (PCU) were
only settled in the fourth year. Not all the firms who ultimately formed the main civil



3
works consortium were in place three and one half years after Loan approval. In addition,
the action plan for ASKI's technical assistance was still not ready in year 2 although the
need for this help was evident from the start.
9.    ASKI's funds were almost continuously too limited to meet investment
requirements, largely due to insufficient tariffs and poor billings and collections. As
detailed below, ASKI's tariff levels increased quite substantially during the project period
but they were generally tardy. The company encountered difficulties in obtaining
Municipal Council tariff approvals and it was only able to independently adjust tariffs for
inflation beginning in 1996. The company accordingly repeatedly resorted to short-term
borrowings from commercial banks, not servicing its debts and postponing contractor
payments, employment of required personnel and other needed actions.
10.   Project implementation was also adversely affected by the unsatisfactory
performance of the first four civil works contracts under the Project and these contracts
had to be cancelled. This failure was due to a large extent to inadequate prequalification
criteria. Based on this unsatisfactory experience the Bank requested ASKI to reconsider
the prequalification criteria for further contracts. Reaching agreement on adequate
criteria proved to be difficult because ASKI wished to engage many small contractors and
feared that setting the qualifying bar too high would rule out many of them. Ultimately,
effective supervision work led to a solution of the qualifications issues by agreement on
the division of large procurement packages into several smaller contracts. In addition, the
Bank sought to facilitate tendering by accepting post-qualification for some of the large
works contracts, which also helped meet ASKI' s concerns.
11.   Once the works got fully underway, largely after the 1994 change in ASKI's
management team, project implementation became considerably more effective and
eventually was judged satisfactory because of improved performance. In the final tally,
ASKI successfully completed the sewage treatment plant and concluded all the other
contracted works save for Macun collector, which was declared misprocurement by the
Bank and then cancelled by ASKI at a later stage because of the builder's poor
performance.
12.   All the works finished were accomplished within the planned implementation
period. This was commendable in view of the expanded scope of several components
because of the enlarged Municipal area, as well as the numerous project execution
problems. However, the latter had their costs. All but one of the 12 Bank-financed
contracts were only completed in 1997-98, and all of the EIB/KfW-assisted works were
finished in 1998 (ref. Table 5C). At the same time, the final Bank missions which
reviewed the works accomplished identified no deficiencies and only a need for relatively
minor connections with the treatment plant. ASKI is scheduled to complete these in
1999. Furthermore, supervision teams concurred with ASKI's conclusion that the
procurement practices ultimately agreed upon produced significant competition and



4
resulted in satisfactory quality and prices. It was also agreed that all the contractors who
completed their civil works and consultants generally performed well.
13.   There was tardy implementation too of some other important components, several
of which were not addressed in the first years of project execution, e.g., digital base
mapping of ASKI's service area. The most delayed was establishing the management
information (MIS) system, which was not even initiated when the Project terminated.
Further, it became clear in 1997 that ASKI lacked the essentials for a fully adequate
operations and maintenance (O&M) capability, far more than the planned assistance
would provide. A late start was made with US Government help in defining a plan for
strengthening the company in this capacity; this still remains to be pursued. Towards the
conclusion of project execution, ASKI finally arranged to procure part of the O&M
equipment.
14.   Project execution was also hurt by the lack of effective arrangements for
settlement of Ankaran public entities' debts to one another. There has long been a messy
situation in which public sector agencies routinely fail to pay one another for services or
goods rendered. At appraisal, ASKI's receivables from these constituted the bulk of the
high level of payments it was then owed. This issue was raised in negotiations where the
Central Government promised to intervene. In 1997, it authorized public agencies to use
their budget allocations to offset their respective delinquent bills. This brought some
relief but the problem still exists. National officials have demonstrated appreciation of a
better solution for the problem, which they see as a local government financial issue.
They have persistently sought legislation for this but so far in vain. This circumstance
has produced a lack of discipline and transparency in public finances: it is difficult to
know who are the winners and the losers. Meanwhile, the delinquent public agencies still
rank high in ASKI's continued large accounts receivables, which the company has been
offsetting by not fully servicing its external debts.
D. Bank Performance
15.   The Bank's performance in project preparation was not fully satisfactory. On the
positive side, the planned physical investments were satisfactory and its main issue-the
treatment plant's concept-was satisfactorily settled after extensive discussion among the
Bank, KfW and ASKI. On the negative side, the appraisal attached excessive attention to
narrow engineering and financial concerns (not unusual Bank practice in the late 1980s,
when sector organizational changes were not always examined by staff skilled in public
management). Consequently, by current standards, the Project could exemplify "poor
quality at entry." This was particularly true for a potential activity with a first-time
borrower being asked to undergo a major role change and to undertake substantially
increased investment tasks. Several of ASKI's latent problems were identified during
project preparation review but no viable solutions were defined for them. For that matter,
before the Loan was negotiated, there were signs of serious deficiencies in the
comparable prior projects in Istanbul and Izmir. There seems to be no evidence though of
any Bank actions being taken then to try to avert or limit their repetition with ASKI.



5
There was perhaps excessive haste in processing the Project, as well as in obtaining Loan
approval without firm assurances of KfW's cofinancing.
16.   The appraisal failed to adequately assess whether the Project might exceed
ASKI's financial capabilities. It did not produce a sound financing strategy,
notwithstanding the stretching out of the implementation period to mitigate the annual
financial burden of providing counterpart for the project. As demonstrated in paras. 26-
30, the financial projections were unrealistic.
17.   Nor did the appraisal identify, let alone make suitable provisions for overcoming,
ASKI's lack of preparedness for carrying out large scale works under international
standards for procurement, financial controls or auditing.
18.   Moreover, there was virtually no appreciation of ASKI's restricted autonomy for
mobilizing financial resources and applying efficient incentives and personnel
management under its limited independence from the Ankara Municipality. Finally, the
appraisal erred in conveying the impression that the company's main weaknesses were in
billing and collections, contract administration and management systems without
addressing their institutional root causes. These had to do with the inability of ASKI's
management to run the utility as a commercially oriented entity, free from political
constraints. Furthermore, the project plan was unduly optimistic in assuming that the TA
needed for ASKI's basic ills would come from local sources under Kuwaiti aid.
19.   The Bank's supervision was of mixed quality but better than appraisal. ASKI's
institutional problems surfaced early on and could have been addressed while the Project
was still getting off the ground in 1991-94. In addition, the Bank does not appear to have
applied successful stimuli to getting ASKI adequately organized for and actively
advancing the Project, as the problems discussed in para. 8 demonstrate. And, there
seems to be little indication of any Bank remedial initiatives at this juncture (e.g., the first
systematic attempt to address the procurement problem appears to have begun in 1994) or
any consideration of a midterm review.
20.   Conversely, the Bank's supervision was quite helpful in resolving the
procurement problem and in the persistent requests to the Central Government for settling
the inter-agency accounts receivable issue. In addition, company officers have expressed
appreciation for the Bank's influence during supervision, which they say helped trigger
more aggressive actions on bill collection, water loss reductions and financial practices.
The Bank's involvement therefore successfully transmitted significant knowledge. On
these accounts, the Bank can take credit for having handled reasonably well a project that
had high chances of becoming a total failure.
E. Borrower Performance
21.   The Borrower's performance was poor in several respects. ASKI pursued the
Project with considerable determination, especially after 1994, but its direction of the



6
activity was not altogether effective. Apart from the problems of its slow mobilization
for carrying out the Project noted in para. 8, the company failed to set up and to staff the
PCU suitably early on. It also focused the Unit too narrowly on civil works and required
it to also carry out unrelated routine company tasks for some time. It delayed unduly in
hiring competent persons for annual financial audits and to furnish the data and controls
they required.
22.   These shortcomings however should not obscure the fact that the company's
progress under the Project was ultimately important. Also, ASKI's collaboration with
KfW outside the Project led to useful measures in expanding Ankara's water distribution
system, metering almost all connections and replacing meters (13,114 were purchased in
1988-90).
23.   Government support was deficient in failing to provide a suitable policy
environment for the desired decentralization. Ankara's Mayors were closely engaged in
tariff and procurement decisions, at times reversing ASKI's intentions, and some city
electoral changes caused turnover in ASKI's top executives. Following the 1994
managerial change, the new team suspended project works for some six months, took the
same to appoint a new general manager, and subsequently cancelled and amended several
contracts.
F. Assessment of Outcome
24.   The Project met the physical objectives of eliminating the discharge of untreated
sewage into the Ankara River, increasing the population served by the main sewer pipes,
and reducing flooding. ASKI achieved the targets for population served (3.1 million
served with water in 1997 vis-a-vis 3.0 million estimated at appraisal for the same year;
and 3.0 million served with sewerage vis-a-vis 2.9 estimated at appraisal). On a number
of connections basis, the achievements far exceeded appraisal expectations: water
connections by 1998 were 865,000 vis-a-vis 580,000 anticipated at appraisal and
sewerage connections 848,000 vis-a-vis 550,000. It is not clear how reliable are the
estimates of population density by connection to explain the striking difference between
the planned and the actual number of connections and the close to target population
coverage.
25.   ASKI also issued effluent discharge regulations and has been monitoring
industrial firms' discharges. In the aggregate, these results are not negligible
achievements.
26.   The SAR projections for ASKI's overall operations in 1988-96 foresaw it
mobilizing over US$ 1.1 billion of sales revenues and customer contributions. However,
these assumptions proved to be overly optimistic as ASKI fell far short of attaining the
envisaged financial self-sufficiency. The 1989-96 figures compared to the SAR
projections (ref. Tables 11-12) show that:



7
- Total operating revenues were 24 percent (US$312 million) below the projected
sum. Total water produced (1,887 m3 million) surpassed its target (1,599 m3
million). Total water sold (1,012 m3 million) was close to the forecast (1,038 m3
million).
- Operating costs were almost 20 percent (US$75 million) greater than forecast.
- As a result of the above, the net operating income over this period was 43 percent
(US$388 million) below the projection.
27.   The deficiency in revenues reflects ASKI's persistent difficulties to fully comply
with the Loan's tariff provisions. On average during 1989-96, the actual operating
revenues per m3 sold (US$0.96 per m3 sold at current prices) while close to the marginal
cost ($0.91/ m3) was 22.6 percent below the SAR projection (US$1.24 m3). This shortfall
highlights the optimism about cash generation expected from ASKI. This fact should not
however obscure ASKI' s positive efforts in consistently raising tariffs and ultimate
success in winning the authority to index them. Total operating revenues per m3 sold
(US$0.52 in 1989) increased to $1.14 in 1993 and declined to $1.09 in 1996.
28.   Bill collection was poorer than projected, e.g., as late as 1997, bill collection was
a less than satisfactory 81 percent. Accounts receivables averaged 4.7 months of current
billings in 1989-97 compared to the covenanted two-month. Finally, the volume of UFW
has been consistently excessive, especially through 1993 when it was close to and
sometimes above 50 percent, which partly underlies the higher than expected operating
costs.
29.   These forces have contributed to ASKI's peaking annual net losses. The latter
were only once greater than US$20 million/year and generally lower during 1989-93.
But these losses increased to a range of US$50-119 million/year in 1994-97 as foreign
exchange losses averaged US$136 million p.a. in 1994-97. In the absence of foreign
exchange loses, ASKI would have in fact had net profits rather than the losses it suffered
in 1989-97. There were also over US$21 million penalty interest costs yearly (on
average).
30.   As a result of the above, ASKI only generated internally somewhat over half of
the targeted US$ 1.1 billion cash for contributions to investment (covenanted cash
contribution was 53 percent of project cost), with a shortfall of US$488 million. It was
only able to meet its investment obligations with the support of the Central Government
through the Treasury partially covering ASKI's foreign debt. The company's payables to
Treasury more than doubled over the project period, totaling US$69 million in August
1998. ASKI's overall accounts payable have soared in recent years, from US$37 million
at the end of 1994 to US$88 million at the end of 1997.



8
31.   The internal financial rate of return was not reevaluated for the ICR because the
lack of information in the SAR about the basic assumptions make it difficult to do a
comparable calculation. Nevertheless, the rate of return is likely to be somewhat below
appraisal estimates of 11 percent for sewerage. The lower rate would be the result of
water sales slightly below appraisal estimates, higher operating costs and lower tariff
levels. The project benefits, however, are substantial as the project achieved the targeted
service coverage and the expected environmental improvements (para. 24).
32.   Some of the Project's several shortcomings were partly due to ASKI's
unfamiliarity with Bank policies. There were many instances of distinctly differing
interpretations as to what was needed to conform to IBRD procurement guidelines and
the Loan-specified procedures, which often led to disagreements on how to conduct
procurement. But the problems that emerged suggest that, more basically, the design and
supervision of the scheme differed from the Borrower's views and expectations towards
the Project. This implies a very poor initial understanding between all the key
stakeholders. The Bank and the government had the goal of developing an independent
entity, as reflected in the Loan covenants' stress on self-financing ratios, accounts
receivables' levels and borrowing limits. During supervision, the Bank also stressed this
position. ASKI's view however was shaped more by an emphasis on expanding its
physical infrastructure rather than on improving system operation and maintenance.
Admittedly, these views were not contradictory but they nonetheless resulted in
conflicting perspectives with negative effects. ASKI believes that staff training during
project preparation would have facilitated implementation.
33.   One negative effect of the contradictory views was that ASKI appeared to wish to
implement the project with virtually no involvement from the Bank and consultants. It
seemed frustrated that it had to cope with the Bank's involvement. In part, this stemmed
from ASKI's limited involvement in designing the intended reforms. Also, the company
had little appreciation of the potential benefits of employing technical assistance and the
reasons for its inclusion in the Project; it therefore eschewed outside experts'
involvement. This caused the PCU problems and the tardy actions on the MIS and
operations and maintenance components. These factors may also help explain the
somewhat testy Bank-Borrower project dialogue, especially on how to conduct
procurement, and ASKI's several failures to consult with the Bank on possible large
borrowings and other covenanted matters.
34.   Another troubling factor was that the well intended decentralization aims were not
accompanied by actions devoted to managing that change. Consequently, ASKI's
inadequate independence in financial policies and employment and procurement actions
deterred the intended efficiency gains.
35.   In addition, at the time of appraisal, the Government and the Bank clearly had
high expectations of ASKI's revenue-generating capability. A Loan covenant called for
the company to first generate 45 percent of capital expenditures in 1990-91, and 60



9
percent thereafter. These figures are high by any standards and, by themselves, raise
questions about the realism of the financing plan. Meanwhile, the Guarantee Agreement
did not obligate the Government to assist in any way, and the Municipality (which has a
major say on key matters, including tariff approvals) was not party to a separate legal
agreement.
36.   To its credit though, ASKI's management recently succeeded with several
constructive measures. To improve collections, ASKI began cutting off service to tardy
private billpayers and installed 2,549 meters in a pilot pre-paid system focused on high
consumption customers. It also bears noting that, although UFW remains greater than
desirable, the company has steadily reduced its volume by almost a third since 1993.
37.   Also, it is expected that ASKI's income will improve. The project's physical
accomplishments have not yet reached their full capacity utilization or potential
profitability. There should be revenue increases from the increases in the number of
water and sewerage connections, as well as the fuill impact of the aforementioned
metering expansion. Maintenance improvements should meanwhile save costs.
Moreover, ASKI today is a much more able, modem organization than when the Project
began, thanks partly to the Bank's (and KfW's) presence and persistence in addressing
problems. These sparked advances in ASKI's project management and financial
administration which should improve its bottom line.
38.   On the above accounts, ASKI could yet come closer to being reasonably self-
sufficient-but much of this depends on forces beyond its control. Government action is
needed to instill public sector financial discipline and solve the inter-agency arrears
problem. In addition, more adequate autonomy would help bolster ASKI's financial
performance. So too would further upgrading of the company's internal controls,
commercial and accounting systems. Its external auditors have progressively reduced
their qualifications on the company's financial statements, which were deficient
throughout the project period, but there remains scope for improvement.
39.   Ultimately however, there is a question as to whether a utility owned by the
Municipality will ever be removed from political interference and will have appropriate
incentives to operate efficiently. In more recent loans to Turkey, the Bank has been
advocating private sector participation, and that seems to represent a more promising
strategy for better operation of the utility.
40.   Therefore, the project outturn constitutes a partial failure in the Government's and
Bank's efforts to achieve financially autonomous municipal water companies. The new
model served as a vehicle for building institutional capacity but only relatively slowly
and ineffectually. The Project outcome is accordingly judged unsatisfactory on the basis
of the slow progress in institutional reform. The accomplishments in terms of physical
implementation of the project and of service coverage were satisfactory. ASKI concurs



10
with the Bank's judgement on institutional reform but considers that the project should be
rated satisfactory because of the completion of the investments.
G. Operations and Sustainability
41.   Operation of the Project facilities is considered satisfactory. The treatment plant
is being suitably run by Belka, a local company (of which ASKI is the majority
shareholder), under the supervision of the construction contractor. On termination of the
latter's guarantee period, BELKA is expected to continue managing the plant although
there appear to have been discussions about privatization possibilities. For the other
works, there are chances of their deterioration unless ASKI solves its root institutional
problems, carries out the O&M plan, and sustains an effective maintenance program.
With KfW assistance, ASKI is overseeing the development of a feasibility study for
expansion of water supply in its service area. This is linked to the preparation of a
revised Ankara water supply master plan, scheduled to be completed soon. ASKI also
intends to begin planning the expansion of the treatment plant for meeting post-2005
requirements. There are now no plans for new Bank lending.
H. Key Lessons Learned
42.   It is imperative to have a few, clear and fully consistent objectives in efforts to
pioneer a sector change, particularly through activity with a novice institution.
Particularly important is to achieve early on a full understanding on project objectives
that is shared by all key stakeholders, and one that reflects a thorough understanding of
the root causes of the Borrower's problems. Project design should insulate the utilities
from inappropriate political interference and strongly upgrade their managerial
capabilities. Perhaps this is just another way of restating the importance of "quality at
entry."
43.   Another lesson is the importance of not going ahead with projects prematurely,
which includes resolving disagreements on procurement procedures before submitting a
project for Board approval.
44.   Finally, the outcome of this project calls into question the merits of financial
covenants when the implementing agency does not have de facto full authority to take all
the actions needed to assure full compliance.



11
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A: Project Component Results
Table 5B: Status of Completion
Table 5C: Project Implementation Schedule
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Performance
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 7C: Project Costs by Component and Source of Funds
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11: Income Statements
Table 12: Balance Sheets



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial      Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                     Cl              LI                                 IZI
Financial Objectives                                                                    l
Institutional Development           L               Ig               L                 L
Physical Objectives                                 LI 0              0
Poverty Reduction                   I               []                5
Gender Issues                       LI              L                IZI
Other Social Objectives             [1              []               LE
Environmental Objectives           0                []                5                 5
Public Sector Management            [               ED                n
Private Sector Development           a               5                5
Other (specify)                      5               5                5                 5
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
C. Bank Perfornance                    Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                     [                        E
Preparation Assistance                                      0
Appraisal                                                   FaI
Supervision                        Ic



13
Highly
D. Borrower Performnance                      satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                  D                               FLi
Implementation                                               L D I
Covenant Compliance                          gI j:                           2
Operation (if applicable)                      i                             M
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(L)            (Li                                  ( L
O M  



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title    P_Upo                                Year of   Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Credit 324-TU        To provide assistance for the preparation    1972    Closed
Istanbul Urban       of an urban development program and
Development Project   urban transportation/land model
844-TU               Expansion of Istanbul water supply    1972    Closed
Istanbul Water Supply  system; establishment regional Authority
2159-TU              Expansion of sewerage system and      1982    Closed
Istanbul Sewerage I    strengthening of water and
sewerage authority (ISKI)
2537-TU Cukurova    Preparation studies for Cukurova Urban  1985    Closed
Region Engineering    Development Project
Project
2818-TU              Water supply, sewerage and sewage     1987    Closed
Izmir Water Supply   treatment facilities for Izmir
and Sewerage Project
2819-TU              Urban infrastructure, improvement of  1987    Closed
Cukurova Urban       policies, institutional and financing
Development Project   arrangements got Cukurova Region
Following operations
3565-TU              Water supply and sewerage             1993    Active
Bursa Water and
Sanitation Project
3893-TU              Expansion of water supply, wastewater  1995    Active
Antalya Water Supply  and drainage systems; institutional
and Sanitation Project  strengthening; changes in municipal
financial policies for Antalya
4315-TU              Water supply and sewerage, including  1998    Active
Cesme-Alacati Water   wastewater pre-treatment plant
Supply and Sewerage
Project
43880-TU             Restoration of basic infrastructure in  1998    Active
Emergency Flood      municipalities and rural areas affected by
Recovery Project     flood; and reducing of vulnerability to
future floods and earthquakes



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned                     Actual Date
Identification (Executive           N.A                            June 1988
Project Summary)
Preparation
Appraisal                           N.A                        February 1989
Negotiations                        N.A                         October 1989
Board Presentation             December 1989               December 21, 1989
Signing                        February 1990                 August 16, 1990
Effectiveness                    May 1990                    January 23, 1991
Project Completion             November 1998                  November 1998
Loan Closing                 December 31, 1998              February 28, 1999



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Fiscal Year    Appraisal Estimate         Actual        Actual as % of
Estimate
FY90                 4.50                0.00               0
FY91                21.80                1.59              7.3
FY92                49.20                6.45              13.0
FY93                80.00                9.17              11.5
FY94                110.80              15.11              13.6
FY95                134.80              21.94              16.3
FY96                153.80              44.56             29.0
FY97*               101.80               81.87             80.8
FY98*               107.00              100.70             94.2
Note: * US$66 million cancelled (US$46 million January 1996, US$20 million, June 1997). "Appraisal
Estimate" and "Actual as % of Estimate" figures therefore reflect the reduction in Loan amount.
Date of last disbursement: October 27, 1998



17
Table 5A: Project Component Results
Part A: Sewage Collection                                     Part A: Sewage Collection
I-a- Construction of network sewers (0,2-0,5 m dia). i) to provide a  I-a- All works planned within the existing city boundary, outside
new system in the planned areas within the existing city boundary  the boundary and , in the squatter areas were completed.
593.4 km length. ii) to provide a new system in neighboring areas  Although 1,978 km. of sewer collection was planned, actually
outside of the boundary 169.3 km length. !n) to provide a new and to  2,058 km. were constructed in line with the extension of the
replace a part of the existing, system in the gecekondu areas 318.2 km   metropolitan municipal boundary.
of new sewers and 342.7 km of replacement sewers IV) change of the
existing combined system to a separate system (377.7 km length) V)
replacement of parts of the existing system in planned areas 178.7 km
length.
b- About 7.100 new manholes would be provided and 2700 manhole   b- 2,700 manholes were reconstructed. 40,350 new manholes
would be reconstructed.                                      were constructed instead of 7,100. The number incorporates
manholes for the sewer and drainage and the increase was due to
expansion of the total length of the pipes and culverts.
2- Construction of five major collectors (incesu, hatip, baglum,  2- Incesu and Hatip collectors were constructed as planned.
macun, yenikent/saray) 102.7km length 0.5-2.02m dia. And two  Macun collector was tendered under 100% ASKI finance and
pumping stations (incesu ,ova creek) to pump sewage from the  68% completed by the end of 1998. ASKI cancelled the contract
outlying areas of G6lba5i (0.25 cu/m/sec. Pumping capacity) and  due to contractor's inefficiency and default. ASKI is planning to
Yenikent (0.18 cu m/sec. Pumping capacity).                  tender the remaining 32% of works in 1999. Baglum and Saray
collectors were not implemented because they were outside the
boundaries of the extended metropolitan municipal area. Part of
the sewage from these zones is being collected by means of
connections to the nearby passing collectors.
3- Construction of two major interceptors one to the  north (the  3- All works planned were completed.
northern interceptor 6.6 km length;-0,5-1,4 m dia) and the other to the
south (the southern interceptor 27.0 km length 2.4-4.0 m.dia) of the
Ankara river.
Part B: Sewage Treatment:                                     Part B: Sewage Treatment:
1- Construction of bar screens and grit tanks on the Southern  1- Bar screens and grit tanks on the southern interceptor were
Interceptor.                                                  not implemented because of change in design. These units were
constructed at the inlet of the sewerage treatment plant.
2- Construction of and provision of equipment for a biological sewage   2- All works and equipment planned were constructed and
treatment plant to treat a flow up to 8.9 cu.m./sec. Using the activated   provided. The plant capacity was reduced from 8,9 to 7,5 cu.m
sludge process, the plant would comprise tanks and equipment for  per sec due to final design criteria without affecting the targeted
primary sedimentation, aeration, settling and sludge digestion  year 2002 requirements (equivalent to 3,900,000 inhabitants).
The original plant cost was increased due to incorporation of belt
filter press, sludge digesters and biogas generators to the scope
of works.
Part C: Drainage:                                             Part C: Drainage
1- Construction of collectors drains (41.0 km of 0.5-2.0 m. dia  1- All works planned were implemented. Although 45.8 km. of
pipelines and 4.8 km of 2m*2m box culverts).                  collectors were foreseen, actually 500 km. of drainage system
was constructed.



18
Part D: Mapping:                                             Part D: Mapping:
1- 1 to 1000 scale digital (computerized) mapping of ASKI's service    1- Digital maps for the planned service area were completed.
area and sewage treatment plant site, including data collection and  Additional digital maps due to increase of municipal area of
recording of the existing sewerage and drainage systems;     about 55,000 ha are still under preparation and scheduled for
completion by July, 1999. Data collection and recording of the
existing sewerage and drainage systems were implemented as
planned.
Part E: Operation and Maintenance:                           Part E: Operation and Maintenance
Provision of operation and maintenance (O&M) vehicles and    Vehicles and machinery were contracted and scheduled for
equipment for television inspection of sewers.               delivery by the end of Feb 1999. Equipment for TV inspection
of sewers were not provided due to the cancellation of the tender
by ASKI originating from the technical non-responsiveness of
the bids. ASKI is not intending to re-tender these items,
intending to perform this inspection through private contractors
whenever necessary.
Part F: Technical Assistance and Training:                   Part F: Technical Assistance and Training
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the  Training provided for ASKI personnel to strengthen O&M
borrower in O&M, billing and collection, management controls and  functions. Billing is done with computers. An effective
systems and contract administration.                         management information system is still lacking in ASKI.



19
Table SB: Status of Completion
CON.              CONTRACT               |   Contract       Contract Price    Scheduled          Extended           Actual
NO                  TITLE                     Signed              $           Completon        Completlon       Completion
I___________________                    DatD            Date               Date
WB Financed Components                                                                                            . .
1    Southern Interceptor Sewer,Dikmen                                                                           Terminated
Collector& Y0kseltepe Area Sewers       02120/92         9,706,068                                        on 1012711993
|    Incesu Collctor and Tunus &                                                                                 Terminated
Bsahqeevler Sewers                      12/117/92       19,503,151                                        on 0W117/1994
3'  Hatip Colector and 8attalgazi &                                                                             Terminated
Onder Area Sewers                       1 230192        17,909,334           _                       _    on MI1711994
SS*  Lower OutfaY Interceptor                                                                                    Terminated
10114i93        27,983,401                                        on 04t1311995
1A   Southem Interceptor Sewer
02/27/95        12,911,986         11/30/9         06/10/97         06/10/97    |
3A   Natip Collector 
09/29/95        11,455,713         10/17198                          10117/98
3B  iskitler Colector & Battalgazi &
Onder Area Sewers                       09/29195        17,104,577         101118/98                         10118198
5A   Upper Outfall Interceptor 
10122/93        23.995,294        1i107(96          12/31/97         12t31/97
SBI  Lower Outfall Interceptor I
11124/95        14,457,130        06109/97         06/24197         06/24/97
Sall Lower Outfall Interceptor 11
11/24/95        14,677,710        06W10/97                         W0610197
6   Qubuk Cotec. & Krrkkonaklar
Area Sewers                             08/06/93        12.816,925         08(22/97         04/04/98         04/04/98
7   North-Eastem Collec. & Ekin
Area Sewers                             10/14/93        20,653,514         11/07/97                          11/07/97
IIA Osmaniye & Ovai;ayt Collec.
09129/95        9,020,698          10/13/98                         10113/98
11B  YalYncakdzu & AlUncioglu Collec.
09/29/95        8,759,422          10/14/98                          10/23/98
13   Existing Southem Interceptor
08/09196        2,302,405         08/31/97          10(02/97         10/02/97
14 Sincan (S.C.A) Foul-Stormwater
_ Sewers and Potable Water Network      05(29/97         2.724,630         08/15/98                          06/198
EIB Financed Components
2A   lncesu Collector
09/29/95        16.829,726         10/15/98                          10/1S/98
SA   Upper Northem
Interceptor                             09129/95         8,211,857         10/10198                          10(10/98
9B   Lower Northem
Interceptor                             09129/95        8,684,528          10111198                          10/11/98
10   Northem Collectors
09/29/95        19,235.793         10(11/98                          10/16/98
12 Mogangliu and
Imrahor Colectors                       09129/95        7,793,082          1012V98                          10tt2V98
15   Sincan-EUlmesgut Area Southem
I_ nterceptor (111                             07/07/97         4,376,873         11/02/98                          11/02(98
KfW Financed Components
=   (Construction of Ankara Wastewatbr&             0/05/92       176,442.917          12/05/961        02t01(9t         02/01/8
ITreatment Plant                                                      I _                                   _._.________
Power Station                           07105/96       10,651t,660 1       02/01l981               1 i       0
Contracts 1, 2. 3. and 5B were terminated by ASKI due to; a) the opinion that the contract prices were higher than the curent local pries,
b) the increase in scope because of the munidpal coverage area. These contracts were retendered under the contracts IA, 3A. 36, and 581
and 582.
- Contractual date means the date set in the contract signed.



20
Table 5C: Project Implementation Schedule- Cumulative Physical Completion (%)
Contract                                       1989  1990  1991  1992   1993   1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
No                                         Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual
WB LOAN=.
1     Southem Interceptor Sewer.Dtmen
Collector& Yukseltepe Area Sewers                         26      55
2      Incesu Collector and Tunus &
_ Bahcelievler Sewers                                              6       6
3      Hatip Collector and Battalgazi &
Onder Area Sewers_                                                 1
5B     Lower Outfal Interceptor
2
1 A    Southem Interceptor Sewer
30    97    100
3A     Hatip Codector
~~~_                                                                                  30    78    100
3B     Iskitler Collector & Battagazi &
Onder Area Sewers                                                         _            36    89    100
5A     Upper Ouffall Interceptor
3     39    93    100
581     Lower OutfaUl Interceptor I
87    100
5B2    Lower Outfall Interceptor II
100
6      ;ubuk Collec. & Kirkkonaldar
Area Sewers                                                        0      9      48    90    100
7      North-Eastem Collec. & Elin
Area Sewers                                                               11    41      84    100
11 A    Osmaniye & Ovar,ayi Collec.
49    84    100
11 B    Yalincakozu & Altinc,oolu Couec.
34    72    100
13     Existing Southem Interceptor
.__ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                              _  _                         100
14     Sincan (S.CA) Foul-Stormwater
-__==_ Sewers and Potable Water Network                                                                   41    100
EIB LOAN*
2A     lncesu Collector
______.__                                                                              50    78    100
9A     Upper Northern
Interceptor                                                                            42    84    100
9B     Lower Northrm
Interceptor                                                                            47    92    100
10     Northem Colectors
58    98    100
12     Mogangoll and
Imrahor Codlectors                                                                      52    86    100
15     Sincan-Etimesgut Area Southem
Interceptor (II)                      _                         _                             68    100
KflN
|     1      Sewage Tr.Plant-Civil Works                                0 |25          35  |43    74 j 97 1100
________         &quipmentT-
*Six World Bank-financed contracts
are replaced by EIB.



Table 6: SELECTED KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT PERFORMANCE (1988-1997)
Monitoring Indicators                         19S8                  1989                 1990                1991                 1992                1993                 1994                1995                 1996                 1997
Water Supply                             SAR      ACTUAL      SAR      ACTUAL       SAR     ACTUAL SAR           ACTUAL      SAR     ACTUAL      SAR      ACTUAL SAR          ACTUAL      SAR      ACTUAL      SAR      ACTUAL      SAR      ACTUAL
Population Served (million)              2.234     2.440     2.305      2.500       2.378     2.584     2.453     2.643     2.641      2.704     2.716     2.766      2.78      2.830      2.91     2.895      2.974     2.962      3.039     3.110
Number ofconnectons(thou-andO)          429.7     426.43      440       4d6.60      454      532.59      468      577.94     504       642       518.5     675.4     530.7      725.8     555.3     775.1      567.7     818.8     580.1    865.01
Sewemge
Populabon Coonedtd(mdlions)              2.09      2.07       2.16       2.25       2.23      2.40      2.30      2.51       2.49      2.57      2.58      2.63       2.64      2.72      2.76       2.78      2.82      2.90       2.88      3.05
Number of Connedons(thousands)          402.0      362.5     411.9      437.4      425.2      495.3      439      549.0     475.3     609.9      491.7     641.6     503.3      696.8     526.7     744.1      538.4     802.4     550.2      847.7
Peronmance parameters
Collection Ratio(%)                       -        57.00       -        59.00         .       68.08       -       72.00       -        79.00       -       76.00       -        86.00       -       78.00       -        77.00       -        81.00
Total openrating revenues Per m3 sold    0.36      0.39       0.68       0.52       0.95      0.82      1.10       0.90      1.25      1.12      1.29       1.14      1.37      0.98       1.44      0.99      1.51       1.09                0.91
Total operating Cost Per m3 sotd         0.27      0.25       0.27       0.28       0.30      0.51      0.33       0.49      0.34      0.66      0.40      0.58       0.41      0.34      0.42       0.36      0.43      0.41                 0.36
Operaong Raio                           70.85      63.39     40.17      54.85       31.47     62.65     29.85     55.02     26.65      58.66     30.58     51.26     30.05      34.83     28.91     36.57      28.15     37.41                39.65
Unacaounted-for Water                    0.45       0.51      0.42       0.49       0.40      0.56      0.39       0.48      0.38      0.51      0.35       0.47      0.33      0.44       0.30      0.40      0.27      0.37       0.25      0.34
Other Operattonalt Indicator.                                                                                                                                     I                              I         I 
Water Produced(mil m3)                  175.60     166.61    174.10        202.37   176.50    234.06    185.08    234.28    203.70    238.12    206.00    252.92    212.10    252.67    220.10    235.15    221.60    239.74       226.00    248.37
Water Sold(mil m3)                       986.60    92.14     101.00     103.82     105.90    103.24    112.80    122.39    126.30     116.27    133.90    134.03     142.10    140.59    154.00    140.95     161.60     150.70    169.80    183.41
Total operating Revenues(US$ million)    36.40     36.01     68.70      53.61      100.10     84.90     123.60    109.94    157.90    129.86    173.30    152.89     194.00    137.53    222.10    139.62    244.80      163.7g8             149.41
Total operatig Cost(US$ migion)         25.79      22.83     27.60      29.41      31.50      53.13     36.90     60.49     42.40      76.17     53.00     78.37     58.30      47.90     64.20     51.06      68.90     61.26                59.24
Debt Senrvce(USS million)'               9.90      5.57      12.80       7.03       15.20     8.64      22.40      9.15     25.90      11.34     30.20     14.34     32.80      14.60     47.60     20.65      43.40     30.15                35.39
Cash Available for Investments(US$millio)-         10.77                 1.43        -        32.13               53.37                51.76       -       33.66       -        30.67       -       46.51        -       37.23                56.93       )
Total investment(US$ million)            28.50     13.47     47A40      37.54      105.80     47.18     195.40    56.37     200.30     98.44    177.00     93.39     123.70     34.31     79.90     78.47      63.20     178.03               161.59
Contdbution to Total lnvestmonlsluS$milljool'      10.90                19.31                 36.54               39.02                42.06               56.67                24.72                50.34               53.87                69.15
*Debt service requirement
:,Cash basis



22
Table7A: Project Costs
I    PROJECT COMPONENTS    C              % of total       I % of total l
l _____________________________   Sar      cost    Actual    1  cost
A. Sewers
(Network,Collector,
Interceptors)
includes Drainage
Sub-Total:Sewers                 376.00    67.53   362.08  60.63
B. Sewage Treatment
Treatment Plant a/   146.40          186.18
Land                2.60              11.41
Sub-Totai:Sewage Treatment Plant   149.00    26.76   197.59  33.09
C. Related Inputs
Mapping              3.00             10.87
Eng.for Sew.+Dr.    18.80             22.26
Maint.Eqiupment      7.20              3.66
TA&Training         2.80               0.71
Sub-Total:Related Inputs          31.80     5.711   37.50   6.28
TOTAL PROJECT COST        -        556.8   100.001   597.21 100.00
Table 7B:Project Financing
Source                                            I
IBRO Loan                        173.0     31.1    100.9      16.9
EIB                                -        -        50.4      8.4
KfW Credit                        91.9     16.5    160.0      26.8
ASKI intemal cash generation     291.9     52.4    285.9      47.9
Total financing                1   556.81    100.01 .  597.21  100.0 1
/1: Figures include an estimated US$ 50.40 million equivalent in value added taxes.
The actual cost of WWTP and stormwater drainage exceeded the estimated cost in
SAR due to changelincrease in the scope of works. The total cost of sewers
decreased due to cost savings in spite of the increase in scope. On the whole,
the total project cost has increased about 7.3%.



23
Table 7C: Project Cost by Component and Source of Funds
World Bank      EIB         KfW         ASKI         Total
Amount      Amount       Amount      Amount       Amount
Sar I Actual  Sar Actual Sar | Actual Sar  Actual  Sar      I Actual
A. Sewers
(Network,Collector,
Interceptors)
includes Drainage
Sub-Total:Sewers    1144.50 78.36      50.42             231.50 233.30 376.00 362.08
B. Sewage Treatment
Treatment Plant al                        91.90 159.88 54.501 26.30 146.40 186.18
Land                                       0.00  0.00  2.601 11.41  2.601 11.41
Sub-Tota[:Sew.+Tr.                            91.90 159.88 57.10 37.71 149.00 197.59
C. Related Inputs
Mapping           2.70  0.62                            0.30j 10.25  3.00 10.87
Eng.for Sew.+Dr.   17.10 17.47                          1.70  4.79  18.80 22.26
Maint.Eqiupment    6.20  3.66                           1.00  0.00  7.201 3.66
TA&Training       2.50  0.71                           0.30  0.00  2.801  0.71
Sub-Total:Rel.lnputs    28.501 22.46         _             3.301 15.04 31.801 37.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST  173.01 100.8   0.0  SOA5   91.91 159.9 291.91 286.1  556.81 597.2
a/ Includes Engineering



24
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
LA       2.02(b)      2         C     Establishment of Special       None
Account
LA       3.01(a)      5         C     Borrower commitment to         None
Project
LA       3.01(b)      5         C      Borrower execution of the    None
Project
LA        3.03        6         C     Maintenance waste              None
management standards
LA        4.02        5        CP    Maintenance of Borrower's   None
plant and equipment
LA       5.01 (b)     1         C      Maintenance of project        None
records and accounts
LA       5.01(c)      1        CP    Auditing of accounts            None
LA        5.02        4        NC    Self-financing ratio            ASKI failed to reach
targeted levels.
LA        5.03        2        CP    Reduction of accounts           Accounts receivables
receivable                    consistently exceeded
the covenanted target.
LA       5.04(a)      2         C      Reporting of investments      None
LA       5.04(b)      2        CP    Agreement on external           None
borrowing
LA       5.05(a)      2        CD    Revaluation of assets           Only late in project
period.
LA       5.05(b)      1        CP    Maintenance appropriate         None
accounting system
Covenant types:                                                          Present Status:
1. =  Accounts/audits              8. =  Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue  9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting    C =  covenant complied with
generation from beneficiaries   10.=  Project implementation not  CD  =  complied with after
3. =  Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9             delay
funds                      11.=  Sectoral or cross-sectoral      CP  =  complied with
4. =  Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resource           partially
5. =  Management aspects of the            allocation                    NC  =  not complied with
project or executing agency    12.=  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. =  Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7. =    Involuntary resettlement   13. =  Other



25
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle         Planned             Actual
Weeki   US$   Weeks| US$
Preparation to Appraisal         Not available    Not available
Appraisal-Board                  Not available    Not available
Negotiations through Board Approval  18.0    0    5.6     Not available
Supervision                      278.7  233.6    215.9  184.8
Completion                       23.0   37.7      5.2    7.9
TOTAL                           319.7  271.4    221.11  192.7



26
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfommance Rating
Number                     Specialized    Implementation    Development
Stage of         Month/           of         Days in        Staff Skills       Status         Objectives
Project Cycle       Year          Persons       Field
Through Appraisal                                                                       I                I
Appraisal through      Apr-88-Nov-   2                          F, E                    I                I
Board Approval         89
Supervision                                                                             1
I   May-91         0                                                 1                I
2   Oct-91         2                         F, E                    I                I
3   May-92         3                         F, F, E                 1
4   Mar-93         3                                                 2                2
5   Dec-93         2                         F,E                     2                1
6   Jun-94         3                                                 2                2
7   Oct-94         2                         F,E                     U                S
8   May-96         2                         F, E                    U                U
9   Sep-96         2                         F, E                    U                S
10   Feb-97         2                         F, E                    S               S
1 1   Dec-97        2                         F, E                    S                S
Completion             Oct-Nov-98     3                         F, E, C                 S                S
C = Consultant
F = Financial Analyst
E = Engineer



Table 11: Income Statements (1988-1997)
(US$ million)
1988           1989           1990           1991           1992             1993            1994             1995              1996              1997
actual         actual         actual         actual         actual          actual           actual          actual            actual            actual
SALES REVENUE
Water sales Revenue                                      36.01          54.34          83.27         104.73         125.36           148.94          138.85           142.53            173.68            153.55
Service Revenue                                           1.92           2.25           4.95           9.24           7.20            10.09            5.51             7.43              7.52              7.54
deduction                                                -1.92          -2.99          -3.42          -4.03          -2.70            -6.15           -6.84           -10.34            -17.43            -11.68
NET SALES AND SERVICE REVENUE                           36.01           53.61          84.80         109.94         129.86           152.89          137.53           139.62            163.78            149.41
OPERATING EXPENSES
Equipment/Meteral Expenses                    2.81           3.75            5.27           4.82           8.85             8.07            5.87            7.38               6.42             5.57
Personnel Expenses                        8.67           12.08          29.17          36.94          49.10            52.12           30.63           28.40              32.33            30.88
Electrcrty Expenses                       5.99            6.59           9.94          10.61           9.54            10.65            6.41             6.42             10.92             14.96
Dam other Expenses                         3.74           3.56           3.47           2.39           2.87             2.19            2.69             6.51              3.68
Amortisation                            1.61           3.42           5.28           5,73           5.81             5.34            2.31             2.36              7.91              7.83
Total Operating Expenses                    -22.83         -29.41         -53.13         -60.49          -76.17          -78.37           -47.90          -51.06            -61.26            -59.24
OPERATING PROFIT                                         13.18          24.20          31.67          49.45          53.69            74.52           89.62            88.56            102.51             90.17
OTHER OPERATING INCOME
Interest from notes receivable(bonds)            0.08            0.06           0.13           0.17           0.23             0.28            0.23             0.27              0.26              0.16
Interest from Banks                       0.12           0.08            0.08           0.21           0.89             0.46            0.10             1.22              0.17              0.15
penalty Interest icome                      0.74           0.55           1.03           1.27           2.05             2.39             2.41            5.85              6.01              6.06
other                               0.00           0.00            0.00           1.38           0.00             0.02            0.00             0.00              0.00              0.00
Total                               0.94           0.70            1.24           3.03           3.17             3.15            2.74             7.34              6.43              6.37
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES/ LOSSES
interest and commission expenses                         2.52            8.43          12.42           5.69           8.21            14.78            12.48           12.99             14.24             14.48
foreign exchange loses                                   18.03          24.10          28.15          43.44          51.69            81.10           152.77           95.22            130.24            166.14
Penialty interest Expense                                 0.00          17.86           0.00           1.92           0.93             8.37            10.47           22.52             23.11             29.16
Provision expense for doubtful reev.other                0.00            0.00           0.00                                                           3.11             7.48              2.93              5.47
Total                              -20.56        -50.39          -40.57         -58.05         -60.84          .104.25         -178.83          -138.21           -170.58           -215.26
NON-OPERATING INCOME                                      7.33           5.41           7.94           8.58          10.89            26.98             8.65           11 .06            12.13             13.99
NON-OPERATING EXPENSE                                    -0.93          -0.15          -0.56          -2.25           -3.77           -6.05            -1.19           -5.24             -3.46             -3.06
Retirewent pay provision expenses                                        0.00           0.00          -9.40          -11.76          -10.90            -5.07          -13.17              -8.86           -11.54
LOSSI FOR THE YEAR                                       -0.03         -20.23          -0.28           .8.64          -8.63          -16.50           -84.07          -49.66            -61.83           -119.32
1991-1997 ASKI financial statements are audited by private independent external auditors.    1988-1990 financial statements are unaudited.



28
Table 12: Balance Sheets (1988-1997)
(USS million)
1988     1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997
Assets
Current assets
Cash and banks                    2.20      2.54      2.82       3.82      5.00      6.06      7.18      6.27      7.08      9.16
Trade Receivables                 8.53      17.06     19.17     33.98     31.91     30.94     39.28     54.09     59.34     28.56
Other Receivables                 4.51      9.35      17.61      0.15      0.42      0.26      0.13      0.11      1.12      0.92
Unbilled Revenue                   -         -         -        16.36     21.18     20.94     22.00     10.65     26.08     22.72
Advances                           1.76     2.06       2.54      1.27     21.48     25.06     15.14     15.83      5.99      6.96
Stocks                           24.24      19.74     12.59     13.08     19.70     17.29     16.87     11.85     21.36     18.13
Other Current Assets              3.81       -         -         1.87      2.51      3.71      2.14      7.39     10.68      0.69
Total Current Assets             45.04     50.75     54.73      70.53    102.20    104.26    102.74    106.19    131.64     87.14
Long-term Assets
Securities                        0.02      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Participations(net)                -        0.02      0.02       0.01      0.01      0.03      0.01      0.01      0.14      0.49
Tangible Fixed Assets(net)        18.43     53.00     82.97     91.18    105.15    115.70     73.75     99.54    266.55    285.15
Other Investments                24.94     35.40      38.19     19.09     12.51      7.41      2.79      2.79       -         -
Other Long-term Assets            1,69       1.99      3.54      2.90      3.32      1.80      1.08      2.03      4.76     13.84
Total long-term assets           45.08      90.40    124.74    113.18    120.99    124.93     77.63    104.37    271.47    299.48
Total assets            90.12    141.15    179.47    183.72    223.20    229.20    180.36    210.56    403.11    386.62
Liabilities and Equity
Short-term liabilities
Loans                             7.99       -        32.35      1.74       -       19.02     19.29     24.18     25.44     19.59
Trade Payables                    6.76     26.01      11.16     13.44     10.65     12.09      3.87     10.39     33.96      5.01
Other Payables                   10.43     22.22      24.75     42.27     37.89     29.77     32.65     55.18     62.57     83.43
Advances Received                 0.01      0.11       0.37      0.54      0.61      0.64      0.40      0.64      0.38      0.30
Taxes, dues, other charges payable  1.02     1.82      5.77      7.36     16.30      6.01      3.05      5.02      7.47      1.74
Accruals                          0.23       0.29      0.81      0.95      1.05      0.65      2.26      1.16      0.38      0.32
Totalshort-term liabilities      26.45      50.44     75.21     66.29     66.51     68.18     61.52     96.56    130.20    110.39
Long-term liabilities
Loans                            60.59    106.23    115.35    102.31    145.21    152.79    164.99    173.17    268.60    309.22
Retirement Pay Provision           -         -         -        15.04     18.36     19.13     11.11     16.85     16.23     17.04
Total Long-term Liabilities      60.59    106.23    115.35    117.35    163.56    171.92    176.10    190.02    284.82    326.26
Total Liabilities                87.04    156.66    190.56    183.65    230.08    240.10    237.62    286.58    415.02    436.65
Shareholders' Equity
Paid-up Capital                   2.21       1.73      1.37      0.79      0.47      0.28      0.10      0.07      0.04      0.02
Reserves                          0.90       1.36      2.48      1.43      0.85      8.93     15.14      6.69     80.13     86.25
Accumulated Losses(-)            (0.03)   (18.60)   (14.94)    (2.15)    (8.20)   (20.11)   (72.50)   (82.77)   (92.08)  (136.29)
Total Shareholders' Equity        3.08    (15.51)   (11.09)      0.07     (6.88)   (10.90)   (57.26)   (76.01)   (11.91)    (50.03)
Total Liabilities and
Shareholders' Equity        90.12    141.15    179.47    183.72    223.20    229.20    180.36    210.56    403.11    386.62
Note: 1991-1997 ASKI financial statements are audited by pnvate independent extemal auditors.
1988-1990 ASKI financial statements are unaudited.



Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
October 26, 1998
Ankara Sewerage Project (Loan 3151-TU)
World Bank Supervision and Implementation Completion Mission
Aide-Memoire
1.    This draft Aide Memoire summarizes the discussions in Ankara between
Treasury, ASKIt's management and the World Bank mission comprising Alptekin Orhon,
and Ibrahim Sirer. The mission visited ASKI offices and the recently completed sewerage
treatment plant, and some of the construction sites. The mission took place between
October 19 and 26, 1998.
2.    The mission thanks Treasury and ASKI's management and officials for the
assistance and the courtesies received.
Loan Closing Date
3.    The Bank with its letters dated April 23, 1998 and July 27, 1998 informed ASKI
of the closing date of December 31, 1998 as established in the Loan Agreement, and that
the delivery of all goods and services to be financed with the loan proceeds should be
completed by that date.
4.    As the loan closing date is less than three months away, ASKI management and
the mission discussed the actions to be taken by ASKI to: (i) make the best possible use
of the loan proceeds between now and the loan closing date; and (ii) prepare ASKI's
evaluation report on project implementation.
Using the Proceeds of the Bank Loan
5.    ASKI needs to ensure that its contractors and suppliers under the Project promptly
submit their invoices for goods, works, and services provided until the loan closing date.
The mission, however, reminded ASKI that the Bank would be able to process
withdrawal applications received at the Bank's Headquarters by close of business April
30, 1999 in respect of eligible expenditures made before December 31, 1998.
Issuing the Project Evaluation Report
6.    ASKI has agreed to make available to the Bank not later than February 2, 1999
its final evaluation report on the project. ASKI also agreed to assist the Bank in
gathering the necessary information to complete the Bank's evaluation report of the
project. ASKI has agreed to send its comments on the Bank's draft Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) within one month of receiving it.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
7.    ASKI's evaluation report is expected to be ten pages or less. It will be
incorporated in full and unedited to the ICR. If the report is longer than ten pages, ASKI
has agreed to prepare a summary of less than ten pages to be incorporated in the ICR.
The mission provided ASKI with guidelines for the evaluation report, and with examples
of ICRs, including the borrowers evaluation reports.
8.    ASKI management informed the mission that the Deputy General Manager and
Project Manager will be in charge of preparing ASKI's evaluation, of providing to the
Bank the information required to complete its own report, and preparing ASKI's
comments to the draft ICR to be submitted by the Bank.
9.    The ICR comprises the Bank and ASKI's evaluation reports, which should
address primarily:
(i) the assessment of project objectives, design, implementation and operation
experience;
(ii) the evaluation of ASKI's own performance, during the preparation, appraisal
and implementation stages of the project with special emphasis on lessons
learned;
(iii) the evaluation of the performance of the Bank's during the preparation,
appraisal and implementation of the project with special emphasis on lessons
learned;
(iv) the assessment of the project outcome and sustainability; and
(v) the plans for the future operation of the facilities constructed under the project.
10.   ASKI has agreed to assist the Bank in the preparation of the ICR. This support
will generally consist of providing the Bank with all necessary information on the
economic, financial, social, institutional, and environmental conditions in which the
project was implemented, and on implementation and operation results.
Construction of Civil Works
11.   During January-October 1998, ASKI made significant progress in the
implementation of sewerage civil works contracts. 100% of the civil works under the
project (12 contracts financed by the Bank and 6 contracts financed by EIB) are
completed or scheduled to be completed by the end of November 1998. The physical
progress of the Bank, and EIB financed contracts is shown in Annex 2. It is expected that
the project would be completed by the loan closing date (December 31, 1998). As of
October 18, 1998, the undisbursed amount from the loan is US 6.3 million.
Operation of the Wastewater Treatment Plant
12.   The test operation of the Wastewater Treatmnent Plant (WWTP) started in August
1997. The WWTP is now being operated by BELKA, a municipal company, under the
supervision of the contractor according to the guarantee conditions of the contract. ASKI



Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
ASKI is planning to entrust the operation and maintenance of the plant to BELKA once
the guarantee period expires in February 1999.
1998 Financial Situation
13.   During January-August 1998, ASKI's cash generation for investments (US$38.4
million) and the cash period available at the beginning of the period (US$6.3 million)
were sufficient to finance its contribution to investments (US$39.8 million) (Annex 1).
ASKI, however, is still not fully paying its debt to KfW and Kuwait Fund. Treasury is
servicing these debts and ASKI is reimbursing the Treasury in installments. ASKI would
have difficulties in financing its contribution to investments if it serviced its debts fully.
ASKI, on the other hand, is experiencing difficulties in collecting the delinquent water
bills from the public agencies. The issue of overdue account receivables from public
agencies and ASKI's payables to Treasury has remained without change over the years.
14.   As of October 15,1998, ASKI owed about TL 1,8 trillion (US$6.4 million) to
contractors. However, ASKI pays its contractors within two months, which is within
tolerable limits according to the contract articles.
15.   Tariffs: In 1998, except in January, ASKI continued the monthly adjustment of
water and sewerage tariffs on the basis of the wholesale price index. ASKI did not
comply with the tariff covenant in 1998 under the Amendment of the Loan Agreement
which requires maintaining an average water and sewerage tariff of TL 75,647 per m3
sold at January 1996 prices. ASKI's compliance improved in 1998 and reached to 68%
of the covenanted tariff level (Annex 1). In January-August 1998, the average water and
sewerage tariff is about US$0.70 per m3 of water sold (Annex 1).
16.   Collection Ratio: ASKI's January-August 1998 monthly provisional figures
show a collection ratio of 92% which does not reflect reality, because ASKI still has
problems in billing and recording the monthly figures. A more realistic estimate by
ASKI for 1998 is 81%.
17.   Accounts Receivable: The accounts receivable in terms of months billings (4.0
months) deteriorated in January-August 1998 compared to that of 1997 (3.1 months).
ASKI's collection of water bills from public agencies continue being unsatisfactory. In
1998, as in previous years, ASKI continued offsetting its tax payable to the Ministry of
Finance against its receivable arising from the water bills of the public agencies.
18.   As of August 21, 1998, ASKI owes to Treasury about TL 19.1 trillion (US$ 69
million) including the interest and the penalties. As of August 31, 1998, ASKI's
delinquent water bills from the public agencies is about TL 16.3 trillion (IJS$ 59 million)
including penalties for late payment.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
19.   Financial Relations with Municipalities: As of August 31, 1998, Ankara
Municipality and the Municipal Bus Company (EGO), owe to ASKI US$6.2 million,
excluding the water bills.
20.   Ankara Metropolitan Municipality owes ASKI (TL 1.8 trillion equivalent of
US$6.8), and the district municipalities owe (TL 975 billion equivalent of US$3.5
million) which adds up to US$ 10.3 million. These debts are cancelled at the end of each
year with the amounts due by ASKI to the municipalities for asphalt breaking for ASKI' s
repair works.
21.   Debt Service: As mentioned in para 13, ASKI continued not to service its debt to
KfW, and Kuwait Fund. In addition, as in 1996 and 1997, in 1998 Treasury serviced the
ASKI debt (US$4.9 million) to the Bank. ASKI is reimbursing Treasury in six monthly
installments.
Institutional Development Program
22.   Operation and Maintenance: ASKI received the bids for operations and
maintenance equipment on September 17, 1998 and agreed to submit the bid evaluation
report to the Bank by October 30, 1998.
23.   Management Information Systems: ASKI received the bids for the MIS study on
August 3, 1998. Three firms out of six short-listed firms submitted bids. ASKI is still at
the stage of evaluating the technical proposals. ASKI management agreed to submit the
bid evaluation report to the Bank by October 30, 1998.
24.   SCADA System: The first phase of the SCADA System financed by the Kuwait
Fund is fully under operation. The Kuwait Fund agreed to finance the second stage of
the SCADA system from the balances (US$4.5 million) of the existing loan, and also to
extend the loan closing date. The estimated cost of the second stage of the SCADA
system is US$6.5 million. ASKI will finance the remaining amount of US$2.0 million.
On August 27, 1998, ASKI signed a 20 months contract with a Turkish/German/Kuwait
consortium for the design, preparation of bid documents, and supervision of the
installation of the SCADA system in the amount of US$468, 950.
25.   Unaccounted-for Water (UFW): ASKI estimates for 1998 concerning
unaccounted for water is about 35.5% which is higher than the figure for 1997 (34%).
ASKI has yet to decrease the unaccounted-for water to the levels of efficient water
companies (20-25%).
26.   Master Plan Update for Storm Water and Wastewater: ASKI will finance from
its own funds the revision of the master plan for storm and wastewater and the
preparation of related feasibility studies. The contract is scheduled to be signed in
December 1998.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
27.   Digital Mapping: The preparation of digital maps of 1/1000 (ea.4188), and
1/5000 (ea.289) scale covering an area of ha. 154,913 was completed on February 25,
1998 financed by ASKI sources. In addition, ASKI extended the contract to cover 55,000
hectares out of the total additional urban area of 85, 000 hectares. The services are
provided by the Technology Research Department of Hacettepe University. ASKI is
progressively plotting the coordinates of the water and wastewater networks constructed
by local contractors on the digital maps.
28.   ASKI signed a contract on September 23, 1997 in the amount of DM1.9 million
with a Turkish\German consortium for the revision of the water supply master plan to
cover ha. 210,000, financed by a Kf(W grant. The feasibility study of the above-
mentioned extension of 55,000 ha and the preparation of a pilot hydraulic model are also
part of the scope of this contract which is scheduled to be completed by February 2,
1999.
Audits
29.   ASKI submitted, before the due date of June 30, 1998, the audit report prepared
by the private external auditors regarding its 1997 financial statements. The auditors
were unable to express and did not express an opinion on ASKI's 1997 financial
statements due to deficiencies in ASKI's internal control, and commercial and accounting
systems. However, since 1992, ASKI management has made efforts to correct
accounting deficiencies with the result that of qualifications decreased from 22 in 1992 to
3 in 1997.
Loan Covenants
30.   ASKI is out of compliance with Section 5.03, under the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03 is about reducing the accounts receivable to no more than 2 months.
Accounts receivable in terms of months billing in January-August 1998 is about 4.0
months.
31.   ASKI did not comply with Section 5.02 under the Loan Amendments of March
14, 1996 which requires maintaining a minimum average water and sewerage tariff level
of TL 75,647 at January 1996 prices. ASKI achieved 68% of the covenanted tariff level
during January-August 1998.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
ASKI agreed to
a. submit to the Bank the bid evaluation report concerning the MIS study by October 30,
1998.
b. submit to the Bank the bid evaluation report concerning the procurement of machinery
and equipment by October 30, 1998.
c. make available to the Bank not later than February 2, 1999 its final evaluation report on
the project.
d. assist the Bank in ICR preparation.
e. to comment on the Bank's draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within one
month of receiving it.



Appendix B
Page 1 of 8
ASKI'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
A- ASKI GENERAL DIRECTORATE
Ankara Water and Sewerage Administration is founded as Public Corporate Entity with
an independent budget and is connected to Ankara Metropolitan Municipality by decision
of the Board of Ministry dated 13.03.1987 with reference No. 87/11594, Item I and
additional 4th Amendment which was added to the 2560 code of laws.
Goal: To render the services related with Water, Sewerage and Stormwater of Ankara
Metropolitan Municipality, to take the necessary measures in order to reduce water
losses and pollution of the water sources; to establish plants and to take over the existing
treatment plants and operate them in the frame of this goal.
ASKI successfully completed major projects in scope of BAKAY Project in the last ten
years such as Wastewater Treatment Plant, Wastewater collectors (main collectors),
creek rehabilitation, drinking water renovation works and SCADA System for
prevention of water leakage. In addition ASKI's target for the next years is to improve
SCADA System, to investigate new water sources for demand of Ankara in the future, to
solve the infrastructural problems for the new residence areas and to rehabilitate Ankara
Creek which has vital importance for Ankara.
ASKI current currently employs 3757 personnel.
ASKI provides services for 98% of the inhabitant area of Ankara Metropolitan
Municipality. The existing resident area has been increased to 210.000 ha together with
the new services as required.
The targets have been realized beyond the scheduled.
A. I - FORMER SEWAGE SYSTEM BEFORE ASKI
ASKI has been rendering the services related with planning, investment and operation
works of sewerage system of Ankara City since early 1988.
The above mentioned services were rendered by Technical Section (Fen Isleri) of Ankara
Metropolitan Municipality, State Water Works (DSI), Iller Bank and District
Municipalities before ASKI was established.
The sewerage system of Ankara which was built in 1940-1950 could not be improved
and upgraded in parallel with the population increase. Master Plans and Feasibility
Studies were prepared by DSI in 1969 and by Iller Bank in 1979. Only a small portion of
the investments foreseen in scope of the Master Plans was realized. Therefore the
sewerage problem of Ankara continuously increased. When the Sewerage services was



Appendix B
Page 2 of 8
the services for sewerage implementation and operation, studies were expedited to
rehabilitate these creeks and channels with closed structures.
Main creeks (Chubuk Cayi, Hatip Cayi, Incesu Deresi, Dikmen Deresi, etc.) passing
through the municipal area were rehabilitated as partly open and closed by DSI.
However, in rainy season (even if medium rate) flood disasters occurred causing great
damage and loss of fife due to unavailability of the stormwater channels to convey the
rainfall to the main creeks.
ASKI has considered special importance for the construction of stormwater channels
since 1998. The need for construction stornwater channels together with sewage
channels occurred especially for creek beds and streets.
It was estimated that the existing channel served 85% of population in 1998.
The size of constructed channel was totally 1414 km as 899 km sewage and 515 km
stormwater channels before ASKI was established.
B - GREATER ANKARA SEWERAGE PROJECT (BAKAY)
- Wastewater / Stormwater Collection System
- Wastewater Treatmnent Plant
Financial Summary of Ankara Sewerage Project
Source of Fund                          Estimated Cost (Mill.)
ASKI's source                                            291,9
World Bank                               __173,9
KfW                                                      91,9
European Investment Bank
TOTAL                                                    556,8
B. 1 - Wastewater / Stormwater Collection System
The sewerage system of Ankara must be renovated due to the fact that an important part
of the system is obsolete. Especially in suburb areas the sewerage systems constructed
with the support of inhabitants are insufficient as capacity and quality are causing
clogging and damage problems as well as resulting in great operation costs.
In 1988 the water supply to municipal area was increased by 40% from Camlidere Dam
and therefore the amount of wastewater production also increased sewage system and



Appendix B
Page 3 of 8
environmental problems. In addition new housing areas need sewerage and stormwater
systems due to the population increase.
In 1989 a new feasibility study was expedited for sewage and stormwater collection
system in the scope of Greater Ankara Sewerage Project and the loan was supplied for
realization of lids project by World Rank. The loan agreement of 173 Million US$ was
signed and became effective after issued in the official paper. The portion of 66 Million
US$ of this amount was cancelled with the aim of easy refunding of ASKI and in order
to supply loan from European Investment Bank with a better condition as well as to
decrease the construction costs.
In 1995 a new loan in the amount of 58.8 Million US$ (45 Million ECU) was supplied
from European Investment Bank due to the easier terms and to improve the
implementation performance in the construction phase.
World Bank loan's time-frame is based on 17 years with refunding of the last 12 years of
the term. And European Investment Bank loan's time-frame is 20 years with refunding
of the last 16 years of term.
The projects designed were tendered with phased implementation. The contract
agreements of Ankara Sewerage Project were divided in less portions due to the number
of contractors qualified for this project; and the pre-qualification time was shortened as
well as the tender submission time was put into same period with pre-qualification. In
this case a) close-relation between contractors was prevented b) construction costs were
decreased by having decreased tenders and c) implementations and then operations were
commenced as soon as possible. Financial problems were easy resolved in the
construction sector since loan amount from World Bank was increased.
ASKI realised 2670,4 km of Sewerage & Stormwater channels above his target of
2162,1 km.
The above mentioned project was successfully completed and is currently in operation.
B.2 - Ankara Central Wastewater Treatment Plant
Ankara, presently has about 3.0 million inhabitants and approximately 6.0 million are
estimated for 2025. Ankara is the Capital of Turkey as well as a great important
administration centre and has various sized industries.
About 98% of the population is considered to be connected to the public sewerage
network in the future. A feasibility study was expedited to determine dimensions and
estimated cost in 1988 and 1989.
The Wastewater Treatment Plant is scheduled for improving environmental conditions,
especially to improve water quality of Sanyar and Gokcekaya Dams located beyond



Appendix B
Page 4 of 8
Sanyar catchment area with the aim of usage of drinking water, fishing, recreation and
farm irrigation.
Wastewater concept for Ankara is as follows:
The domestic industrial wastewater is conveyed via an interceptor channel by gravity to
Wastewater Treatment Plant located near Ankara Creek distanced 40 km from the city.
The treatment plant is to be constructed in two phases and is based on biological
treatment and has future extension for the target year of 2025 including nitrification and
phosphor elimination. The plant is designed for the treatinent capacity of 30 mg/i BOD
and 30 mg/l SS and these values are currently below the relevant values as specified in
Turkish Regulations.
The Contract Agreement of Ankara Central Wastewater Treatment Plant in the scope of
Greater Ankara Sewerage Project was signed by the parties on June 5t, 1991 and
construction works was commenced on August I't, 1992.
Construction and installation works were completed on 01.08.1997; the 6 months
commissioning term was completed on 31.01.1998 as specified in the contract
agreement.
B.3 - Consulting Services
B.3.1 - Sewage / Stormwater Collection System
Consulting Services for Ankara Sewerage Project and Sewage Collection as well as
Stormwater, Final Design and Construction Supervision was tendered by Ankara Water
and Sewerage Administration consistent with the Method of International Bidding on
27.11.1989 in the scope of World Bank Loan in accordance with the Loan- Agreement
dated August 16' 1990, and the agreement comprises two works as "Final Design" and
"Construction Supervision". The services were commenced as of September 26', 1990.
In the scope of Engineering and Consulting Services it was foreseen that the following
services to be rendered: design works for sewage interceptor channels, sewage collector,
stormwater network and collector and wastewater networks; Manhole Record Drawings
and Evaluation Studies Bar State of Channel; Geo-technical Surveys for the %in Lines,
Topographic Surveys, Technical Progress Reports in certain periods, Qualification and
Tender Evaluations and Computer Modeling.
In addition to the work scope stated in the agreement some correction was made in the
existing work program and an Amendment was approved with acceptance of the relevant
Bank considering the changes of project foresights stated in the feasibility study
expedited in 1989 and the sewerage works expedited with ASKI's own sources as of
1990.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 8
After amendments of the project scope, Application Drawings were prepared for 63.7
km Stormwater Collector, 664 km Sewage Network and 118.8 km stormwater network
lines and these design works were divided as 13 individual contracts parts (In the tender
period these contracts were divided in their respective scope).
In addition to the 13534 km design work prepared the following services in the scope of
the project have been completed for the target year of 2025 and 6.500.000 population:
Topographic Surveys, Evaluation works of Manhole Record and Channel Status, Geo-
technical Surveys, Periodic Progress Reports, Assistance to International Tender
Evaluations and Computer Modeling.
For the construction supervision: a) to explain the lines and points to the Contractors and
check them, b) determine the compliance of implementation works which were applied
as specified contract specification and to instruct the contractors for the deficiencies, c)
test and control the quality of the materials and equipment installed at the site, d) to
investigate unusual status which may be occurred during construction, e) to render final
inspection after termination of the construction contracts, f) to amend application
drawings when required and to prepare operation drawings, and g) to check and approve
the disbursements of the contractors.
ASKI started supervision of sewerage and stormwater works after completion of detailed
designs. Supervising comprises the control of 1) construction of collectors and networks
in detail, 2) construction of drainage channels, 3) constructions of new manholes of
existing sewerage system, new manholes and renovation of existing manholes.
The whole construction works were implemented with a high standard of workmanship
and under the control of ASKI and Consultant. The Consultant Contract related with
construction supervision was completed on September 25th 1998.
In addition ASKI employed local consultants during 17.07.1995 - 31.12.1998 as
Surveyor for the projects funded by foreign credit and as Engineer and Technician for
the projects funded by ASKI's sources.
B.3.2- Ankara Central Wastewater Treatment Plant
ASKI has been started, to operate the Wastewater Treatment Plant since 07.10.1993,
which was constructed under the supervision of a Consultant. The Consultant are still
currently employed for the plant.
B.3.3- Mapping
The digital map producing was realised with ASKI's own sources. 4228 nos of digital
maps with the scale of 1/1000 as produced to contain 156.000 ha for the IST phase are to
be used for the designs of town planning management, public works, landscaping, road,
electricity, water, sewerage and so on. The 2ND phase will contain 55000 ha according to
the new residence borders.



Appendix B
Page 6 of 8
B.4- Operation
B. 4. 1 - Wastewater / Stormwater Collection System
An operation and maintenance manual was prepared for the sewerage systems
constructed in the scope of BAKAY-project and submitted for the usage of ASKI The
works implemented are a high professional standard and velocities of the pipes are
sufficient for self-cleaning. The system only needs for periodical maintenance. It is
required to keep the manholes in function, to apply specifications for control of rats, to
clean the large pipelines with flash water of portable equipment and the small pipelines
with pressure water periodically, to check the main interceptor channels with a safe
rubber both connected to an overhead steel-wire between two manholes with 150 m
distance Stormwater system should be cleaned before rainy season and the grates must
be clean against clogging. A competent team with appropriate equipment is provided.
B.4.2- Ankara Central Wastewater Treatment Plant
The Central Wastewater Treatment Plant was commenced to operate as of August I'
1997. Wastewater conveyed to the plant is treated with biologic system. It was designed
for 1001000 people for the 1st phase. It is considered two more phases up to the year of
2025. The estimated population of Ankara is 6.5 Million for 2025. The Consortium's
obligation is to provide 30 mg/i BOD and 30 mg/l SS and the plant inlet flow was
419.883m3/day at the end of November compliance with the a.m. values.
The portion of approx. 70% electrical power consumed in the plant is produced by gas
generators. The sludge cake is currently tested for the usage on farm applications by
TIJBITAK and Ankara University Faculty of Agriculture.
The provisional taking over was certified on C01.02.1998 and the plant was operated by
BEL-KA (Operation Contractor) and the Consortium for I year of operation period.
The I year operation period of Consortium was completed on 01.02.1999. The plant is
currently operated by BEL-KA with ASKI's supervision. BEL-KA is an incorporated
municipal owned company with a capital 10.000.000.000 TL. The company agreed to
operate the Plant for 3 years. 170 personnel awe employed with three (3) shifts for plant
operation.
C-Wastewater Management Studies
Regulation for Wastewater Discharge to Sewerage Network of ASKI was issued in
Tasvir Newspaper on 27.01.1994.
The wastewater management studies was started with inventory studies in the summer
mrnonths of 1994.



Appendix B
Page 7 of 8
The investigations on industrial wastewater were applied on 479 industries between
1994 - 1998 comprising
107 Petrol Station
138 Car Wash
80 Metal, marble, concrete 64 good, glass, furniture
90 Official institute cleaning, oil change
269 industries of these provided their in-house treatment system and have discharge
certificates. 48 companies which less flow have accepted the relevant payment are
considered that they do not need in-house treatment.
In the city border all industries are periodically controlled on the basis of wastewater
sampling.
The Tatlar Wastewater Treatment Plant was commenced to operate as of August I"
1997. The sampling works are periodically applied on different points of Ankara Creek
(AO1Q, TMO Bridge, Eryaman, Sincan, Tatlar). It is monitored that a certain
improvement of the water quality after completion of the project implementation is
recorded.
In addition Sakarya River has been monitored since add 1995. The samples received
from tow different points before and after mixing Ankara Creek to Sakarya River) are
analysed each month. According to the obtained values there is no change in the quality
of Sakarya River after mixing the water from Ankara Creek and it has no negative effect
on Sakarya River.
D- Payments
ASKI finds difficulty in paying the World Bank Loans which is guaranteed and are not
similar to the other loans (KfW and Kuwait) especially as from 1995, the first year of
payment for principle amount. However, ASKI has solved this payment problem by
applying a new financial method that TC Treasury Department pays at tenm (principal
amount and interest) in case of ASKI, and ASKI repays this amount to Treasury with 6
equal installments. The World Bank deducts the interest as 1/4% if paid in time. ASKI
has paid its debts in time and had applied this deduction on each payment period. We
can stated with pleasure that ASKI has a good performance on payments. In addition we
pay the debts to Treasure in time.
The payments comprise 35.000.000 US$ as principle amount and 17.000.000 US$ as
interest, totally 52.000.000 US$.



Appendix B
Page 8 of 8
E- Conclusion
With regard to the Greater Ankara Sewerage Project (BAKAY) constructions of Sewage
and Stormwater Collectors, Sewage and Stormwater Network and Wastewater
Treatment Plant have been completed excluding additional works with the aim. of
forming a clean and healthy environment in the capital.
The water supplied for the city is used and discharged and conveyed by the collectors to
the Wastewater Treatment Plant for the aim of irrigation usage after treatment; creeks
and open channels located in the municipal area have been rehabilitated; flood disasters
causing great damage and loss of life have been decreased to a minimum level; water
accumulation on the streets has been prevented and inadequate sewerage system has
been renovated and arranged to the need of Ankara.
Pollution of Ankara Creek by conveying this pollution to Sakarya River have been
decreased and its environmental affects dangerous for the people health has been
decreased to a minimum level.
The targets have been realized beyond the scheduled one.
The costs of consulting related to project costs in spite of the contract prices were low
comparing with the contracts realized with ASKI own sources. However, the projects
realized with both Consultants and Financial Institutes are of a professionally high
standards and they provided minimum time losses in the project administration.
ASKI has gained important expertise and knowledge on completion of this magnitude
project related with infrastructural services, and these expertise and knowledge have
been transferred to the related institutes likewise ASKI.
We believe that we have establish dose and a very special cooperation with the
Personnel of World Bank. All departments of the World Bank, especially with regard to
Loan-Payment provided the necessary cooperation, information and portions of credit in
time during this term.
We are thankful that all authorities of World Bank and especially their representatives of
'rurkey have provided professional assistance and close cooperation for realization of the
project of such a magnitude.



Appendix C
KfItl(                                                           Pag& lof 2
TEL EFAX - TELEFAX - TELEFAX - TELEFAX
Telefax numbr 001 - 2a2 - 447 1386         omtlrIn cow:   Mr, lCoster
a"ou Mi.      KaCs
The Wortd Bank                              _,u          3476
ECSIN                                      am             iardn.klJosterak.de
Attn Mr. Semardo Gomez                     d:            January 5, 1999
Program Team Leader
Washington D.C. I U.SA .llof"*s   2
L I a / 2 -German Financial Cooperatlon with Turkey
Ankam Sewerage Project (World Bank Loan 3151-TU)
- Implementation Completon Report I Your lettr dated July 16, 1q98 -
Dear Sirs,
Thank you fr your a.m. letter  L.and the invitacn to contiibuts tt your ICR  r the Ankara
Sewerage Project by giving yot a statemeat an ourpxpesdence with the Sewage Treatment Plant
f3roject We have conducted owr final follow-up miscn in November 1698. We thank you again
far the opportwntty tdlascss the project wiAh your Mr. Niseanbaum and collegues frm your
Ankara Office which we had during that mIlton.
In our statement which yos fnd attached wrhave concentUated on the lessOns to be drawn from
the project experience as pVu suggested. however, we wish to menton thac since inital operation
of the sewage treatment plant is stfll continuing and the operation responsibility has not fully been
handed over from the contractor to ASKI lesaons drawn from the project expeience at this point
are still of a preliminary character.
We wish to thank you very much for the good collaboration which persistAd during the years of
project implementaton.
Yours incemly, 
KREDITANSTALT FOR WIElER.AU FBAU
degKloster
Encicsure (1 page)
\lI\DATA\L\L1A'LA1A.O3W1 661 9z41SERICiWBa8122sLOOC
KRTrA4SALT    P.iMWtQ*n*r4tMd0 5-4  Po,r.h 11 11 41  Tweftn: MM 744 31-4   ZWJJF.T. 1IDICEFP
FOR WIEDRUFUAU  N2 Flrwktr am Mdn  60046 fevk*urt wn Main  Nauf PM 74 31 2 44 IUn.mt hlwAJ*M



Appendix C
Page 2 of 2
EncLosure
Lessgns to be drawn from the oroleMerfence
T4akng into consideration that inifial *%iaton of the sewage treatent plant is still ongoing and
th operation responsibility has not i4j be trnsfrred from te contractor to ASK the following
lesons are still of a scmewhat preflminaty characten
Under the pravailing insttfutal frme coniditions for water supply and sewerage
administrtcns in Turlay the pehformance of ASKt could be substandally improved
through donor-initiated incentves and through supplementary technical assistance. The
covenants applied to the loans and the fact that they were closely harmonized between
the Worid Bank and KIW mpresented an important it not always welcome Incentive for
taking steps towards improvements cf the financial situation 4uch as tariff adjLstmnents.
This triggered a prcess of paying more attention to financial matters and lead to a
rethinking of previous positions so that e.g. the prndple of cost recovering tarffs and
regular adjustments to inmlatfcn is generally accepted nowadays, Cn ths other hand the
improvements in the field of financlal management as well as in the fields of project
implementation and O&M were supported through comprehensive adviscry and training
services to ASKI.
2.     While the institutInal frame conditions left considerable scopa for improvement of AS3I's
performance they also represented a limit to further improvements at a certain point In
the and, in accordance with the lega rmgulatons ASKs majcr antrepreneurial decisions
ars taken by political representaves who dominate ASKI's decision makWng badys. A
proper fnnandal management is undermined by the inapprcrfate system of municipal
finance in Turkey which encouraGes unscund flnancial practicas and a free-rider behavior
towards the central govemment The limits set by the institutional frame conditions pose
a certain risk for the sustainability of the improvements reached. While there is a general
understanding in Turcey that changes ot the frame conditions and in particular af the
municipal finance system are pending it is open when and to which degree they will be
implemented.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21862
TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '^'=.
T  U  R  K  E  Y                                                                                                 ,S>-t&*lz
ANKARA SEWERAGE PROJECT
I 'PWIsno   \i9o'  Karaparcek
~~~~~~~~~~~~~R     \
CIL),~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y.                              <1                          IE  
Sewage fro. Yenikent                                                                          /
Sand Sray
Ma I-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOADCLECTORS  ,.-
PLANEDS ANDSREASMEXSTIG                  SEWERAGE                   STAALEN APRXMTL 1:179,00
MUNICIPALITYPRJEC                     EXSTN ',                                       and1 TREAMEN  PLLAANT SIT               ,A
BOUNDARY~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OF ANAR                                                                            -      CYER,U    '  RBRPF RQt
MUNICIPALITY          TREATMENT PLANT SITE                                                                         I RAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.ioi
Dikm~~~~~~~~~~~~SRA
CukLirCYRU            AABREaIA
el~~~~~NOEBR18



