c-/2 z&/C,)/ -- lVo
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. *0451-HO  Type: (SAR)
DE ST. ANT/ X31898 / I7 123/ LA2HR                            ReportNo.  10451-H
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
MAY 18, 1992
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY A1D EQUIVALENT UNITS
US$1 = 5.4 Honduras Lempira (L)
SDR1.0   US$1.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha) - 10,000 m2
1 Metric Ton (mt) - 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer (km) = 1,000 m
1 Cubic Meter (m3) - 1,000 liters (1)
1 Liter (1) = 1,000 milliliters (ml)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APP           -    NGO Specialized in Water Supply (Agua para el
Pueblo)
BANMA         -    Municipal Bank
EEC           -    European Economic Community
ESF           -    Emergency Social Fund of Bolivia
FHIS          -    Honduran Social Investment Fund
FHIS-I        -    Social Investment Fund Project (Cr. 2212-HO)
FHIS-II       -    Second Social Investment Fund Project
GDP           -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP           -    Gross National Product
GOH           -    Government of Honduras
ICB           -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA           -    International Development Association
IDB           -    Interamerican Development Bank
LCB           -    Local Competitive Bidding
KfW           -    German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LSMS          -    Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIS           -    Management Information System
MOE           -    Ministry of Education
MOH           -    Ministry of Health
NGO           -    Nongovernmental Organization
NLO           -    NGO Liaison Office
PRAF          -    Family Assistance Program
SANAA         -    National Water and Sewerage Service Company
SECOPT        -    Ministry of Communications and Public Works
SIF           -    Social Investment Fund of Bolivia
SOE           -    Statement of Expenditure
UN            -    United Nations
UNDP          -    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF        -    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         -    United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i-
I.  INTRODUCTION              . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               . .
II. THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION   . . . . . . .  .
A.  The Economic Reform Program   ... .      .  .  .  .  .    .. .      1
B.  Poverty in Honduras .               .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
C.  Government Strategy               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
D. Bank and IDA Support . ...    5
E.  IDA Lending Strategy for the Social Sector    . ...
F.  Rationale for IDA Involvement   .             . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
III. EXPERIENCE WITH THE FIRST SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT .  .  . . . .   7
A.  Lessons Learned from Implementation of the Project  . . . . . .     7
Design Lessons   . . . . .    . . . . .            .  .  .    7
Implementation Lessons   ... .    ..... .      .  .  .  .    .  8
B.  Improvements Agreed at the Mid-Term Review         .  .  .  .  .    9
C.  Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . .  11
D.  Institutional Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
E.  Other Components of the FHIS-I Project  . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
IV.  THE SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND ...........   ... ......    13
A.  Objectives and Approach   . . . . ......  .........    13
B.  Institutional and Managerial Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
C.  Subproject Programming and Implementation   . . . . . . . . . .  16
D.  Targeting of Funds  . . . .....            ..........  .    18
E. Coordination with Other Government Agencies   . . . . . . . . .  20
F.  Subproject Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
G. Resource Mobilization and Needs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
This report is based on the findings of a PHIS-I mid-term review and FHIS-II
appraisal mission, wnich visited Honduras in Novemder i991.  Tre miaeion was
composed of Messrs./Mmes. J.J. de Saint Antoine, Task Manager, A.M. Sant'Anna,
L. Cord (LA2HR), M. Grosh (LATHR), C. Hurtado, B. Lopez, and M. Romero
(Consultants). Mr. C. Bertao (LEGLA) participated in a post-appraisal mission
in March 1992. Mr. Darren Dorkin contributed to the report at headquarters.
Messrs. Rainer B. Steckhan (LA2DR) and Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR) are the Department
Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  THE  PROJECT    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  23
A.    Objective  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
B.    Description  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .   . .  .  23
C.  Implementation  .  .  . .  .  .    . . . . .    . . . . . . .  23
D.  Costs and Financing Plan  . . ..   . . . . .  .  .  .  . .    . ..   24
E. Procurement   . . . .    .. . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . ..    25
F.  Supervision and Reporting   . .     * . . . . .  .  .  .  . ... ..   27
G.  Diisbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  . .  . .  .  28
H.  Documentation of Expenditures   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  28
I.  Accounts and Audits   . . . . . .  . .. . ..  . .       .  .  28
J.  Mid-Term Review   . . . . . . . .*. .  .  . .*. . *  . . . . . .*.    29
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . o. . . . . .            . . . .  30
A.  Banefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
B.      Risks  ............................                        31
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
A.  Agreements Reached  . . . . . . .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
B. Recommendation  .   ....... . . .    .  ....... . . . . .  .   33
Annexes
1.   Socioeconomic Indicators for Honduras
2.   Agreements Reached at Mid-Term Review of FHIS-I
3.   Project Costs
4.   Financing Plan
5.   Methods of Procurement
6.   Disbursement Schedule
7.   Terms of Reference for Mid-Term Review of FHIS-II
8.   NGO Liaison Office
9.   Social Infrastructure Projects Financed by FHIS
10.  Economic Infrastructure Projects Financed by FHIS
11.  Social Services Projects
12.  Results of Promotion Efforts in the 80 Poorest Municipalities
13.  Status of Water Committees in Charge of Water and Sanitation Projects
14.  Informal Sector Projects Financed by FHIS
15.  Documents Included in the Project File



HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Honduras
Executing Agencies:   Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS) and
Nongovernmental Organization (NGO) Liaison Office (NLO)
Beneficiaries:         Target groups in rural and urban poverty areas through
the FHIS, municipal4ties, NGOs and other entities
Amount:                SDR7.445 million (US$10.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity including 10
years of grace
Proiect Obiectives:   Building on the achievements of FHIS-I, the Project
and Descrintion       would help the Government sustain its poverty
alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion during
the period of economic adjustment until line ministries
strengthen their institutional capacities and complete
policy reform programs. The credit would finance a
range of small-scale subprojects (91% of the total
project cost of US$67.5 million) sponsored by
municipalities, community organizations, and NGOs, in
four broad categories: (i) social infrastructure (54%
of total subproject cost); (ii) economic infrastructure
(13%); (iii) social services (22%); and (iv) credit to
small informal sector entrepreneurs (11%). Wherever
feasible, the subprojects would be carried out by small
private contractors using labor-intensive methods. The
credit would also provide institutional support through
technical assistance to the NLO, so that NGOs improve
their ability to plan, prepare, and implement
subprojects for poorer communities (0.3%). The credit
would not finance the operating costs of the executing
agencies (9% of total costs).
Benefits:              By transferring resources to poor urban and rural
communities in a decentralized manner with the
participation of municipalities, NGOs, and private
contractors, FHIS would help to: (i) create employment
and income for the poor; (ii) provide better sanitation,
health and education facilities, erosion control, and
lower-cost transport; (iii) improve productivity of the
population; and (iv) enhance efficiency of public
delivery of social services.
Risks:                 There is a risk that the Government may attempt to
respond to the social cost of adjustments with excessive



ii
speed, and project funds might be poorly used and
diverted to uses nnt envioaged in the project.
Experience with FHIS-I has demonstrated that this risk
is small. Specifically, the risk would be mitigated as
a result of FHIS's commendable management, its capable
and motivated staff, its good information system,
quarterly audits, and close superrvision.
Estimated Costs:                               Local      Foreian      Total
------ US$ million ------
I.    FHIS
A.    Subprojects                        46.00       15.22        61.22
B.   Operating Costs                     4.37         1.71         6.08
Subtotal FHIS                           5C.3;        16.93        67.30
II.   Institutional Assistance to
NGO Liaison Office                       0.15         0.05         0.20
TOTAL COST!                             50.52        16.98        67.50
Financina Plan:                                Local      Foreien       Total
------ US$ million ------
Government of Honduras                   6.7          0.0          6.7
Beneficiaries                            3-1          0.0          3.1
IDA                                      8.2          2.0         10.2
IDB                                     20.5         11.0         31.5
KfW                                       4.0         2.0          6.0
EEC                                      3.2          0.8          4.0
USAID                                    2.0          0.7          2.7
World Food Prog.am                        1.6         0.0          1.6
Government of Netherlards                0.6          0.4          1.0
UNDP                                     0.2          0.0          0.2
Government of Spain                      0.2          1.1          0.3
Government of France                     0.1          0.0          0.1
UNICEF                                   0.1          0.0          0.1
TOTAL                                   50.5         17.0         67.5
Retroactive Financing:  Up to US$1.0 million would be permitted for eligible
expenditures incurred since April 1, 1992.
Estimated IDA Disbursemente:
IDA Fiscal Year                         1993         1994
--US$ million--
Annual                             5.52          4.7
Cumulative                         5.5          10.2
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Net of taxes and duties.
a.     Includes the initial deposit of US$1.0 million to the Special
Account and US$1.0 million of retroactive financing.



HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       This report presents a second Social Investment Fund project (FHIS-
II), for which an IDA credit of SDR7.445 million (US$10.2 million equivalent)
to the Government of Honduras, is proposed. Total project cost is estimated
at US$67.5 million equivalent. The proposed project grew out of the November
1991 mid-term review of the first Social Investment Fund project (Cr. 2212-HO)
(FHIS-I) when it became clear that project implementation was proceeding much
more rapidly than anticipated at appraisal and that funds would be fully                         '-
committed by mid-1992 (the findings of the mid-term review mission are
presented in Chapter III).  The Government therefore requested additional IDA
financing for a second phase of FHIS activities through March 1994, which
would build on the achievements of FHIS-I, and would help the Government allay
the social cost of adjustment, sustain its poverty alleviation efforts, and
maintain social cohesion during the adjustment period, until the line
ministries strengthen their institutional capacities and complete their policy
reform programs.
1.2       This report discusses the Government's program to restructure the
ecolomy and alleviate poverty, reviews the implementation experience of the
FRIS-I project, describes the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FEIS), proposes
IDA's involvement in a follow-up FHIS-II project, and provides the parameters
for project implementation.
TI. THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION
A.        The Economic Reform Program
2.1       Since March 1990, the Honduran Government has carried out a
comprehensive economic stabilization and adjustment program designed to
correct distortions resulting from past macroeconomic mismanagement and to lay
the foundation for sustained economic growth over the medium term. The
stabilization program has focussed on increasing tax revenues, adjusting the
exchange rate to reflect market trends, reducing public expenditures,
.ncreasing tariffs for major public enterprises, and reducing Central Bank
'inancing of the fiscal deficit. The structural adjustment program has rested
on four pillars: (i) a trade/tariff refora promoting the product'On of
exportable and efficient import-substitution goods; (ii) a gradual
liberalization of financial sector policies and regulations; (iii)
administrative decontrol of agricultural pricing and marketing (including
elimination of the public monopoly on the basic grains trade); and (iv) public
sector reforms in the areas of tax structure and administration, investment
programming, and public enterprise restructuring.  At the sectora; level, the
Government expanded the reform program in late 1991 to the energy sector, with



2
the objective of establishing a sound framework for energy policy formulation
and regulatory functions, enhancing the efficiency and financial viability of
the electricity subsector, and promoting greater competition ir the petroleum
(oil and gas) subsector through deregulation of pricing, distribution, and
exploration activities.
2.2       Good mseroeconomic performance during 1991 suggests that the
economy is reco :-ing from the 1990 recession and attests to the Government's
satisfactory implementation of the economic stabilization and adjustment
programs described above. Preliminary figures show a 2.2% growth in GDP
(agricultural oitput grew by 3.42) with strong increases in Iroduction of
nontraditional agricultural commodities for the export markce  and maquila
activities in the free trade zones. (While encouraging, this GDP growth rate
is still below the population growth rate of about 3% per year.) The fiscal
deficit was contained at about 3.7Z of GDP (down trom 8.4% in 1990), and
inflation declined from a.1-t 11% during the fourth quarter of 1990 to 2%
during the fourth quarter of 1991. Private and public investment have
increased by 11.5% and 30.3%, respectively.
2.3       Implementation of the stabilization and adjustment program has had
an uneven impact on different sectors of the economy and on rural and urban
amilies. Liberalization of the exchange rate and decontrol of agricultural
rices have increased irnome earning opportunities in agricultural and export-
.ented activities (as well as in efficient import-substituting industries).
*nsequently, real incomes appear to be increasing for participants involved
in'these sub-sectors of the economy. These same factors, however, have
increaset harci '.ips for urban dwellers and net consumers of food in rural
areas, ho facf higher prices for basic foods and other consumer commodities.
ContracAion nf amployment in the central government and publicly-owned
enterprises 1ns largely affected urban workers, as has the increase in tariffs
for public u llities (water, sanitation, electricity, telephone), since these
services are utot widely available in rural areas. While severance payments
have helped cushion the impact of layoffs and many affected workers have found
employment in the private formal and informal sectors of the economy, the high
levels of open unemployment and underemployment in Honduras have meant that
families have often faced reductions in disposable income.
2.4       The combined impact of these factors on the real income of the
poorest families has raised serious concerns that health and nutrition
indicators may decline in the short-term, particularly among pregnant and
lactating mothers and children under five.  There is also concern that the
welfare of children from poor families may deteriorate in other ways, as
pressure increases for parents to withdraw their children from school to put
them to work and for mothers to enter the workforce (even though they may be
unable to secure proper care and supervision for the children during their
work absences, due to the limited nature of formal and informal childcara
programs). The seriousness of such potential developments, when viewed
against the background of Honduras's underlying chronic poverty, spurred the
Government to establish two innovative safety net programs in 1990: first,
the PHIS, which finances labor-intensive social and economic infrastructure,
social services, and informal sector subprojects; and second, the Family
Assistance Program (PRAP), which provides nutritional assistance via food



3
coupons for the most vulnerable groups of the population. The dimensionc of
poverty in Honduras are explored in greater detail in the following section.
B.        Poverty in Honduras
2.5       Honduras, with 4.4 million people (60% of whom live in rural
areas), is one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere. Its 1990
GNP per capita of US$590 is higher only than that of Haiti, Guyana, and
Nicaragua. Although social indicators have improved over the last 20 years,
they are still very low. Extreme poverty affects over 50% of the population
nationally and nearly 80% of the rural population. The poverty problem is
aggravated by the rapid population growth of almost 3% per year, arising from
high fertility rates (5.6 children per woman of childbearing age on a national
scale, and 6.9 in rural areas), low levels of contraceptive use (63% in the
cities, 30% in rural areas), and low birth spacing, with 30% of births taking
place in an interval of less than 24 months.
2.6       Health and nutrition indicators reflect the acute pro'blGms facing
the Honduran poor. lack of sanitation, inadequate diets, and deficient
cov-erage of the primary health care system (which currently reaches only 60%
of its target population). Infant mortality is over 65 per 1,000 live births,
due largely to diarrhea and acute respiratory infections, and 35% of the
children are born underweight. In 1990, maternal mortality was 221 per
100,000 live births nationally, although this rate is much higher in rural
areas poorly served by the health care system (averaging 624 per 100,000 in
the three worst affected departments). Nutritional deficiencies are a
contributlng factor in about 60Z of infant deaths, and moderate and severe
undernutrition affects 37% of the children younger than 5 years of age. The
undernutrition rate for rural areas is 42% and over 55% in some of the poorest
areas. Undernutrition is especially prevalent among pregnant and nursing
women, and over half the women attendin; health centers suffer from Uild or
moderate anaemia and vitamin A deficiency. The lack of potable water and
sanitation facilities is acute. Over 44- -f households at the national level
have no appropriate excreta disposal, and 34% of the population is without
home water connections. These national averages mask tremendous regional
disparities, as the rural population's access to these facilities is
considerably less.
2.7       The status of education in Honduras is also critical.  Although
school enrollment indicators show good access to public schools, the country
has a 32% illiteracy rate, and on average the population attains only 3.5
years of schooling. Repetition and dropout rates are high, with only 46% of
those who enter first grade likely to reach sixth grade, and much worse (23Z
in rural areas. Part of the reason for these low completion rates
(particularly in rural areas) is that over 36% of the primary schools offer
less than six grades. Repetition in primary school is over 54Z and 21% in the
first and second grades. The dropout rates are over 39% in first and over 19%
in second grade, reflecting a legacy of poor management and inappropriate
resource allocation in the education sector, which has resulted in low
internal efficiency of the education system in general, and of the primary
level in particular. The primary education system, in particular, suffers



4
from a severe shortage of classrooms, deterioration of existing facilities,
and a lack. of textbooks, desko, and teaching materials.
C.        Government Strategy
2.8       The Government's fundamental goals for porerty alleviation at1  to
improve child survival, develop the human capabilities of the population, and
erhance income earning opportunities for the lowest income groups. To achieve
these objectives, the Government is implementing a two-pronged strategy in the
social sectors. In the short term, priority is being given to the execution
of the sdfety net programs managed by the FHIS and the PRAF, which are
targeted to the most vulnerable members of society and are intended to prevent
a deterioration in the already precarious living standards of the poorest
groups during the adjustment period. These programs are viewed as temporary
in nature and as providing a transitional instrument for responding rapidly to
a critical poverty situat-.on, until the line ministries have Lean strengthened
and project activities ma. be reintegrated into normal ministry operetions.
More generally, to protect social sector programs from the full impact of the
austerity measures underway, it is the Government's iii.._erion to at least
maintain the share of social expenditures in the budget roughly constant in
real terms, at one-third of public spending and about llZ of GDP, during the
remainder of this Administration ending in December 1993.
2.9       FHIS assistance includes rehabilitation of schools and health
centers, construction of latrines and wells, provision of teaching materials
and health supplies, training for social personnel, and credit for informal
sector activities. The PHIS has worked closely with the Ministries of Health
(MOR) and Education (MOE) and with local communities to ensure that these
entities would provide staff and finance operating expenses and maintenance on
a recurrent basis for social infrastructure rehabilitated ox constructed with
PHIS financing. Over the next two to three years, the Government also plans
to expand the food coupon programs, managed by the FRAY in collaboration with
the MOB and MOE, to the poorest areaa of Uonduras. To optimize the
nutritional impact of the food coupon program among the target beneficiary
population (poor, pregnant and lactating women, poor primary school attenders,
and poor children under five), program expansion would include strengthening
the operations of primary health centers and primary schools and improving
rural water supply and sanitation. Lastly, the Government has created a NGO
Li.ison Office (NLO) to facilitate NGO activities in Honduras and to
strengthen the partnership between the public sector and NGOs in addressing
poverty problems.
2.10      The Government recognizes that these safety net programs, while
crucial in the short-term, are not adequate to resolve Honduras's structu:al
poverty. Consequently, in parallel with the initiatives outlined above, tie
Government's strategy for the medium term is to develop and implement a social
sector reform program that would: (i) improve policy formulation, sector
management, and program coordination in the social sectors; (ii) increase the
efficiency and equity of social sector programs by shifting resources to
primary health care, basic education, and water supply and sanitation
(particularly in rural areas); and (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity
of social sector line ministries. Nutritional assistance policies and



5
programs would also be reviewed to ensure that the most vulrterable groups
benefit, efforts and resources are not duplicated, and that programs are as
cost-effective and efficient as possible. Work on developing such a broad
sector reform program is currently underway with assistance from the Japanese
Technical Assistance Grant Facility, and implementation could begin in 1993.
As a result of implementing institutional strengthening and sector reform
measures, the Government expects to be able to integrate, as much as possible,
the experience and activities of the PHIS and the PRAP, the life spans of
whici are limited, into mainstream ministry programs.
D.        Bank and IDA Support
2.11      The Bank and IDA have supported the Government's efforts to
restructure and reactivate t'he economy through a combinat.' - of technical
advice and financial assistance.  Following the cleara-        arrears to the
Bank Group in late June 1990, a Second Structural Adjustasen Loan (SAL II) of
US$90 million was approved in September 1990, followed by a Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) of SDR14.3 million in January 1991, and an Energy
Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) of SDR37.95 million in October 1991. As a
result of Honduras's classification as an IDA-only country in late 1991, it
became eligible for the IDA Reflow program for the first time in FY92, and a
supplemental credit of SDR23.8 million, attached to the ESAC, was approved in
November 1991. To date, the first two tranches of SAL II (totaling US$65
million), the SAC (SDR14.3 million), the first tranche of the ESAC and the
supplemental IDA Reflow credit (SDR38.8 million) have been disbursed. Support
for a reform p-ogram in the agricultural sector is at an advanced stage of
discussion with the authorities.
2.12      IDA has also been actively involved in supporting the Government's
poverty alleviation efforts. In February 1991, a Social Investment Fund
credit (Cr. 2212-HO) of SDR14.3 million was approved to finance FHIS and other
priority social sector project activities (food coupon pilot, Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS), sector planning). In April 1991, the Government
requested IDA assistance to: (i) expand the PRAE food coupon program,
strengthen primary health center services, and provide rural sanitation
facilities in targeted areas; and (ii) develop a sccial sector reform program
to increase the efficiency and equity of social services, with particular
attention to improving the quality and sustainability of primary health,
primary education, and nutritiLral assistance programs. Intensive discussions
and prepar?mion work have followed this request over the past year, and an
appraisae *:ission for a proposed Nutrition and Health project is tentatively
scheduled for June 1992 Preparation of a possible social sector reform
operation is also underway, and appraisal could take placL in FY93. IDA
sectoral lending strategy is to provide technical advice and financial support
for the Government's short-term safety net programs as well as for its efforts
to introduce sectoral policy and institutional reforms over the medium term.
E.        IDA Lending Strategy for the Social Sector
2.13      The IDA sectoral lending strategy for poverty alleviation and human
resource development is to support the implementation of safety net programs
in the short term, while strengthening the institutional capacity of the line



6
ministries and restructuring social programs to improve their efficiency and
equity impact over the medium term. The ccre poverty program to achieve these
objectives over the next two yeurs consists of the proposed Second Social
Investment Fund project, the proposed Nutrition and Health project, and a
possible social sector reform operation. A second generation of poverty
reduction and human resource development projects, building on this core
program and a forthcoming Country Poverty Assessment, would be proposed for
the post-1994 periodX This next generation of projects is likely to include
sector investment operations in the healt), education, and water supply
sectors, emphasizing program development and implementation capacity for
services required to improve Honduras's low social indicators.
2.14      IDA support for FHIS-I and II and for the propoied Nutrition and
Health project would clearly contribute to the short-term strategic objective
of establish.Lng an effective safety net for the very poor, particularly during
the adjustment period. But both of these proposed projects would also
contribute tn the medium-term objective of strengthening line ministry
capacity and reorienting social program priorities. In the case of the FHIS,
project actlvities involve not only the rehabilitation and construction of
social infrastructure (schools, health centers, latrines, etc.) in poor rural
and urban a£eas, but also the provision of school teaching materials, health
center supplies, and training of nurses, teachers, and other social sector
personnel. Another important legacy of the PHIS could be the transmission to
social ministries of methods of operations and procedures to improve
efficiency and equity of service delivery. In the case of the proposed
Nutrition and Health project, a primary objective is to strengthen he._lIth
center operations, family planning services, and rural sanitation, working
through the line ministry and its normal programs. In essence, the expansion
of primary health, basic education, targeted nutrition interventions, and
rural sanitation resulting from these "short-term" safety net projects, is
contributing to a de facto shift in social sector expenditures toward the poor
over the medium term.
2.15      The possible social sector reform operation would consolidate this
progress, and would contribute to significant efficiency gains in the sector
by redeploying staff resources and instilling more discipline in the
expenditure programming process. Follow-up investment operations in
subsequent years would ensure that institutional development goals would be
achieved over the longer term.
F.        Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.16      The proposed FHIS-T_ project would complement activities to be
implemented under the proposea Nutrition and Health project, and would
contribute to the institutional strengthening of the line ministries by
transferring to ministries, to the extent possible, methods of operations and
procedures that would improve their project implementation capacities. IDA
support for this second phase is considered critical to ensure that: (i)
improvements agreed at the mid-term review are fully internalized and
implemented during the remainder of PHIS's operating existcnce and transferred
to line ministries, as appropriate; and (ii) sufficient concessionary funds



7
are mobilized from the international donor community to finance the proposed
project.
III. EXPERIENCE WITH THE FIRST SOCIAL INVESTHENT FUND PROJECT
3.1       There are four components in the FHIS-I project.  The main one is
the financing of FHIS subprojects, which comprise more than 95% of total
project cost. There are also three other components: (i) a pilot targeted
food coupon program implemented by the Family Assistance Program (PRAF); (ii)
technical assistance to help design a program to improve the efficiency and
equity of the servtces of the MOH and HOE; and (iii) implementation of a
system of monitoring and evaluation of the Government's social policy
interventions through the use of a LSMS, coordinated by the Ministry of
Planning.
3.2       The findings of the mid-term review confirm that project outcomes
have met the intended objectives during the first phase of project
implementation. Lessons from project implementation and the recommendation of
the mid-term review have been fully implemented into the design of the
proposed project. The following sections draw the lessons l.earned from the
operation, and describe the improvements agreed at the mid-term review, the
project benefits and the institutional impact.
A.        Lessons Learned from Implementation of the Prolect
Design Lessons
3.3       The design of FHIS as a semi-autonomous organization with a
broadly-based Board haa limitad political infiuence on its management, and
special provisions have allowed the FHIS to recruit high-quality staff at
competitive salaries and follow simplified procurement procedures. As a
result, the FHIS is managed effi..-ently with clear procedures, quality
control, accountability and an implementation strategy based on
decentralization and privatization (paras. 4.4-4.11).
3.4       The use of a standardized menu of subprojects (para. 4.12) has
resulted in efficient subproject implementation by: (i) limiting the range of
specialists to be recruited by FHIS; (ii) providing standard parameters and
specifications used by sponsors in subproject preparation; and (iii)
facilitating appraisal and supervision of subprojects by FHIS staff.
3.5       EHIS has targeted its subDroiects based on a poverty map using
population and poverty criteria. While more resources (60% of FHIS) went to
poorer communities, the middle class communities also received a sizeable
share of the Fund, although the poorer population living in these communities
benefitted more. FHIS subprojects throughout all 290 municipalities of the
country have reached places where there had previously been hardly any
Government effort= Under FHIS-II, the targeting would be further improved,
and a larger proportion of funds would reach poorer communities by limiting
allocation to relatively richer communities (paras. 4.16-4.20).



8
3.6       FHIS informal sector credit, totaling US$2.1 million or 7Z of FHIS
total subproject approvals, has succeeded in making credit available to urban
and rural small and micro-entrepreneurs who do not have access to commercial
banks. This program has worked well because: (i) FHIS delegates lending to
NGOs which are specialized in credit to the informal sector; (ii) market rates
are charged to final beneficiaries; (iii) NGOs assume the full credit risk
vis-a-vis FHIS, which provides NGOs with a strong incentive to present quality
projects and collect subloans; (iv) FHIS requires significant cost sharing
(about 201); and (v) solidarity group lending (moral guarantees) ensures loan
recovery without reliance on physical or fiduciary guarantees. These positive
features, especially the market rates charged to final beneficiaries, would
continue under FHIS-II (para. 4.12 (d)).
3.7       It was a good strateav for the Government to get FHIS off the
ground very early in the new administration. The early start, with Government
funds, was instrumental in demonstrating to potential donors the nature of the
program and the Government's commitment thereto, which helped mobilize
external resources. Once donors were on board, it was easy to improve the
program with their advice and technical assistance. The technical assistance
provided by UNDP for establishing and strengthening FHIS at the inception of
the program has been an instrumental element of this successful start (para.
3.12).
Implementation Lessons
3.8       FHIS succeeded in disbursing funds rapidly while sustaining high
subproiect aualitv (para. 4.13). Thie is the result of a good quality staff,
a well-designed management information system, efficient appraisal mechanisms,
simplified special procurement procedures, and good quality control.
3.9       The insistence of external donors on the need for full
transparencv, coupled with an equal desire of the FHIS Board and management
team for full accountability, has ensured proper use of funds and prevented
political interference in FHIS operations. The system of quarterly
operational audits (para. 5.22) is an innovation for a social fund. The
transparency of operations has been an essential element in attracting
external resources and projecting an excellent public image in Honduras. This
practice would continue under FHIS-Il.
3.10      Experience has shown that a social fund can be operated in good
collaboration with social ministries (para. 4.21). The FHIS proved to be a
good complement to line ministries' programs due to: (i) a genuine desire on
the part of FHIS's Executive Director to collaborate with line ministries;
(ii) good coordination mechanicms; and (iii) the prestige of FHIS and its
support at the highest level of the Government, which was an incentive for
other Government agencies to collaborate with FHIS.
3.11      Simplified procurement Procedures established by the FHIS law have
helped expedite subproject disbursements. Given the small size and geographic
spread of subprojects, special procurement procedures were adopted to
facilitate local shopping and direct contracting in cases where subprojects
were undertaken in isolated communities where not more than one contractor was



9
xpected to be present. FHIS has used private contractors and NGOs well as
nstruments for project preparation and implementation. This procedure would
e used more extensively under FHIS-II (para. 5.8).
.12      The technical assistance provided early on by UNDP has been
nstrumental in setting up FHIS as an efficient operation. UNDP has provided
ontinuous technical assistance since the creation of the FHIS. It has helped
elect FHIS staff, prepare operational manuals, and ensure the proper start-up
of the project. Ir. addition to helping project design and preparation of the
FHIS organic law, UNDP has supported FHIS through financing: (i) salaries of
he top executives; (ii) logistical equipment (vehicles, computers,
elephones, faxes, radios, photocopying equipment, furniture, etc.); (iii) a
ull-time top-quality principal adviser whose advice has been well appreciated
y both the Hondurans and the donor community; and (iv) short-term consultants
(which has, for example, allowed FHIS to adapt the Bolivia ESF data-processing
technology). The present UNDP contract, recently negotiated, covers the
period up to September 1993, and is satisfactory. It will be extended -o
cover the entire life of FHIS, up to March 1994, and will provide an
additional US$200,000. Two important features of this technical assistance
contract are: (i) specialized assistance to help improve the social services
program; and (ii) technical assistance to help improve project preparation by
poorer municipalities. As a condition for effectiveness, a technical
assistance contract between FHIS and UNDP. satisfactory to IDA. would have
been signed (para. 7.3 (a)).
ImDrovements Agreed at the Mid-Term Review
3.13      Overall, the mid-term review shows that FHIS has been performing
well and has been an effective instrument to alleviate the social costs of
adjustment. The major weakness was in supervision as a result of an excessive
number of projects per supervising staff. In December 1991, each FHIS
supervisor was responsible for 95 subprojects, i.e., more than twice the
recommended number of 40, which would allow visits to each subproject every
two weeks. Subprojects are visited before disbursements are made, but, given
the limited number of staff, visits may be delayed by more than a month as
subprojects are spread throughout the country's 290 municipalities, some in
remote areas. The occasional understaffing of the supervision department may,
at times, have caused a drop in project quality, as disbursements were made
without adequate supervision of subprojects. Supervision efficiency would be
improved by increasing FHIS supervision staff or subcontracting part of
supervision to other parties (paras. 3.18 (a), 3.19).
.14      FHIS has lacked financial analysis capacity.  Most FHIS finance
lepartment staff primarily have accounting backgrounds. This has limited FHIS
)otential to analyze its future options, since financial projections have not
)een readily available to explore various scenarios under different
lisbursement and funding assumptions (paras. 3.18 (b), 4.11).
3.15      The FHIS social services program has been unbalanced, with an
excessive emphasis on one item of the menu: the school desks program, which
received more promotion than other kinds of subprojects in health, nutrition,
and education. Initially, this emphasis on one item was an efficient



10
strategy, sirnce it was a simple and efficient approach to develop a solid
social services department, to build credibility with NGOs, and to demonstrate
an impact at the national level. However, other important programs in the
social services menu have been neglected, and consequently the amount
committed for social service subprojects has been lower than appraisal targets
(para. 4.15). Although the poorer communities require more social services,
in fact, they have had fewer social service subprojects. This trend has
contributed to the result that poorer municipalities have actually received
less funds than those planned at appraisal. FHIS would agree to start
promoting a more diversified social service program (para. 3.19).
3.16      FHIS has made concerted efforts to ensure sustainability of
subprojects, but further efforts will be required in the future, especially
for water and sewerage subprojects where performance of local water committees
will have to be monitored more closely. This is especially important also for
the basic sanitation program, the development of which is expected to remain
significant under FHIS-Il (para. 4.23).
3.17      Finally, the management information system (MIS) operates well
except for supervision, but there is a need to correct insufficient
integration between separate programs (para. 4.11).
3.18      At the mid-term review, agreement was reached on a set of actions
to improve rhe FHIS operations (Annex 2). So far, FHIS has:
(a)    expanded its supervision and monitoring capacity by starting
to contract additional staff and/or subcontracting
supervision tasks with accredited private contractors and
NGOs (Annex 2, page 1);
(b)    strengthened its financial analysis capacitv through:  (i)
the design of a financial planning methodology; (ii) the
recruitment of a financial analyst; and (iii) the training of
FHIS financial department staff (Annex 2, pages 2 and 3);
(c)    made special efforts to channel additional resources to the
poorest municipalities by increasing promotion efforts and
technical assistance for the poorer communities (para. 4.20);
(d)    integrated its management information systems into a single
continuous system, including financial projections (para.
Annex 2, page 2); and
(e)    signed a contract with Agua para el Pueblo (APP), a well-
known NGO specialized in the water sector, that is providing
technical assistance to ensure proper running of local water
committees (para. 4.23).
3.19      Two important findings of the mid-term review results, however,
have not yet been addressed. First, the promotion of a more diversified
social services Proaram, with special emphasis on one or two additional types
of subprojects that are easily replicable and can be financed on a large



11
scale.  During negotiations. tha Borrower provided evidence that FHIS has:
(i) preared and scarted to promote a more diversified social services
Program, satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.1 (a)); and (ii) revised the social
services Operational Manual (para. 7.1 (b)). The revisions, however, have not
yet been approved by FHIS Board. Therefore. amendment of the Operational
Manual and its apnroval by the FHIS Board. satisfactory to IDA. would be a
condition for effectiveness (para. 7.3 (b)). Second, FHIS still needs to
recruit additional supervision staff (Annex 2). During negotiations, the
Borrower provided evidence that FHIS has confirmed that an additional number
of supervision staff. satisfactory to IDA. will be contracted by August 31.
1992 (para. 7.1 (c)).
C.        Proiect Benefits
3.20      During 1990 and 1991, FHIS subprojects generated an estimated
30,00' temporary and permanent jobs, representing 8,700 person-years at an
average cost per employee-year of US$262, which is in line with other social
funds in Latin America. Most of FHIS's subprojects have been implemented by
small and medium-size contractors with a positive impact in developing this
sector of the economy. The project also has had significant benefits for
those who use social and economic infrastructure services, and credit
supported through FHIS subprojects. An estimated 500,000 poor Hondurans have
directly benefited from FHIS subprojects to improve schools, sewerage, roads,
and other types of services during 1990 and 1991.
3.21      FHIS has had a significant development impact by acting quickly and
providing infrastructure of good quality. FHIS provided financing for the
construction or refurbishing of 1,733 primary school classrooms, 67 health
posts (i.e., about 102 of total primary health network), the installation of
263 km of water system tubing, water tanks with 170,000 m3 capacity, 130 km of
sewage tubing, construction of about 30,000 latrines, and repair of 788 km of
rural roads. A 1991 Pan American Health Organization study of infant
mortality in Honduras identified intestinal infections as the most important
cause. FHIS efforts in water and sewerage subprojects will have a major long-
term impact on health, especially on infant and child mortality. They have
also helped contain the propagation of the cholera epidemic and lower
dramatically the incidence of diarrhea, especially in the southern departments
and in the densely populated poor areas in the outskirts of major cities.
Because of its special procedures, higher quality of operations, promotion,
technical assistance, and beneficiaries' involvement, FHIS has delivered
quickly a much larger program than the line ministries could have with the
same budget. For example, MOE staff estimate that FHIS can build about five
times more classrooms than the Ministry in a given year, because the MOE does
not have the adequate institutional capacity to plan, implement, and supervise
a high volume of decentralized social infrastructure projects.
3.22      A more detailed analysis is required to determine the full impact
of FPIS assistance and to provide a reliable basis for adjustments in policies
and operations. For this purpose, FHIS-I has provided for a LSMS, which will
provide data for the impact study. However, under FHIS-I, partly due to the
short time span between effectiveness of the credit and the mid-term review,
the LSMS was not launched, and an impact study was not carried out. This



12
study will be carried out not later than November 30, 1992, and will be used
for the mid-term review, which would take place before February 28, 1993
(para. 5.25). In March 1992, FHIS created a unit to undertake impact studies
of FHIS subprojects. In April 1992, the unit initiated a household survey for
the general population, which contains questions of specific interest to the
FHIS; the survey of FHIS's beneficiaries is scheduled for August 1992.  During
neaotiatione. agreement was reached that: by no later than November 30. 1992.
the Borrower would carry out and furnish to IDA a study assessina the impact
of the activities carried out by FHIS under FHIS-I. under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.2 (a)).
D.        Institutional ImDact
3.23      FHIS subprojects are implemented by a wide variety of institutions
and organizations as shown in the table below. Most subprojects are sponsored
by municipalities or government organizations and are implemented by private
contractors.  NGOs are usually both sponsor and implementing agency.
k ., , . - .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  .  ..    ,-...a:I
(AS 01 DKO3MWR )I  19-91).
' :: -  X'0 'E  '- - XT      1 4190 ',y0 ,0:US0
Municipalities                     2,201    30,213
Neighborhood Organizations           343      4,336
NGOs                                  85      6,058
Ministry of Education                  81     1,658
Ministry of Health                     76     2,910
Religious Groups                      58        209
Other Government Organizations         14     4,311
Other                                  12       337
TOTAL                              2,870    50,032
3.24      FHIS has had a positive impact on the institutional development of
executing agencies. NGOs have improved their subproject appraisal methodology
and implementation strategies. FRIS subprojects have had an even greater
impact on private contractors, 1,037 of which have worked on FHIS-financed
subprojects to date, and several of them, who were individual contractors,
have expanded into small firms. Another interesting development has been the
improvement of municipalities in project preparation. Several of them, who
were very weak institutionally at the start of FHIS, have contracted qualified
engineers who could design good-quality project proposals. Poorest
municipalities have received special assistance from FHIS in project



13
preparation. FHIS is also starting to have an impact on line ministries who
recognize FHIS's comparative advantage in getting subprojects implemented.
They are looking at the PHIS model and are improving their own methods of
operation.
E.        Other Components of the FHIS-I Proiect
3.25      The pilot nutrition component was well conceived and successfully
implemented. It has reached 176,900 beneficiaries and proved a cost-effective
instrument for income transfer targeted to those among the poor who are most
at risk of malnutrition -- namely children and pregnant and lactating women.
In addition, the program raised the demand for preventive health services by
1312 in 1991, compared to 3% p.a. during the 1989-90 period, and increased
enrollment in primary schools from 3.4% to 29.5% in 1991, compared to a 1.1%
average growth rate in 1989. Based on the success of this pilot program, an
expanded targeted food coupon program is now under consideration for possible
financing by IDA and other donors (paras. 2.13 and 2.14).
3.26      The implementation of the pilot food coupon program demonstrated
the advantages of starting on a small scale to prepare for the eventual
expansion of a new form of nutrition interventio-n. The pilot performance
shows that the coupons are used primarily to buy food and school supplies, are
widely exchanged in the private market, and are well targeted to the poor
through both primary schools and primary health care units, and can be
successfully expanded on a larger scale. The pilot program confirms that a
food coupon program is more efficient and less costly to administer than a
conventional food distribution program, because it leaves all the logistics of
food distribution to the private sector.
3.27      The technical assistance component to help the Government design
improvements in equity and efficiency of health and education service delivery
has led to reform proposals by the Government, which are being reviewed, and
would lead to a possible social sector adjustment operation. Although the
impact study of the PHIS was not carried out (para. 3.22), elements of the
LSMS have been incorporated into the regular statistical surveys that are
periodically carried out by the Ministry of Planning's Department of
Statistics and Census, and are expected to improve the Government's capacity
to evaluate social sector interventions.
IV. THE SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
A.        Obiectives and Anvroach
4.1       FHIS was designed as a financing mechanism to help protect and
improve the standard of living of marginal population groups during the period
of economic adjustment. Through the financing of social and economic
infrastructure, social services, and informal sector subprojects, FHIS aims at
improving the standard of living in poor communities where malnutrition and
illiteracy rates are high and government services scarce because of the
limited reach and institutional weaknesses of line ministries.



14
4.2       Several mechanisms have been put in place to enoure that
subprojects would be properly targeted to the poor. First, wages paid on
FRIS-financed projects are aligned with the market rate for unskilled labor,
to ensure participation of individuals in the lowest deciles of the Honduras
income scale. Second, FHIS allocates its funds on the basis of a poverty map
ranking all 18 departments and 290 municipalities of the country based on
population, child malnutrition, and access to potable water and basic
sanitation indicators. These indicators have been used to produce a
departmental and municipal index of poverty and to assign additional resources
to the poorest departments and municipalities. Third, the programming of
funds by sectors require that social services subprojects represent at least
20% of the overall program. Fourth, subprojects with high social return are
given priority.
4.3       Subproject financing can be requested by municipalities, Government
ministries, NGOs, and community groups. The subprojects are executed by
private sector contractors or NGOs, and supervised by EHIS or a third party
with the necessary technical qualifications.  FBIS evaluates each subproject
based on targeting and sector priorities, a site inspection, strict cost
specifications, and social benefits in accordance with the Operational Manual
agreed with IDA.
B.        Institutional and ManaRerial Aspects
4.4       FHIS was created by law on February 22, 1990, according to which
FBIS: (i) has a life of three years (to be extended to four years under the
FHIS-II project); (ii) is a financing and not an executing entity; (iii) is
subject to external audits; and (iv) uses special procedures for public
contracting.
4.5       The creation and operation of PHIS have been declared a high
priority by the President of the Republic. Clearly, EHIS has solid support at
all levels of the Government, and is given high priority by Government
agencies. FHIS has a Board of nine members, chaired by the President of the
Republic, and including top Government officials and representatives of the
private sector, cooperatives, and NGOs. It meets quarterly to: (i) approve
general policies and rules of operation; (ii) approve the annual budget (once
a year); (iii) authorize FHIS to contract loans; and (iv) review FHIS
performance. Project approval is left to the operations committee, which is
headed by the FHIS Executive Director and includes all FHIS department
directors. The Executive Director has the rank of cabinet minister. The
incumbent comes from the private sector. He is dynamic and well respected.
4.6       IBIS is organized into seven departments for projects, special
projects, administration and finance, monitoring and supervision, external
financing, legal, and data processing. The projects department, responsible
for subproject promotion and appraisal, is divided in line with the three main
programs of FHIS: social and economic infrastructure, social services and
informal sector. The special projects department handles the promotion,
appraisal and supervision of all subprojects greater than US$35,000, mostly
large water and sanitation projects, distributed geographically in poor areas
throughout all 18 departments, and approved on the basis of rigorous economic



15
and engineering analysis. FHIS has a total staff of 124, of which 82 are
professionals, including civil engineers, economists, sociologists, credit
specialists, computer engineers, and other technical specialists. Most
department heads have graduate degrees from abroad and their competence is
comparable to the highest level in the public sector.
4.7       FHIS-financed subprojects have been implemented rapidly and
efficiently. Total FHIS administrative costs have represented 9% of total
commitments, vhich is reasonable based on the number of subprojects processed
and their average cost. A detailed analysis of FHIS administrative costs
shows that expenditures for staffing, professional and technical services,
promotion, travail, and maintenance were fully justified in relation to the
number ot subprojects processed by FHIS, and the mid-term review concluded
that FHIS had not recruited sufficient supervision staff (para. 3.13). The
6.51 of total commitments anticipated at PHIS-I appraisal was an
underestimation influenced by the performance of other social funds with a
considerably larger average size of subprojects.
4.8       Several factors explain FHIS's ability to process and approve
subprojects rapidly. First, FHIS has an effective Executive Director with
valuable private sector experience. He has also been effective in raising
funds from foreign donors and maintaining good relations with Government
ministries. Furthermore, FHIS's status as a statutory organization outside
the civil service has helped contain political pressure. FHIS staff are
experienced, dedicated, work long hours, and are paid competitive salaries.
4.9       FHIS also has a sound administrative structure (para. 4.6).  The
apportionment of the projects department in three divisions, one for each of
the three programs, assigns clear responsibility and accountability. Each
division has assigned clear responsibilities to staff in charge of promotion
and appraisal of subprojects. There is a separate supervision department that
covers all three programs.
4.10      The use of standardized project types has promoted the efficiency
of FHIS. Sponsors choose from a project menu, e.g., schools or health posts,
which considerably simplifies project preparation and streamlines project
processing (Anndxes 9-11). This, together with extensive prescreening, has
contributed to a low subproject rejection rate of about 2 percent.
4.11      FHIS has a good microcomputer-based management information system
which facilitates subproject administration and monitoring by enabling the
staff to rapidly access data on the current status of any subproject. It is
also helpful in discussions with sponsors on the status of their subprojects.
FHIS is now integrating its management information system to eliminate
inefficiencies and minor reporting inconsistencies that resulted from the use
of four separate computer systems. The new system will help improve
subproject supervision and financial analysis, which needs to be strengthened
in the areas of cash flow projections and monitoring of disbursements and
administrative costs.



16
C.        Subvroiect Programmint and Implementation
4.12      The FHIS finances subprojects in accordance with eligibility
criteria and evaluation parameters established in an Operational Manual
approved by IDA under FHIS-I. Investments are financed in the areas outlined
below, according to the following standardized menu of subprojects:
a)     Social Infrastructure Subproiects:  This program (Annex 9)
includes: (i) the rehabilitation, maintenance, and
construction of pre-primary and primary schools, health
centers and posts, water and sewerage systems (which are
expected to have direct health improvement benefits); and
(ii) maintenance of rural roads.
b)     Economic Infrastructure    Droiects:  This progrqm (Annex 10)
includes the financing o    (i) public works and simple
infrastructure such as repairs and construction of canals and
ditches, construction of gutters and sidewalks, and
forestation aud reforestation; and (ii) projects of special
interest to protect cultural heritage and ethnic minorities,
provided that projects in either category generate
significant employment at reasonable costs.
C)     Social Services Subproiects:  Through this program, which
targets pregnant and lactating women and children aged 0 to
12 years (Annex 11), FHIS finances programs for nutrition,
primary health care, vaccination, primary and pre-primary
education (such as school breakfasts), nutrition assistance
to pre-school age children, early stimulation, training of
midwives, health promotors, and community health guardians,
provision of furniture, teaching materials and small
libraries to primary schools.
d)     Informal Sector Proiects:  The FHIS makes funds available to
NGOs for lending at market oriented rates to help expand
small and micro-enterprises in the productive and service
sectors (Annex 14). Terms and conditions for financing of
informal sector projects are spelled out in the Operational
Manual.
4.13      As of December 31, 1991, FHIS had approved 2,870 subprojects for a
total of about US$50 million. This represents about 80% of total FHIS
commitments originally expected (i.e., total project cost of US$68 million
less beneficiaries' contribution of US$6 million) in about half the originally
planned total project life. As of December 31, 1991, a total of 1,221
subprojects were in execution, with 1,649 completed. As part of the mid-term
review, a sample of about 100 subprojects was visited by a team of sector
specialists (engineers, sociologists, and credit specialists) and was found to
be of generally good quality.
4.14      The average subproject size of US$14,500 is more than twice the
average of US$6,200 during the first year of FHIS, but only about one-third to



17
one-fourth the average subproject size of similar social funds in the Latin
American region. This reflects the FHIS strategy to finance eligible
subprojects targeted to the poor in all municipalities of the country (while
allocating more resources to poorer areas; para. 4.16) and to ensure political
neutrality in selection of municipalities. As a result, PHIS had to spread
limited resources, especially during the first year, over 290 municipalities.
Another reason for the small subproject size is the small unit cost of social
infrastructure subprojects, such as classroom rehabilitation and latrine
construction, which received a high priority from FHIS.
4.15      As shown in Table 1 below, the largest part of the financing went
to social infrastructure (63Z of total commitments compared to 43% estimated
at appraisal). These subprojects include rehabilitation and expansion of
primary school and health posts, water and sewerage systems. FHIS also
financed economic infrastructure subprojects such as road improvement,
drainage and retention walls (16% of total commitments, which was less than
the 271 anticipated at FHIS-I appraisal and confirms FHIS's strategy to give
lower priority to economic infrastructure and higher priority to social
infrastructure). Social services such as training of midwives and health
volunteers, deworm4ng of children, provision of vitamins to children and
mothers, and supply of school desks to primary schools, represented 14Z of
total commitments, which is smaller than the appraisal '.arget of 22Z. This
social services program has started well, but is currently unbalanced, with an
excessive emphasis on the school desks program. FHIS recognizes this
imbalance, and has agreed to improve the balance of the portfolio (paras.
3.15, 3.19). To that effect, in FHIS-II, the following programs, included in
the social services subprojects menu (Annex 11), would receive special
promotion: (i) training of midwives; and (ii) community training in health
and basic sanitation (para. 3.19). Finally, FHIS provided credit (7% of total
cost), through NGOs, at market rates, to small and micro-entrepreneurs such as
market vendors and handicraft makers, who do not have access to the banking
system. Subloans have a 24 month maturity, including 3 months grace. This
program has worked well with arrears of only 3.7 percent.
Table 1: ACTUAL COMMITMENTS AND APPRAISAL ALLOCATIONS OF FHIS
(April 1990 - September 1991)
(X)
ar ~  ~            --  ::  -  *.... . . .L   -:..  . : .  . ... :.
Economic Infrastructure           27           16
Social Infrastructure             43           63
Social Services                   22           14
Informal Sector                    8            7
TOTAL                            100          100



18
D.        Targeting of Funds
4.16      The FHIS aims at nationwide coverage, assigning additional
resources to the poorest areas (para. 4.14). Resources are first allocated to
each of the 18 departments according to population size and a poverty index,
composed of sanitation, water supply and child malnutrition indicators from
the 1988 census. Within each department, resources are again allocated by
municipality, according to the same criteria. Municipalities are grouped in
five categories, ranging from very poor to acceptable. Poor municipalities
(i.e., very poor, poor, and deficient) are assigned larger allocations on a
per capita basis than the other municipalities. The regular and acceptable
municipalities are eligible for FHIS financing because there are poor people
in relatively wealthier municipalities. A one percent increase in the poverty
index would imply a US$0.14 increase in the allocation of funds. It was
difficult to achieve this target, particularly in the early phase of FHIS,
since poorer municipalities have less capacity to prepare subprojects (para.
4.18).
4.17      Geographic targeting is complemented by a sectoral target
allocation as follows: economic infrastructure (27%), social infrastructure
(43%), social services (22Z), and informal sector (8Z). For economic and
social infrastructure, and informal sector subprojects, these percentages
generally reflect demand by municipalities and community groups. For social
services subprojects, based on agreement between FHIS and IDA, the percentage
was set at a much higher level than if selection of subprojects had been
totally demand driven. The financing of these types of subprojects is
considered important because of the status of health, nutrition, and education
indicators in Honduras. However, these subprojects are complex and need to be
implemented by decentralized agencies and NGOs in close collaboration with
line ministries. Such institutional capacity is scarce and needs to be
developed, a process to which FHIS-I is currently contributing, and that would
be continuca under EHIS-Il through the technical assistance provided by UNDP
(para. 3.12).
4.18      To date, PHIS resources have been allocated to all 290
municipalities. Actual F1HS resource commitments show that poor
municipalities received about 601 of total PHIS resources, which is below the
731 target agreed at PHIS-I appraisal. On a per capita basis, a one percent
increase in the poverty index for a given municipality is associated with an
increase in its actual per capita commitment of US$0.02, as opposed to a
planned US$0.14 increase. The proposed project would address this shortcoming
in various ways, in parvicular, through stepped-up promotion activities in
poorer communities, diversification of the social service subprojects menu,
preparation of an action plan to channel more resources to poorer communities
than under FHIS-I, and PHIS's obligation to consult with IDA before exceeding
the resource allocation ceilings for richer communities (paras. 3.19, 4.20).
4.19      Experience of several social funds has shown that, if no targeting
mechanism is used to allocate investments, a larger proportion of funds will
be absorbed by wealthier municipalities that have a larger demand for projects
and a greater capacity to prepare project proposals because of the larger
number of private firms, engineers, and NGOs operating in these areas. The



19
purpose of the targeting mechanism under FHIS-I was to ensure that funds would
be more fairly distributed. To a significant extent, this was attained,
although the goals set up by FHIS, which were ambitious, were not fully
reached. Table 2 compares actual commitments to target allocations in the
municipalities, which are groupod in 5 categories, ranging from very poor to
acceptable. It shows: (i) that the poorer municipalities (i.e., the total of
the 3 groups: "very poor", "poor", and "deficient") received 70% of funds
allotted to them at appraisal; (ii) that FHIS has been successful in limiting
fund resources in the "acceptable" municipalities; but (iii) that the
"regular" municipalities received significantly more than their planned
allotment because money not spent by poorer municipalities in one department
was reallocated to other areas and programs. Poorer municipalities committed
only 70Z of their allocated resources because: (i) they have a lower capacity
to prepare subprojects; (ii) NGO-sponsored subprojects tend to be located in
"regular" and "acceptable" municipalities since there are greater informal
sectors; (iii) promotion was insufficient in poorer municipalities; and (iv)
subprojects are usually smaller in poorer areas. Under FHIS-II, technical
assistance would be provided to poorer municipalities to help improve their
project preparation capacity (para. 3.12).
Table 2: COMPARISON BETWEEN PLANNED AND COMMITTED RESOURCES
By Municipality Category
(April 1990-September 1991)
C O ..  .    1      ' . . ...  ;                  C:1               I  11:? O?AL
Very Poor     20         4.9      7.1      69         60        71         19
Poor          21         4.1      6.7      61         57        62         16
Deficient     25         4.7      5.8      81         70        83        22
Sub-Total    66        4.6      6.5      70         62        72         70
Regular       26         8.0      4.9    164         137       170         40
Acceptable     8         2.2      4.5      49         54        48          3
TOTAL     100        5.3       5.9      90        79        92        100
4.20     FPIS needs to improve its targeting performance and has already
started to take measures to that effect. An encouraging transition has
already started between 1990 and 1991 (Table 2), with the percentage of the
committed amount in the very poor communities rising from 60% to 71% of their
planned resources. As a result of the mid-term review, FHIS began to
intensify its promotion efforts in late 1991 in the 80 poorest municipalities,
where FHIS engineers helped local groups prepare more subprojects. The
results of these efforts are shown in Annex 12. To further improve targeting
results under EHIS-II, durina negotiations: (i) the Borrower provided
evidence that FRIS has prepared an action plan for 1992 and 1993. satisfactory



20
to IDA. to channel more funds than in 1990 and 1991 to poorer municivalities.
based on a Doverty index (para. 7.1 (d))I and lii) aRreement was reached that.
w_ithout IDA's approvel. FHIS would not make new commitments of funds to
"reazular" and "acceptable" municipalities over and above the amounts
programmed in the action plan for these municipalities (para. 7.2 (b)).
E.        Coordination with Other Government Agencies
4.21      FHIS has coordinated its operations well with line ministries and
agencies, including MOH, MOE, Public Works (SECOPT), the Water and Sewerage
Authority (SANAA), and the Municipal Bank (BANMA), and has a good working
relationship with them. IHIS is clearly viewed as a temporary institution
whose purpose is to complement the line ministries during a period of
adjustment, and its projects are geared to fit into the long-term plans of the
ministries. FHIS has followed the ministries' technical norms and standarde
in its projects (e.g., prototype architectural designs for schools), and FRIS
informs the ministries of its proposed subprojects by fax. The ministries
have a week to reply on a non-objection basis. FRIS also meets periodically
with these ministries and agencies to review their respective pipeline of
projects and with other financing agencies such as USAID or IDB who finance
many of the ministries' programs. The mid-term review has shown the
effectiveness of the FHIS coordinating mechanisms since: (i) all the
Ministries and agencies concerned were satisfied that FHIS operates within
their overall objectives and plans; and (ii) achieving a high level of
interagency coordination has not delayed subproject implementation.
F.        Subproiect Sustainabilitv
4.22      FHIS has structured its subprojects to ensure the sustainability of
each investment and its benefits. IRIS supports subprojects with low
recurrent costs, such as training of health care promoters in the social
services program. In the infrastructure program, FHIS gives priority to the
rehabilitation or expax'sion of schools and health centers, rather than new
construction, and it finances road maintenance as opposed to construction.
Before contracts for the construction of schools or health posts are signed,
PHIS requires confirmation from MOH or MOE that the required positions of
teachers or nurses have been created and budgeted by the ministry. Also,
counterpart financing of at least 5% of the total subproject cost is required
from beneficiaries (or sponsors in the case of subprojects sponsored and
implemented by NGOs), to ensure submission of good quality subprojects that
would likely be sustainable beyond IHIS support. In practice, the proportion
of counterpart funds has been much higher, on average 122 of total subproject
costs in 1991, because: (i) when possible, PHIS has asked for more
counterpart funds; and (ii) in a number of cases, sponsors (e.g., NGOs) have
presented financing requests with a higher proportion of counterpart funds.
4.23      FHIS has also undertaken considerable efforts to ensure the
sustainability of water and sewerage subprojects. All subproject contracts
have a clause requiring the final owner of the project, SANAA or the
municipality, to provide for cost recovery and maintenance. As SANAA's
operational coverage is limited mostly to urban areas, IHIS has organized the
formation of local water committees where necessary. In agreement with the



21
municipality and SANAA, the local committees set up tariffs and administer
revolving funds to recover sufficient funds to cover the costs of operation
and maintenance of water and sanitation systems. For the operation and
routine maintenance of the system, local water committees require appropriate
equipment which PHIS will finance. Annex 13 provides the operational status
of water and sanitation subprojects financed by FHIS. FHIS has signed a
contract with APP, to provide technical assistance to the poorer
municipalities to set up and strengthen water committees and assist them to
establish and collect tariffs. APP has a good track record in the water
sector in Latin America. Furthermore, UNDP is also supporting an
institutional development program in 40 of the poorest municipalities to help
train local officials in subproject evaluation and supervision. In addition
to these efforts, to fully ensure the sustainability of infrastructure
subprojects, PHIS has agreed to strengthen its supervision department.
4.24      As regards social services subprojects (para. 4.12 (c)), EHIS has
been careful to select subprojects sponsored by NGOs who have a proven track
record in the type of subproject presented. Also, IHIS supports the expansion
of already successful projects, and requires significant cost sharing from the
sponsoring NGOs. These subprojects are approved in consultation with MOE and
NOH, who ensure recurrent cost funding for the operation of the facilities
provided for under the subprojects and take over the ownership when the
subprojects are completed (e.g., construction of school desks).
4.25      Institutional capacity is also an important factor in screening
NGOs presenting subprojects in the informal sector. NGOs must have experience
in the administration of credit programs; the revolving funds they manage must
not have arrears of more than 5Z; and loans are made to final beneficiaries at
market oriented rates, to cover operating costs and avoid decapitalization of
revolving funds. While the informal sector program works well overall, it was
temporarily affected by weaknesses in the billing of debt service to NGOs, and
introduction of different interest rates and repayment schedules by another
IBLS donor. These problems were resolved at the mid-term review when sub-loan
conditions were standardized. This program would continue to receive close
monitoring under the proposed project.



22
G.        Resource Mobilization and Needs
4.26      FHIS has been successful in mobilizing international financing for
an estimated total project cost of US$68 million, as follows:
Government of Honduras       8.0
Beneficiaries                7.0
IDA                         20.0
USAID                        8.0
KfW                          12.0
GTZ                          0.2
Government of Canada         0.5
UNDP                         0.6
UNICEF                       0.1
Government of Netherlands   2.1
Government of Spain          0.6
Government of Japan          0.4
Others                       8.5
TOTAL                       68.0
4.27      As of December 31, 1991, FRIS had committed US$50 million (742) of
the total available funds of US$68 million.  Regarding IDA assistance, FHIS
had disbursed US$12.1 million, or 601 of the total IDA credit, i.e.,
considerably more than the amount of US$7.5 million (381 of the total credit)
expected at appraisal. Given that total remaining funds available from all
sources are about US$18 million, based on a recent commitment rate of about
US$3 million per month, FHIS would run out of funds for commitments as early
as June 1992. This is why additional funds are urgently required to allow
PHIS to continue its operations beyond mid-1992.
4.28      FHIS has clearly demonstrated that it has a strong implementation
capacity, and the Government has provided adequate counterpart funds. At the
time of  MIS-I appraisal, IDA appraised a project of more than US$100 million
as the Honduran Government proposed. But at negotiations, IDA and the
Government agreed to downsize the project to US$68 million because of
uncertainty about FHIS's implementation capacity and availability of
counterpart funds. Based on the successful FPIS-I experience, PHIS could
easily channel additional funds to finance subprojects totaling about US$60
million by December 1993.



23
V. THE PROJECT
A.        Obiective
5.1       The aim of the project is to help the Government sustain its
poverty alleviation efforts and maintain LIcial cohesion while the line
ministries strengthen their institutional capacities and complete their reform
rograms. As stated in para. 2.10, the methods of operation and procedures of
he FHIS would be transmitted to social ministries to the extent possible to
&elp them improve their efficiency and equity of service delivery.
B.        Description
5.2       The project would include financing of a range of small-scale
subprojects sponsored by municipalities, community organizations, and NGOs, in
four broad categories: (i) social infrastructure (54% of FHIS subproject
costs); (ii) economic infrastructure (13%); (iii) social services (22%); and
(iv) credits to small informal sector entrepreneurs (10.7%). Operating costs
of the FHIS are projected to represent 9% of total project costs. Finally,
the credit would assist the NLO (0.3% of total project cost) to: (i) promote
the development of NGOs in Honduras; (ii) improve cooperation between NGOs and
Government agencies for development projects; (iii) provide training to NGOs
to increase their project preparation and implementation capacity; and (iv)
attract international NGOs to operate in Honduras. Additional details on the
NLO are provided in Annex 8.
5.3       The proceeds of the credit (US$10.2 million equivalent) would be
lknt to the Republic of Honduras, which would pass on US$10.0 million as a
grant to the FHIS. The FHIS, in turn, would use the credit, in conjunction
with funds from other international donors and the National Treasury, to
finance subprojects in local communities implemented by private contractors,
NGOs, and public agencies under the technical supervision of appropriate
agencies. The Government would allocate the balance of US$0.2 million for the
implementation of part (ii) of the project (NLO). As a condition for
sffectiveness. a Subsidiary Agreement for makin. the funds available by the
orrower to the FHIS. satisfactory to IDA. would be entered into (para. 7.3
c)).
C.        Implementation
5.4       The project would be implemented over a period of about two years.
The main executing agency would be FHIS, which has clearly demonstrated its
strong implementation capacity over the last two years. During neRotiations.
areement was reached that any future appointment of the Executive Director of
HIS would be subiect to prior IDA consultation and atreement (para. 7.2 (c)).
he other executing agency, the NLO, would receive appropriate technical
assistance under the project to execute the NGO institutional development
component. As a condition for disbursement. the Borrower would appoint key
staff to the NLO and issue the refulations to the legislation that established
the NLO (para. 7.4).



24
D.        Costs and Financina Plan
5.5       The total project cost, net of taxes and tariffs, expressed in
January 1992 prices, is estimated at US$67.5 million equivalent. Foreign
exchange costs (US$17.0 million) represent 25% of the total project cost. A
breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Annexes 3 and 4,
respectively. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 6. Since the
project is essentially a financial intermediary type operation and physical
targets are not the main objectives of the proposed project, no contingencies
have been provided. Any increase in the average oubproject amount would be
reflected in a reduced number of subprojects executed. The cost estimates of
the FHIS component are based on FHIS actual costs in 1991. The costs of
technical assistance to NLO, which would finance consultants and studies, are
based on the average cost of technical assistance provided by UN agencies in
Honduras.
5.6       The estimates of FHIS subprojects reflect a consensus of sector
specialists (water and sewerage, rural roads, health and education) and NGOs.
A large number of projects in all these sectors have been on the shelf of
ministries for a number of years because of a lack of executing capacity and
complicated bureaucratic procedures. Total estimated demand exceeds FHIS
capacity and the average project size was estimated on the basis of FHIS
subproject processing capacity together with capacity of private contractors,
NGOs, Government agencies and municipalities to execute subprojects.
5.7       The proposed IDA credit of SDR7.445 million (US$10.2 million
equivalent) would finance 15% of total project cost. Local beneficiaries
(including ultimate beneficiaries, m_.nicipalities, NGOs or other entities)
would contribute US$3.1 million. The Borrower's contribution would be US$6.7
million. It would finance FHIS'S operating costs over two years up to a total
of about US$5.6 million. The balance would be used to finance FHIS
subprojects. During negotiations. agreement was reached that the Borrower
would orovide funds as indicated in the nroiect financing plan and as needed
to cover the operating costs of tho FHIS (para. 7.2 (d)). IDB has indicated
that it intends to contribute US$31.5 million, subject to its satisfactory
appraisal of the project, which took place in April 1992. Other respective
financing agencies would be KfW with US$6.0 million, the EEC with US$4.0
million, USAID with US$2.7 million, World Food Program with US$1.6 million,
and the Netherlands, UNDP, Spain, France, and UNICEF whose financing would
total US$1.7 million. Durina nezotiations. the Borrower Provided evidence
that financing of anproximately USS30 million would be available from the IDB.
and a total of ayproximately USS10 million from other financing agencies and
donors (para. 7.1 (e)). As a condition for effectiveness, the Borrower would
agree that a fundina aareement of approximately USS30 million between the THIS
and IDB. and funding agreements totaling apt3roximatelv USS10 million for the
FHIS. with other financina agencies and donors. resnectively. would have been
siRned (para. 7.3 (d)). The proposed financing plan is summarized below:



25
Financina Plan:                     Local        Foresin      Total
----US$ million--------
Government of Honduras               6.7            0.0        6.7
Beneficiaries                        3.1            0.0        3.1
IDA                                  8.2            2.0       10.2
IDB                                 20.5           11.0       31.5
RfW                                  4.0            2.0        6.0
EEC                                  3.2            0.8        4.0
USAID                                2.0            0.7        2.7
World Food Program                   1.6            0.0        1.6
Government of Netherlands            0.6            0.4        1.0
UNDP                                 0.2            0.0        0.2
Government of Spain                  0.2            0.1        0.3
Government of France                 0.1            0.0        0.1
UNICEF                               0.1            0.0        0.1
TOTAL                               50.5            17.0      67.5
E.        Procurement
5.8       The FHIS law ensures regulation of its contracting of works and
goods through procedures based on contract amounts. PHIS adopted procedures
in conformity with IDA requirements, which are much simpler than the complex
Honduras procurement law. These special procurement procedures instituted for
PHIS proved successful in expediting project implementation and in ensuring
competitive prices. On the basis of a sample review of subprojects, FHIS has
correctly applied the procurement procedures agreed with IDA, and the same
procurement methods would be applied for FHIS-II. Direct contracting was
accepted under FHIS because for some subprojects in remote locations it would
have been the only alternative as no more than one contractor was expected to
show interest. In these cases, to ensure fair pricing, FPIS has established a
system of standard unit prices by region on the basis of which FHIS negotiates
the price directly with the contractor. This schedule of standard
regionalized unit prices has been updated by FPIS periodically. Items to be
financed by IDA under the proposed project would be carried out in accordance
with IDA procurement guidelines which would prevail over local public sector
procurement legislation and practices.  Items to be procured by otl r
financing agencies would follow these agencies' procurement guidelines.
Social infrastructure subprojects to be financed by IDA are expected to total
about US$11.1 million equivalent (including Government counterpart funds) and
to average about US$20,000, with the largest single project costing no more
than US$500,000.
5.9       For civil works contracts below US$50,000, local shopping requiring
at least three quotations would apply, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.3
million. For some project components in remote locations direct contracting
would be applied under exceptional circumstances, consistent with para. 3.5 of
the IDA Procurement Guidelines. In cases where only one offer would be
available, FHIS has agreed to establish a system of standard regionalized unit
prices on the basis of which it would negotiate the price of the contract
directly with the implementing agency. This system of contracting would apply



26
for contracts up to a maximum amount of US$35,000, and up to an aggregate
amount of US$2.2 million, which is included within the above aggregate amount
of US$3.3 million for local shopping. This schedule of standard regionalized
unit prices would be maintained and updated by FHIS at least every six months.
During neaotiations. agreement was reached that the Borrower would, by no
later than September 30 and March 31 of each year. startine on SeDtember 30.
1992. cause PHIS to review the standard reeionalized unit prices for goods and
works established by PHIS. iointlv with IDA. and cause FHIS to change Dromptlv
such prices. in form and substance satisfactory to IDA. if so recommended by
such a review (para. 7.2 (e)). This procedure would also apply for basic
needs subprojects to be carried out by NGOs or community organizations. This
procedure is acceptable to IDA in view of: (a) the importance of
administrative simplicity for handling about 20 contracts per week; and (b)
the operational audit system which would review procurement in subprojects on
a quarterly basis (para. 5.22). This procedure is being successfully applied
under the FHIS-I project now under execution. Monitoring procedures would be
set in place to ensure that: (i) contracts are not divided into smaller
packages for the purpose of awarding smaller contracts under direct
contracting; and (ii) there is no excessive concentration of contracts awarded
to the same individuals or contractors. Local shopping is justified because
the scale of most subprojects would be quite small demanding little, if any,
heavy equipmen..  Most works would be carried out in scattered places in 290
municipalities over a period of about two years. Under these circumstances,
it is unlikely that large domestic contractors would be interested in bidding
for small civil works.
5.10      Civil works contracts between US$50,000 and US$500,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$6.2 million, would be procured through LCB. Although
no international bidding (ICB) is expected because of the decentralized nature
of FHIS operations and the small size of subprojects, to the extent possible,
contracts for works would be combined in packages of US$500,000 or more and
contracts would be awarded on the basis of ICB, in accordance with IDA's
guidelines.
5.11      For goods, ICB would apply to contracts above US$250,000.  Although
no contracts above US$250,000 are expected, and therefore no ICB is expected
for equipment, to the extent practicable, contracts for goods would be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more. LCB
would apply for contracts between US$25,000 and US$250,000, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.9' million, and local shopping for contracts less than
US$25,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million (Annex 5). Local and
regional preferences, in accordance with IDA's guidelines, may be granted only
to local manufacturers under ICB contracts for goods.
5.12      Consultants would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for
the use of consultants. Taxes paid by foreign consultants on the foreign
currency portion of their contracts would be borne or refunded by PHIS.
5.13      The legal documents include the following procurement provisions to
avoid conflict with IDA's guidelines: (a) for works and goods to be procured
under LCB: (i) contracts should be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder;
(ii) foreign firms should be allowed to bid without prior registration and



27
should not be required to have a local agent or associate themselves with
local firms; (iii) foreign firms should not be required to certify that, in
their country of origin, Honduran firms are allowed to participate under equal
terms for contracting; (iv) in calculating the lowest price of bids, there
should be no requirement to take into consideration the financial cost of
foreign expenditures; (v) there should be no preferences to award contracts to
Honduran firms; and (vi) no slicing of contract amounts would be permitted for
the sole purpose of reducing contract price amounts; and (b) for consultants'
services: (i) foreign consultants shall be allowed to participate freely in
the selection process even if local consultants shall be available for the
concerned services; and (ii) no registration with national associations shall
be imposed on foreign consultants employed by foreign contractors or
consultants, and no mandatory association with local firms shall be required.
5.14      Propriety in contracting would be safeguarded in a number of ways:
(a) simple procurement practices, either in accordance with IDA's guidelines
or satisfactory to IDA, are being included in operational manuals under
preparation by FHIS; (b) provision is made for training and technical
assistance for contracting and administration of projects; (c) for most
smaller municipalities, FHIS would provide consultant contract managers to
assist in the implementation of project administration and, concurrently,
provide training and technical assistance; (d) projects would be supervised
regularly by FHIS field staff or contracted specialists; and (e) external
auditing of FHIS and executing agencies would be carried out on a continuous
basis, covering both financial records and physical progress.
5.15      Prior review of procurement documents and decisions by IDA would be
required for all ICB contracts, if any. For LCB contracts, the first two
contracts of each kind (i.e., for goods and for works) would be reviewed by
IDA. The balance would be subject to intensive ex-post review by IDA after
the contract award through supervision missions and quarterly audits by
independent auditors. Direct contracting would be subject to a satisfactory
review by IDA every six months of the standard regionalized unit prices
adopted by FPIS.
F.        SuDervision and Reporting
5.16      Durine negotiations. aRreement was reached that FHIS would submit
to IDA semi-annual reDorts (not later than three months after the end of each
semester) (para. 7.2 (f)) including the following information by region and
sectort (i) projects presented, appraised, in execution, completed, and
evaluated ex-post, including number of projects and beneficiaries, amounts
committed and executed and average cost per beneficiary per year; (ii) sources
of funds for each subproject; (iii) FHiS's personnel and consultants
indicating the changes that have taken place during the reporting period; and
(iv) operating costs of FHIS. IDA would require ex-ante review and approval
of subprojects costing more than US$250,000. The total number of such
projects is expected to represent about one percent of all FHIS subprojects,
which is approximately equivalent to what was experienced under FHIS-I.



28
G.        Disbursements
5.17      Presidential Decree No. 19-92, published in the Official Gazette,
extends the life of the FHIS to March 31, 1994. The proposed IDA credit would
be disbursed over a period of about two and a half years, to be completed by
December 31, 1994. The final date for presentation of subprojects by EHIS to
IDA would be September 30, 1993. Subproject activities supported by the
credit are expected to be completed by March 31, 1994, the expiration date for
the life of FHIS. The project completion date would be June 30, 1994 (i.e.,
six months before the closing date). The disbursement schedule for
subprojects ends June 30, 1994, i.e., three months after the termination date
of FHIS. It would allow IDA to disburse for expenses made before the
termination of the life of FHIS in an account that would be opened by the
Government to that effect, which would be audited through procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
5.18      The expected disbursement profile for FilIS-Il (Annex 6) is in line
with the experience under FHIS-I. This profile is shorter than the profile
for LAC projects in the social sector, but is consistent with profiles for
credit projects, which the proposed project resembles more closely.
5.19      Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditure:  (i) FHIS subproiects:  90% of disbursements by FHIS approved on
or before September 30, 1993 according to FHIS's project selection and
evaluation procedures; (ii) Technical Assistance for NLO: 100Z of the cost of
eligible training and consultants' services. Durina negotiations. agreement
was reached that retroactive financing of up to USS1.0 million would be
nermitted for eligible exDenditures incurred since April 1. 1992 (para. 7.2
(g)).
H.        Documentation of Exoenditures
5.20      Withdrawal applications for goods and services with a contract
value of US$50,000 or more would be supported by full documentation.
Contracts of less than US$50,000 and disbursements against expenses not
undertaken by contract would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), for which supporting documents would be maintained by FHIS and would
be made available for review by IDA staff. A Special Account of US$1 million
would be opened in the Central Bank of Honduras under FHIS-Il. Documentation
forwarded to IDA for disbursement (SOEs or full documentation) would cover a
number of projects whose aggregate sum would be at least US$1.5 million.
I.        Accounts and Audits
5.21      Since its creation, FHIS has been audited every six months by
private, independent external auditors and always found in good order. IDA
only requires an annual audit, but, to ensure transparency, the President of
Honduras, as chairman of the Board, requested bi-annual audits.
5.22      In addition to the above statement on audit requirements, FHIS was
to be audited more thoroughly every quarter. This type of auditing combines
financial review with physical inspection of works in the field. The signing



29
of the contract with auditors for the quarterly audits was, however, delayed
because contract negotiations and the bidding process took longer than
expected. The contract was signed in November 1991, and the first quarterly
audit was issued in January 1992. It provides individual audit reports on 30
subprojects selected randomly by the auditors. The latter found no
significant errors in the use of funds.
5.23      During nexotiations. agreement was reached that private independent
external auditors. acceRtable to IDA, would undertake annual audits of FHIS
(para. 7.2 (h)). Not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
FHIS would submit to IDA certified copies of audit reports containing balance
sheets, income statements and the auditor's opinion of financial statements,
as well as separate opinions on: (i) project accounts; (ii) SOEs; (iii) the
Special Account; (iv) whether procurement of all contracts was carried out in
accordance with agreed guidelines; (v) whether internal controls in place are
adequate to minimize the possibility of misuse of funds or other
improprieties; and (vi) a summary of quarterly audits of subprojects.
5.24      During negotiations, agreement was reached that private independent
external auditors. acceptable to IDA. would undertake special quarterly audits
of FHIS's operations on the basis of acceptable accounting norms and
procedures (para. 7.2 (h)). The auditors would examine a sample of
subprojects, review the individual contracts, ascertain whether the terms of
these contracts are complied with, inspect the progress of works, reconcile
the physical progress with the financial expenses incurred, and state whether
procurement guidelines are being respected. The auditors would prepare
quarterly reports for the Board of FPIS and for IDA (to be submitted not later
than two months after each quarter), and an annual summary for IDA. The
auditors would review a representative sample of projects, acceptable to IDA.
Quarterly reports would focus on subprojects where errors have been detected
and would state that all other projects examined were in accordance with the
terms of their contracts.
J.        Mid-Term Review
5.25      By February 28, 1993, the Government and IDA would conduct a mid-
term review of progress in the implementation of FHIS, according to terms of
reference detailed in Annex 7. The focus of the mid-term review would be:
(i) the targeting of FHIS funds (in order to channel more resources to poorer
municipalities); (ii) the quality of the subprojects financed by the FHIS;
(iii) the impact of FHIS-financed subprojects; (iv) the administrative
efficiency and the financial soundness of the operations of the FHIS; (v) the
prospects for the future of the FHIS; and (vi) an assessment of the extent to
which the experience of the FHIS has been and can be transmitted to strengthen
social ministries and improve their operations. The Borrower would prepare an
action plan, acceptable to IDA, based on the results of the mid-term review
and discussions with IDA, and would thereafter implement the actions agreed
upon as a result of this review for their implementation. During
neRotiations. agreement was reached that the Borrower would undertake a mid-
term review of the FHIS-II Droject not later than February 28. 1993. prepare
an action plan, based on discussions with. and acceptable to. IDA. by March



30
31, 1993. and thereafter implement it in accordance with the timetable
included in the plan (para. 7.2 (i)).
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.        Benefits
6.1       By providing resources to poor urban and rural communities, the
PHIS would help to: (i) prevent a deterioration in the living standard of the
poor during the period of economic adjustment; (ii) improve the social
infrastructure so that the beneficiaries enjoy better sanitation, health,
lower transport costs, and less erosion damage in their communities; (iii)
reduce the rates of mortality, malautrition, and illiteracy, particularly
among women and children; and (iv) strengthen the Government experience with a
decentralized mechanism for delivering development assistance to
municipalities and small businesses and mobilizing grass-roots efforts, which
could subsequently be used by other agencies.
6.2       Environmental Effects.  Since its creation, FHIS has been concerned
about issues of environment, culture, and ethnic minorities. For example, one
subproject of FHIS-I has helped protect the Mayan culture's Copan ruins from
erosion caused by occasional floods from a nearby river. In addition to
protecting the country's cultural heritage, this project was also labor-
intensive and has been a large employer in the Copan area. Another project
consisted in providing basic sanitation to an isolated group of Jicaque
Indians living on Montana de la Flor. Another potential positive contribution
of the PHIS to the improvement of the environment would be the financing of
reforestation projects, which is one of the categories included in its list of
potential projects. The Operational Manual of the PHIS stipulates that all
subprojects financed by the FHIS in various sectors (water, roads, etc.) do
not adversely affect the environment and indigenous cultures. EHIS evaluators
use a checklist of questions to undertake a short environmental impact
assessment for each subproject. The main factors analyzed are the potential
negative effects that may result from: (i) location of infrastructure; (ii)
generation of sediments; and (iii) alteration of waterways.
6.3       Participation of Women.  HIIS has programmed 22Z of its resources
for subprojects in social se-.vices (health, nutrition and education). All
these subprojects would be presented and executed by NGOs and community
organizations, thus providing a systematic channel for the participation of
women in the improvement of their household's and communities' well-being.
The main groups to which social services projects would be directed include
women, particularly female heads of households, and pregnant and lactating
mothers, and their children up to 12 years of age. Within the social services
program, high priority would be assigned to subprojects on maternal and child
primary health care, health and nutrition education, and primary education.
Based on experience under FHIS-I, about half of the beneficiaries of informal
sector subprojects are expected to be women.



31
B.       kRik
6.4       There is a risk that the Government may attempt to alleviate the
social cost of adjustments with excessive speed, and project funds might be
poorly used and diverted to uses not envisaged in the project. Experience
with PHIS-I has demonstrated that this risk is small. Specifically, the risk
would be mitigated as a result of FHIS's commendable management, capable and
motivated staff, its good information system, quarterly audits, and close
supervision.
VII   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.        Aarrements Reached
7.1       During negotiations, the Borrower provided evidence that:
(a)    IHIS has prepared and started to promote a more diversified
social services program, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.19);
(b)    PHIS has revised the social services Operational Manual, but
such revision has not yet been approved by EHIS Board (paras.
3.19, 7.3 (b));
(c)    FBIS has confirmed that an additional number of supervision
staff, satisfactory to IDA, will be contracted by August 31,
1992 (para. 3.19);
(d)    FHIS has prepared an action plan for 1992 and 1993,
satisfactory to IDA, to channel more funds than in 1990 and
1991 to poorer municipalities, based on a poverty index
(para. 4.20); and
(a)    financing of approximately US$30 million would be available
from the IDB, and a total of approximately US$10 million from
other financing agencies and donors (para. 5.7).
7.2       During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
points:
(a)    by no later than November 30, 1992, the Borrower will carry
out and furnish to IDA a study assessing the impact of the
activities carried out by IHIS under IHIS-I, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.22);
(b)    without IDA's approval, PBIS would not make new commitments
of funds to "regular" and "acceptable" municipalities over
and above the amounts programmed in the action plan for these
municipalities (para. 4.20);



32
(c)    any future appointment of the Executive Director of PHIS
would be subject to prior IDA consultation and agreement
(para. 5.4);
(d)    the Borrower would provide funds as indicated in the project
financing plan and as needed to cover the operating costs of
the FHIS (para. 5.7);
(e)    the Borrower would, by no later than September 30 and March
31 of each year, starting on September 30, 1992, cause FHIS
to review the standard regionalized ur.it prices for goods and
works established by FHIS, jointly with IDA, and cause FHIS
to change promptly such prices, in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA, if so recommended by such a review
(para. 5.9);
(f)    PHIS would submit to IDA semi-annual reports (not later than
three months after the end of each semester) (para. 5.16);
(g)    retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million would be
permitted for eligible expenditures incurred since April 1,
1992 (para. 5.19);
(h)    quarterly and annual audits would be carried out by private
independent external auditors, acceptable to IDA, on the
basis of acceptable accounting norms and procedures (paras.
5.23, 5.24); and
Mi)    the Borrower would undertake a mid-term review of the FHIS-II
project not later than February 28, 1993, prepare an action
plan, based on discussions with, and acceptable to, IDA, by
March 31, 1993, and thereafter implement it in accordance
with the timetable included in the plan (para. 5.25).
7.3       The conditions for credit effectiveness would be the following:
(a)    a technical assistance contract between FHIS and UNDP,
satisfactory to IDA, would have been signed (para. 3.12);
(b)    that the Operational Manual has been amended and approved by
the FHIS Board, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.19);
(c)    a Subsidiary Agreement for making the funds available by the
Borrower to the PHIS, satisfactory to IDA, would be entered
into (para. 5.3); and
(d)    a funding agreement of approximately US$30 million between
the FHIS and IDB, and funding agreements totaling
approximately US$10 million for the FHIS, with other
financing agencies and donors, respectively, would have been
signed (para. 5.7).



33
704       The condition for disburement for the NL would be the appointment
of key staff to the NLO cnd the Issuance of the regulations to the Decree
which established the NLO (para. 5.4).
B.        Recomm ndation
7.5       Subject to the above assurances and condition., the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR7.445
million (US$10.2 million equivalent) to the Republic of Honduras on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity including ton years of grace.



34
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
ANNEx LIST
ANNEX s: Socioeconomic Indicators for Honduras
AUMM-2s  Agreements Reached at Mid-Term Review of  HI S-I
ANNEX 3s  Project rasto
AJLA: Financing Plan
AMEI St Methods of Procurement
ANNEX 6s  Disbursement Schedule
hIND_Z:  Terms of Reference for Mid-Term Review of 111S-II
Ah   Xg 8: NGO Liaison Office
ANNES 9:  Social Infrastructure Projects Financed by FHIS
ANNEX 10: Economic Infrastructure Projects Financed by FHIS
ANNEX 11: Social Services Pro1ects
ANNhX-12: Results of Promotion Efforts in the 80 Poorest Municipalities
ANNEX 13: Status of Water Comlittees in Charge of Water and Sanitation
Projects
ANNEX 14: Informal Sector Projects Financed by mRIS
ANNEX 15: Documents Included in the Project File



35
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR HONDURAS
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
GNP Per Capital'                               US$          1990      590
Cumulative Decline in Per Capita GDP2"          %         1981-1989  -18.2
Illiteracy" 3                                               1988       32.4
Net Enrollment in Primary Schools41             Z           1988       91.2
Infant Mortality"                           Per 1,000       1990       66
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ___ births  _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _
Malnourished Children (Underweight)"'                       1991       35
Low Weight at BirthW1                           Z           1985       20
Maternal Mortality'/                       Per 100,000      1990      221
live births
Population w/o Access to Primary Health         2         1985-1988   26
Care61
Births Unattended by Health Staff"'             Z         1983-1988   50
Dependency Ratio'1                          household       1990        4.3
members per
earner
Sources:  I/    World Atlas, 1991.
2/    Preliminary Balance of the Latin American & Caribbean
Economy, 1989, ECLAC.
31    World Bank Develoyment ReDort, 1991.
4/    Enrollment of children of primary school age which is less
than total enrollment, since the latter includes children
above primary school age. UNESCO Central America y Panama,
Situaci6n avances. limitacione. v Dersoectivas de la
escolarizaci6nm alfabetizaci6n v calidad de la oducaci6n, San
Jose, Costa Rica, 1991.
5/    UNICEF, State of the World's Children, 1990.
6/     School Nutrition Census (Height-Age; Age 6-9), 1991.  See
Servicio de Alimentaci6n Bscolar de Honduras (SAEH), II Censo
Nacional de Talla en Escolares de Primer Ingreso, March 1992.
7/    Maternal Mortality Survey, MOH, 1990.
8/     UNDP, Human Develoiment Reiort, 1991.
9/     Encuesta de Hogares, 1990, Secretaria de Planificaci6n.



36                                ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
AGREEMENTS REACHED AT MID-TERM REVIEW OF FHIS-I
.~ .... .I....O
Infrastructure
FHIS will reprogram its operations    Done.  Average project size is
to review average subproject size       projected to increase by 25% from
and the content of its investment       US$14,500 to US$18,600.
program. _*I
PHIS will take action to acquire 5    Done.
computer terminals for the
evaluation department and 3
printers.                                                                     l
FRIS will ask additional guarantees   Done.  FHIS has started to ask for
from contractors to reduce the risk   these guarantees.
of non-completion of projects.
FHIS will increase its supervision    FHIS has contracted 6 additional
staff to reach a ratio of about 40    staff, which will be sufficient for
subprojects per supervisor.             the present workload.  By August 31,
1992, EHIS will contract 13
additional supervisors, which will
be sufficient for the expansion of
operations in 1992 and 1993.
To improve its supervision              Done.  FHIS has started implementing
department, the EHIS will:  (i)         the system.
implement the "continuous
information system" already
designed, providing information on
status of subprojects according to
their processing status; and (ii)
develop and implement an adequate
management information system and
implement the system in the
supervision department.
FHIS will sign a contract with Agua   Done.  The contract was signed in
para el Pueblo (APP) for water          November 1991.
sanitation maintenance.



37                               ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
.. , , .-,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .   _...........................    ... .
FHIS will report to IDA on the         Done.  First draft report prepared
sustainability of its water and        and found satisfactory.
sanitation subprojects every 3
months.
To finance maintenance equipment for  FHIS is currently contacting
water and sewerage systems, PHIS       suppliers of equipment, in
will contact suppliers of equipment.   collaboration with APP.
EHIS will enter into an agreement      Done.  FHIS has entered into
with MOB and NGOs implementing         agreement with MOH and NGOs.
latrine subprojects to provide
training to beneficiaries.
mHIS will prepare maintenance          Done.
manuals for schools and health
centers.
IHIS will update operational manuals  Done.
for infrastructure.
Social Services
FHIS will revise the promotion and    Presented at negotiations.
appraisal manuals to:  (i) put more
emphasis on the institutional
analysis of the executing agency,
(ii) strengthen analysis of
community participation, (iii)
improve project analysis document
prepared by sponsoring agency, and
(iv) provide a better breakdown of
project costs.
IBIS will separate promotion and       Done.
evaluation functions.
FBIS will improve the balance of its  FHIS has started to discuss with the
social services portfolio.             MOH the promotion of the following
programs:  (i) training of midwives,
(ii) vaccination, and (iii)
furniture and equipment for health
centers.
FBIS will strengthen supervision by   Done.  IBIS has contracted 4
increasing the number of               additional staff, which is adequate.
supervisors.



38                               ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
FHIS will revise the supervision      Manuals presented at negotiations,
manual (part of the operational        but not yet approved by FHIS Board.
manual) in line with recommendations
made above.
Informal. Sector
M S vill unify lending criteria for  Done.
all loans.
FRIS will improve its management      Done.
information system, especially the
monitoring of debt service.
PHIS will adjust operational manuals  Done.
in accordance with above
recommendations.
Adminietration
FHIS will carry out special           Done.  By the end of January 1992,
promotion efforts in 80 of the         FHIS provided a report showing that
poorest municipalities and will help  the results of these promotion
local groups prepare more             efforts have been positive (Annex
subprojects.                           12).  In numerous cases, actual
disbursements per municipality have
exceeded the targeted programming of
funds for 1991 based on the poverty
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  m a p .
FHIS will create a small unit to      Done.  FHIS has created the unit.
monitor the impact of FHIS
subprojects through impact studies.
FEIS will strengthen its financial    FlIS has selected a candidate for
analysis capacity through the         the position of financial analyst.
recruitment of a financial analyst.  I



39
ANNE 3
Page 1 of 1
SECOND) SOCAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Foreign
Exchange               Percentage of
--    .........-        ................... .. ... .
Amount         X     Amount            Total       Cost
Cost        FNIS
1. SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
A. Subprojects
Social Infrastructure        (54 )  33.06          30       9.92           49.0      49.1
Economic Infrastructure      (13X)   7.96          20       1.59           11.8       11.8
Social Services              (22X)  13.47          15       2.02           20.0      20.0
Informal Sector             (ilK)   6.73           25       1.69           10.0      10.0
SubtotaL  (100)  61.22           25     15.22           90.7       91.0
S. Operating Cost
Salaries                      (46X)   2.82           0       0.00            4.2       4.2
Professional & Tech. Svcs.   (25X)   1.52           90       1.37            2.3       2.3
Promotion and Advertizing      (8X)  0.51            0       0.00            0.8        0.8
Travel                         (6K)  0.33           50       0.16            0.5       0.5
Rent, Maintenance, etc.       (14K)   0.90          20       0.18            1.3        1.3
...         ....      .....          .....      ..  .
Subtotal  (100)   6.08           28      1.71            9.0        9.0
SUBTOTAL FNIS          67.30           25     16.93            99.7     100.0
II.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO NLO            0.20          25       0.05            0.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    67.50          25      16.98          100.0
uuu==u= ==-=uu.uuu.uuua



40
ANNEX 4
Page I of 1
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FIILANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
- - -- - - - - - - - - -- - -- -__-- --                        - -
FHIS                            Senfj'GOs      X      Govt.      X     Donors      X      Total
Social Infrastructure               1.65      5.0     1.65      5.0   29.76      90.0   30.06
Econcmic Infrastructure             0.40      5.0    0.40       5.0    7.16      90.0    7.96
Socil Services                      0.67      5.0     0.67      5.0   12.12      90.0   13.47
Informtl Sctor                      0.67     10.0    0.34       5.0     5.72     85.0    6.73
Salarfes                            0.00      0.0    2.54      90.0    0.28      10.0    2.82
Professal A Toehnical Svcs.         0.00      0.0     1.37     90.0    0.15      10.0     1.52
Prootion aW  Advertfaing            0.00      0.0    0.51    100.0    0.00        0.0     0.51
Travl                               0.00      0.0    0.29      89.0    0.04      12.1    0.33
Rent, Naintenance, etc.             0.00      0.0    0.86      95.0     0.05      5.1     0.90
Subtotal fHIS         3.40      5.0    8.62      13.0   55.28      82.1    67.30
Technical Assistane to ILO         0.00      0.0    0.00       0.0    0.20    100.0    0.20
.................................................................................................
TOTAL                               3.40      5.0    8.62      12.77   55.48     82.2   67.50
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   - =                                     



41
AYNXE 5
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ million)
Civil Works and Materials           -.-      6.2       3.321    47.1       56.6
_._    (5.7)     (3.1)                (8.8)
Furniture and Equipment             -.-      0.9       0.231      2.9       4.0
-.-    (0.8)     (0.2)                (1.0)
Consultants Training and            -.-      -.-       0.4        0.4       0.8
Auditors' Services                  -.-      -.-       (0.4)               (0.4)
Salaries, Allowances and            -.-      -.-        -.-       6.1       6.1
Operating Costs of PHIS and NLO    -.-       -.-        -.-                (0.0)
.-      7.1       3.9      56.5      67.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 - -     (6.5)      (3.7)              (10.2)
Notes:    Numbers in parentheses reflect IDA financing.
1/  Not IDA-Financed.
2/  Includes local shopping and direct contracting, with direct
contracting up to an aggregate amount of US$2.2 million.
3/  Shopping.



42
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester           Semester  Cumulative       X    Semester
1993
First (July 1992-December 1992)         3.0        3.0        29.4        1
Second (January 1993-June 1993)         2.5        5.51       53.9        2
1994
First (July 1993-December 1993)         2.5         8.0       78.4        3
Second (January 1994-June 1994)         2.2        10.2      100.0        4
Closing Date: December 31, 1994
J    Includes the in'tial deposit of US$1.0 million to the Special
Account and US$L.0 million of retroactive financing.



43                                ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MID-TERM REVIEW OF FHIS-II
Background
1.        The purpose of the mid-term review is to evaluate project
performance during implementation, to provide project management with
immediate feed-back on project achievements as well as on areas needing
improvement, to justify and orient eventual changes in project design, and to
document the status of project execution thoroughly for the benefit of the
Borrower and the financing agencies. The mid-term review procedure consists
of an initial period of approximately two weeks when specialists contracted by
the Borrower collect data and review information, assembled by the project
management since the beginning of project implementation, focusing on
technical, administrative, and financial aspects of the project (this includes
regular monitoring information). Field visits to subproject sites are part of
this process. Following this fact-finding period, the review team analyzes
the information collected, reviews progress against original targets, and
prepares a brief report highlighting strengths and weaknesses, and makes
recommendations for management action.  The mid-term review team then joins
the project management to discuss its findings and recommendations, and arrive
at concrete agreements regarding targets to be reached and changes to be made
in project management and implementation. This procedure has been
successfully used for the mid-term review of the first FHIS project, its
recommendations proved useful to the project management and to IDA, and have
served as the basis for the preparation of the second FHIS project.
Obiectives of the Mid-Term Review of the Second Social Investment Fund Proiect
2.        The main objectives of the mid-term review of the Second Social
Investment Fund project are to determine: (i) the targeting of FHIS funds (in
order to channel more resources to poorer municipalities); (ii) the quality of
the subprojects financed by the FPIS; (iii) the impact of FHIS-financed
subprojects; (iv) the administrative efficiency and the financial soundness of
the operations of the FIS; (v) the prospects for the future of the FHIS; and
(vi) an assessment of the extent to which the experience of the FHIS can be
transmitted to strengthen social ministries and improve their operations, and
to agree on remedial actions, if necessary.
Comoosition of the Mid-Term Review Team
3.        The mid-term review team should be led by IDA staff responsible for
managing the project and should include: (i) an engineer to review social and
economic infrastructure projects; (ii) a social scientist, with extensive
project experience, to review social services subprojects; (iii) a credit
analyst, with experience in informal sector lending programs, to review the
informal sector credit subprojects; (iv) an economist, with extensive
experience in project impact analysis, to review the impact of the FHIS



44                                ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
subprojects based on a sample survey and other data; (v) a management
specialist, with experience is management information systems, financial
analysis, and procurement, to review the administrative and financial aspects
of the operations of the PHIS; and (vi) a statistician to assist in assembling
and processing data.
Specific As2ects to be Reviewed in each Area
4.        The review of tarnetina would:  (i) compare the amount of funds
channeled by FHIS to municipalities classified in five degrees of poverty
(very poor, poor, deficient, regular, and acceptable) with the amounts
allocated at the start of the project; (ii) determine the degree to which the
targeting objectives have been reached; (iii) review measures taken by FHIS to
improve channeling of funds to poorer municJnalities; and (iv) make
recommendations for improvements and reach agreement, when applicable.
5.        The technical review of the four subproject categories will include
assessments of: (i) the quality of subprojects; (ii) the sustainability of
subprojects; (iii) the size and distribution of subprojects; (iv) the
procedures for processing projects from identification to supervision; (v) the
observance of criteria established in the operational manuals for subproject
identification, appraisal, and supervision; (vi) efficiency of subproject
execution, procurement and contractual practices; (vii) proportion of a
subproject category in the overall portfolio of the FHIS and comparison with
I-portion expected at appraisal; (viii) institutional capacity of executing
a&ancies; and (ix) performance of NGOs when applicable.
6.        The impact analysis to be carried out by November 30, 1992 will be
based on monitoring and evaluation data collected by the FHIS and by other
agencies, including national household sample surveys, and sample surveys of
IBIS beneficiaries. The analysis will focus on: (i) the extent to which the
IHIS allocates investments in accordance with the targeting criteria
established at appraisal; (ii) direct and indirect benefits of the subprojects
financed by the FHIS in the communities affected; (iii) estimation of
employment generated by the IHIS; (iv) estimation of the institutional impact
of the FHIS on executing agencies; (v) eventual negative impacts of
subprojects; and (vi) replicability of the PHIS targeting mechanisms for
social investments in other governmental agencies.
7.        The administrative and financial review will focus on:  (i) overall
performance of FHIS departments; (ii) personnel administration, remuneration
scale, recruitment and retention of quality staff; (iii) accounting procedures
and results of financial audits; (iv) efficiency of management information
systems; (v) analysis of overhead costs to determine whether FHIS is achieving
its objectives in a cost-effective way; (vi) financial projections; (vii)
procurement and contract administration; (viii) disbursements of funds for
subprojects; (ix) disbursements of external loan funds; (x) distribution of
expenditures by sources of funds; (xi) co-financing arrangements; (xii)
enforcement of financial controls; (xiii) coordination between the FBIS, line
ministries, and public utility agencies; and (xiv) participation of the Board
of Directors.



45                                ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
8.        The possible future vrosvecs uf the EHIS vill be jointly analyzed
by the mid-term review team, taking in o account the Government's program of
modernization of the state and the actual and anticipated capacity
improvements of the principal social sector agencies to carry out investment
programs aimed at poverty alleviation and social development.



46                                ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
NGO LIAISON OFFICE
Background
1.        As a means of fostering increased collaboration with
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to address the urgent poverty alleviation
needs of Honduras, President Callejas hosted an international NGO Conference
at the World Bank on September 26, 1991. The proceedings of this conference
highlighted the need to increase the effectiveness of NGOs development
activities in Honduras, through the implementation of following measures: (i)
improved coordination between the Government and NGOs, among NGO working in
the same sector, and between NGOs in different sectors; (ii) development of a
centralized information facility that is easily accessible to NGOs and to
government agencies; (iii) documentation and simplification of procedures for
NGOs to operate in Honduras; (iv) training and institutional strengthening for
local NGOs; and (v) increase contacts between NGO1 and donor agencies to
expand participation of NGOs in development projects execution.
Creation of an 10Q Liaison Office
2.        Following this Conference, the Government of Honduras decided to
create a NGO Liaison Office (NLO), as the focal point for coordination of NGO
activities in the country. The decision reflects the awareness of the GOH of
the importance of NGOs in the Honduran development process as a means to
complement Government action in the social sectors, and particularly as a
means of alleviating poverty.
Oraanization of the NLO
3.        The NLO will be located at the Offiee of the Presidency.  Its
organization will consist of: (i) a Board of Directors composed of
representatives from NGOs and Government social agencies; (ii) an executive
director; (iii) legal counsel; and (iv) four operating departments including
promotion, information and communications, consultative groups, and
administration.
Work Proaram of the NLO
4.        The work program for the NLO operating departments consists of the
following:
4.1.   the promotion department will function through a liaison unit
and a service unit, working to simplify registration and operation
of NGOs in Honduras, foster the formation of local NGOs, and
promote and execute programs to strengthen the N%Os operational
capacity;
4.2.   the information and communications department has two main
areas of activity: (i) establishing efficient communication



47                              ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
channels between NGOs and government agencies, and among NGOs, by
collecting and disseminating information through various forms such
as publication of a Quarterly Bulletin of Activities, creation and
updating of an NGO directory, and mapping of NGO projects in
relation to the Honduras poverty map; and (ii) institutional
strengthenina of NGOs through the organization of, and
participation in local and international conferences, seminars, and
workshops related to training, plunning, and programing of NGO
activities;
4.3.  the consultative Rroups department consists of four joint
Government-NGO working groups whose work focuses on strengthening
the legal framework for the operation of NGOs in Honduras, and on
removing legal and regulatory barriers for the efficient
collaboration of NGOs and government agencies; and
4.4.  the administrative department will supply the necessary human
and material resources, and the logistic support for the operation
of the NLO, and will be responsible for managing the office.
Cost and Financing
5.       The cost for operating the NLO during a period of two years, is
estimated as follows:
COST ESTIIATES AND SOURCES OF FINANCING
(US$ thousand)
PROGRAMS                TOTAL      GOH       IDA      GRANTS
Promotion and
Information                   100        -        84         16
Institutional
Development                   110        -        25         85
Consultative
Groups                         33        -        33          -
Administration (*)            135      135         -          -
Office equipment               50        -        16         34
Contingencies                  22        -        17          5
----------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                         450      135       175        140
----------------------------------------------------------------
Notes:    (*) Administrative costs include salaries and office rent.  The
cost of office supplies and materials is allocated proportionally
to the operating programs. A possible need for reducing the
Government's financing share will be reviewed at negotiations.



48                                 ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Dlsbuhmmnta
.00       Disbursements of IDA funds would be made against consultant fees
and office equipment. The creation of the NLO is a condition for
disbursement.



HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS FINANCED BY FHIS
Repalr of Schools                        Building, playground, fence, or other   Only schools in operation                         1
Infrastructure used in public schools
Extension or Construction of Schools    Building, playground, fence, or other   Only schools in operation                          1
infrastructure used in public schools
Rapair of Health Centers                 Health Centers                             Only health centers in operation               1
Extenion or Construction of Health       Health Centers                             Equipment and operation to be ensured          1
Centers                                                                             by sponsor
Repair of Day-Care Centers and           Public Day-Care Centers, Orphanages,    Only facilities in operation                      1
Shelters                                 and Shelters                                                                                            o
Extension or Construction of Day-Care   Public Day-Care Centers, Orphanages,    Equipment and functioning mot be                   1
Centers and Shelters                     and Shelters                               ensured by sponsor
Sanitation (Latrines)                    For rural and uarSinal urban areas         Sponsor mist undertake to train                1
beneficiaries
Public Laundries                         Small infrastructure Including             Operation and maintenance to be                3
provision of water and sanitary           ensured by sponsor
facilties
Severege                                 Smrage systems, septic walls,              Includes house conmections                     1
treatent plants
Potable Water                            Repalr or constructlon of tanks, pipes  Excludes house connections                        I
and outlatsl public *ystm
_.
US



HOINDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTENT FUND PROJECT
ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS FINANCED BY FMIIS
Markets                                 Refurbishing of roofs and sanitation.   Rents for use of space to be charged           3
Construction of small markets            by sponsor
Rehabilitation of ruins to protect      Repairs of historical monuments,         Excludes privately-owned monuments and        4
cultural heritage                       archaeological excavations               theaters
Road Imprwvment                         Paved with stones or bricks, sidewalk   Sidewalk paving excluded                       3
borders
Bridges                                 Small urban or rural bridges,                                                          2
pedestrian passages
Road Improvement                        Improvement of embanklments and slopes   Road surface excluded                         2
Drainage                                Drainpipes, canals, ditches, and         Drains and covering of canals,                3
gutters                                  ditches, etc., excluded
Retention Walls                                                                  Economic justification required               3
Irrigation                              Small Irrigation ditches, main and       Piping excluded                               2
secondary canals
Forestation                                                                      Sponsor to ensure maintenance;                4
planting material excluded
Collection Centers                      Silos and warehouses                     Sponsor to ensure operation and               3
maintenance
oo 
I-
*0)
_Q
o 0
Ph~



51                               ANNEX ll
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SOCIAL SERVICES PROJECTS
I.        Obiectives
1.        Honduras is one of Latin America's poorest countries, with per
capita GNP estimated at US$590 for 1990. It is in the midst of a structural
adjustment process that has fundamental implications for the social sectors.
Social indicators in Honduras show that poor health, malnutrition, and
continuing low levels of educational attainment are fundamentally related to
the continuing backwardness of poverty groups, especially those in rural areas
of the country. The GOH has devoted a quarter to a third of its spending to
public education and health each year over the past decade. Both sectors
absorb substantial proportions of resources from the public sector budget (28Z
in 1988). Taken together9 the Ministries of Health and Education and
semiautonomous institutions are budgeted to spend about 14Z of the GDP.
However, current programs do not provide sufficient benefits to the poor. The
sectoral balance that currently exists is one of the causes of underserving
the poorest groups. Within the health and education sectors, resource
allocation is inefficient and inequitable, emphasizing curative care,
technical and higher education that serve middle income groups. The figures
of Annex 1 present selected social indicators for Honduras.
2.        The Ministries of Health and Education recognize that today,
programs are not targeted to the poor, the young, or to rural areas. To avoid
a deterioration of social indicators during the period of economic adjustment,
they recognize PHIS's role as a social safety net for the poor which could
complement existing service gaps at the local level through subprojects
carried out by NGOs, local communities, and the private sector.
3.        In line with this concept, the target populations for the FEIS
subprojects in the social sectors have been defined as follows: (a) pregnant
and lactating mothers, and children aged 0-5 years for health and nutrition
subprojects; (b) children of pre-primary and primary school age (5-12 years)
for education subprojects.
4.        In the health and nutrition sector, the objectives of the FHIS are
to: (i) contribute to the reduction of mortality, morbidity and malnutrition
among children aged 0 to 5 years; and (ii) contribute to the reduction of
maternal mortality through the increase in the provision of maternal and child
primary health care. In the education sector, the objectives of the PBIS are
to: (i) increase the coverage of targeted early childhood programs for
children under 6 years including nutrition, health and hygiene, early
stimulation and pre-school education; and (ii) support MOE programs for
primary education (children aged 7-12 years).



52                               ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
II.       Proiect Components
5.        The FHIS would finance the following types of subprojects:
6.        Health and Nutrition Prolects:  (a) support to lactarios (feeding
places for mothers and pre-school children) including nutritional support,
growth monitoring, nutritional surveillance and nutrition education programs;
(b) support to food production in community farms (microaranias and huertas);
(c) development of primary health care training programs for community
midwifes (Darteras emoiricas), health promotors and community health
guardians, including provision of basic tools and medicines; (d) vaccination
programs; (e) support to primary health care facilities including furniture
and equipment and maintenance programs for the cold chain (vaccines); and (f)
support to community health programs such as vector control, environmental and
health education.
7.        Education Proiects:  (a) targeted school breakfast program via
parent associations provided that they: (i) use local foods; and (ii)
transfer monetary resources to executing agencies for food purchase and
preparation at the community level; (b) targeted provision of educational
materials, a small school library and teacher training on management of class
time, use of materials, etc.; (c) provision and repair of school furniture
(bipersonal desks and chairs); and (d) targeted early stimulation and pre-
primary non-formal education programs consisting of training local personnel,
and providing teaching materials and furniture for pre-primary centers, and
nutritional assistance (growth monitoring and nutrition education).
III.      Amproach and Targeting
S.        To target resources for social projects, FHIS identifies the
poorest groups among potential beneficiaries using the most illustrative
indicators of extreme poverty in Honduras at the municipal level: child
malnutrition rates, access to clean water and latrines. FHIS ranks
departments and municipalities according to the above mentioned indicators,
and allocates more resources to poorer municipalities. In addition, as part
of the criteria to select beneficiaries, the social sectors program will use
some of the following eligibility indicators at the community level: (i)
infant mortality rates, acute respiratory infections and diarrhea incidence
among children under 5 years; (ii) malnutrition (severe) among children aged 0
to 5 years; (iii) availability of potable water and latrines; (iv) percentage
of school age children (7 to 12 years) attending school; and (v) existing
social infrastructure: CESAMO, CESAR, health promotor, health guardian,
primary school (grades, teachers).
IV.       Conditions and Reauirements for Suboroiects
9.        Besides ensuring that geographical and eligibility criteria are
met, FBIS field staff (promotors) will be responsible for ensuring that social
sector subprojects meet the following conditions: (a) community participation
through money, kind or labor. This is one of the essential components of the
social sector subprojects to be presented for FHIS financing because it: (i)
mobilizes additional re# arces; (ii) indicates effective demand for health,



53                               ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
nutrition and education services through willingness to pay; and (iii)
augments the sustainability of projects; (b) contribution of sponsoring agency
because this: (i) would induce agencies to reveal their own priorities for
funding; (ii) would give executing agencies more of a stake in the project;
and (iii) would discourage the creation of non viable agencies from simply
taking advantage of the FHIS; and (c) prolects are sust inable, meaning that a
combination of local, third party, and/or public sector agencies are committed
to support recurrent costs of the project beyond PHIS support.
10.       As a general principle for social services subprojects, FHIS will
require a minimum of 5% counterpart financing from beneficiaries (for example
in land, physical facilities, materials, money or time). Counterpart
financing of up to 10% is also required from the other participating
institutions (municipalities, line ministries, NGOs) on an individual
subproject basis.
V.        The Cycle of Subvroiects
11.       Identification and Preparation.  The field staff (promotors) of the
FHIS play an active role in the identification and assistance to preparation
of social sector subprojects. They inform communities and potential executing
agencies about the alternative social sector subprojects PHIS might finance,
and provide advice and technical assistance. One of their duties is to
complete the community profile filled up by the requesting agency. They are
responsible for ensuring coordination with relevant public sector agencies,
including arrangements for the sustainability of the subprojects beyond IHIS.
12.       Evaluation.  In approving social sector subprojects the FHIS
follows the following steps: (a) verification that targeting criteria are met
including: (i) location in high priority departments and municipalities; (ii)
beneficiary groups to which assistance would be directed; and (iii) expected
impact on target population; (b) assurance that the project is sustainable by
obtaining written agreements by relevant public sector agencies,
municipalities or others to pick up recurrent costs beyond PHIS; and (c)
evaluation of the prospective executing agency. The FHIS evaluates: (i) the
efficiency of the subproject's purpose; (ii) the implementation capacity of
the agency submitting the application; (iii) the agency's financial state;
(iv) the cost of the subproject independently of the estimates presented by
the agency; and (v) the ratio of administrative costs over total project cost.
13.       Implementation.  Social services subprojects are typically carried
out by NGOs. Each subproject would be covered by a three party contract among
IHIS (as the funding agency), the executing agency, and the supervising agency
(if it exists). Upon subproject approval, FHIS establishes a project account
and authorize the disbursement of an advance to start up the subproject.
Schedule and conditions for subsequent disbursements are established at
subproject approval. Subproject contracts provide for suspension of
disbursements if the purposes of the subprojects are not being achieved or
funds are being diverted from the agreed activities.



54                               ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
Supervision and Monitoring. FHIS supervisors visit subprojects in
the field regularly to verify that funds are being used for the purpose for
which they were intended. Visits are more frequent if special problems arise
or are suspected. The supervision of social sector projects reviews the need
for technical assistance to support and strengthen both community
organizations and NGOs' executing capacity. In addition, quarterly
operational audits include a sample of social sector projects.
14.       Ex-post EvaluAtion.  The demonstration of FHIS's accomplishments
requires precise measurements ex-ante and ex-post. Evaluations of the results
achieved by completed subprojects would be carried out. These evaluations
would use the baseline information gathered at the time of project preparation
in the appraisal form, and estimate the changes in the basic indicators once
the subproject is completed, such as the number of midwifes trained, the
number of school breakfasts provided and the increase in school attendance
rates.
VI.       Social Services Menu of Subvroiects
15.       A summary of the IBIS social services subprojects is provided
below.
Nutrition
Lactarios
School Breakfasts
Community Farms
Health
Primary Health Care Training
Traditional Birth Attendant
Health Promotors
Health Guardians
Vaccination Programs
Support to PHC Facilities
Furniture & Equipment
Community Training in Health and Basic Sanitation
Cold Chain
Education
Pre-Primary Programs
Primary Programs
Educational Materials, Libraries, Teacher Training
School Furniture
New Desks/Chairs
Repair of Desks/Chairs



SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
RESULTS OF PROMOTION EFFORTS IN THE 80 POOREST MUNICIPALITIES
:NI    C       IP:|TE             APPRVED9  :           X  APRO.VED         PERtT: Dot
(US$)         .(US)        8     UDGETED         INDEX
I  San Francisco de Coray          22,252          45,411         204              73.6            VALLE
2  San Marcos de la                36,166          42,792         118              71.1           INTIBUCA
Sierra
3  Santa Cruz                      25,559          41,213         161              70.1           LEMPIRA
4  Gualcince                       57,405          56,076          98              69.8           LEMPIRA
5  Vado Ancho                      21,294          22,331         105              68.8          EL PARAISO
6  Esquipulas del Norte            25,804          15,185          59              68.0           OLANCHO
7  Curaren                         76,880          65,602          85              66.8          F. MORAZAN
8  Iriona                          55,346          11,319          20              66.8            COLON
9  Belen                           19,728          42,942         218              66.8           LEMPIRA
10  Brus Laguna                     81,550         119,588         147              66.7          GRACIAS A
DIOS
11  Yocon                           77,846          64,569         83               66.3           OLANCHO
12  Candelaria                      36,523          65,952         181              66.2           LEMPIRA
13  San Juan                        18,879          34,006         180              66.2            LA PAZ
14  La Libertad                     12,770          57,931         454              66.2          F. MORAZAN
15  Dolores                         19,030          19,976         105              66.1           INTIBUCA
16  San Andres                      55,015          65,627         119              65.3           LEMPIRA
17  El Triunfo                     184,511        288,089          156              65.3          CHOLUTECA
18  Piraera                         65,167          88,933         136              65.1           LEMPIRA
19  Virginia                        17,493          31,654         181              64.2           LEMPIRA
20  Yamaranguila                   109,387          88,764         81               64.0           INTIBUCA
0Q
21  San Manuel Colohete             51,546          37,826         73               63.7           LEMPIRA
22  Guata                           70,165          22,749         32               63.5           OLANCHO      o
23  Santa Rosa de Aguan             24,296          16,336         67               63.4            COLON       Ph
24  El Rosario                      28,897          20,697         72               63.2           OLANCHO
25  Gualaco                        113,538          63,980         56               63.1           OLANCHO



. _ ......)'.(08$)_                                                    . ....... _...__...._.._..__. 
26  Liure                           56,311          30,241          54              62.3          EL PARAISO
27  Colomoncaus,                    81,420         104,732         129              61.8           INTIBUCA
28  Concepcion de Mari            146,502          70,955          48              61.3          CHOLUTZC&
29  Puerto Le pira                 122,325         179,264         147              61.0          GlACIAS A
30  Alubaren                        21,170          45,579         215              61.0          T. HORAU U
31  Marcovia                       189,259         147,976          78              60.9          CHOLUTICA
32  Concepcion                      27,809          21,789         78               60.4            COPN
33  Manguile                        59,712          35,397         59               60.1           OLANCRO
34  Taxiguat                        47,041          25,337         54               60.$          EL PARATSO
35  Langue                          94,878         108,486         114              60.4            VALLE
36  Jano                            20,750           8,199         40               60.1           OLANCHO
37  Guajiquiro                      62,207          57,615         93               60.0            LA PAZ
38  San Miguelito                   21,830          30,758         141              59.7           IDTIBUCA
39  Mapulaca                        20,656          48,918         237              59.7           LENPIRA
40  Reitoca                         40,765          70,392         173              59.4         F. HORAZAN
41  San Antonio de Flores           30,165          19,001         63               59.2          CHOLUTECA
42  Alauca                          40,779         126,220         310              58.9         EL PARAISO
43  Marale                          36,758          84,749         231              58.9         F. MDRAZAN
44  Santa An&                       45,617          24,388         53               58.5            LA PAZ
45  Yarula                          27,650         31,556          114              58.5           LA PAZ
46  San Jose                        18,984         28,545          150              57.7          CHOLUTECA
47  Santa Elena                     38,698          49,769         129              57.7           LA PAZ
48  Valladolid                      22,657          42,132         186              57.6          LUMPIRA
49  Dulce Nombre de Culni          132,478         26,621          20               57.0           OLANCHO
50  San Francisco                   37,671          43,430         115              57.0           LEMPIRA
51  Concepcion                      55,105          61,546         112              56.9           INTIBUCA
0,
52  Lepaterique                     53,416          86,557         162              56.8         F. HORAZAN    o 
53  r7lores Merendon                 8,681          17,295         199              56.6         OCOTEPEQUE
54  San Esteban                    125,173           3,557          3               56.4           OLANCHO
55  Ojojona                         34,236          72,115         211              56.0         F. MORAZAN
56                                                                 124



57  Las Trojes                     153,446          25,718          17              55.6         EL PARAISO
58  Apacilagua                      51,646          57,944         112              55.5          CHOLUTECA
59  Mercedes de Oriente              5,997          41,573         693              55.5           LA PAZ
60  Caridad                         19,299          17,869         93               55.1            VALLE
61  Limon                           31,658          14,215         45               55.0            COLON
62  Namasigue                      104,992         156,966         150              54.9          CHOLUTECA
63  San Miguelito                    9,535          68,250         716              54.9         F. MORAZAN
64  Masaguara                       54,239        35,980           66               54.9          INTIBUCA
65  San Juan                        28,087          44,802         160              54.9          INTIBUCA
66  Soledad                         55,213          40,927         74               54.8         EL PARAISO
67  El Corpus                      122,861          79,247         65               54.8          CHOLUTECA
68  San Juan Guarita                15,346          31,036         202              54.6           LEMPIRA
69  San Isidro                      19,421          40,641         209              54.4          CHOLUTECA
70  San Sebastian                   35,658          36,669         103              54.0           LEMPIRA
71  Copan Ruinas                   146,052         158,700         109              53.9            COPAN
72  La Campa                        35,347          54,766         155              53.7           LEMPIRA
73  Santa Maria                     38,220          40,817         107              53.7           LA PAZ
74  Nacaome                        213,393         390,006         183              53.4            VALLE
75  Cabaflas                        11,118          18,345         165              53.4           LA PAZ
76  San Antonio                     28,482          27,463         96               53.2          IUTIBUCA
77  Morolica                        25,331          36,440         144              53.0          f.'HOLUTECA
78  Alianza                         42,759         56,576          132              53.0            VALLE
79  San Juan de Opoa                39,622         61,798          156              52.9            COPAN
80  Intibuca                       148,881        202,101          136              52.9          INTIBUCA
oe 
O >4
: I



HOIDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STATUS OF WATER COtMITTEES IN CHARGE OF WATER AID SANITATION PROJECTS
(February 29, 1992)
Santa Lucia, Francisco Morazan  Potable System          260.0   Lps. 6, 12,      J.A.A.                                X
20, 10, 15
EL Paralso, E1 Paraiso           Sewerage System        612.0   Lps. 5, 8, 10,  Municipality                                         %
12, 40
Trojes, E1 Paraiso               Sewerage System        978.0   Lps. 3           J.A.A.                                              1
Catacamas, Olancho               Potable System         730.7   Lps. 8           SANAA                                               X
Nina. de Oro, Co.ayagua          Potable System         898. 0   Lps. 4          J.A.A.                                X
Napulaca, Lempira                Potable System         285.1   Lps. 4           J.A.A.                                X
Candelaria, Lempira              Potable System         135.3   Lps. 3           J.A.A.                               X
grandiLqtue, Lempira             Potable System         248.4   Lps. 4.5 unicipality                                                X
Guarita, Leupira                 Potable System         309.2   Lps. 2           J.A.A.                 X
Terlaca, Lempira                 Potable System         155.5   Lps. 2           J.A.A.                 X
Junigual, Lempira                Potable System          40.7   Lps. 0.5         Local Committee                      X
F1 Sitlo, Gcarlta, Lempira       Potable System          54.0   Lps. 1.5         Local Committee                      X
Nweva, Ocotepeue                 Potable System       1,419.3   Lps. 5, 0.5    Mlnicipality                           X
Antigna, Ocotepeque              Potable System         211.0   Lps. 5, 0.5      J.A.A.                 X
Santa Fe, Ocotepeque             Potable System         119.7   Lps. 2           Municipality                         X
Dolores Herendon, Ocotepeque    Potable System          177 7                                                         X
San Luis, Santa Barbara          Sewerage System        301.3   Lps. 6+1I         unicipality                                        X
San  licolas, Santa Barbara      Potable System         728.5   Lps. 34 0.75   Municipality                                          X
Trinidad, Santa Barbara          Potable System         348.6   Lps. 6            lunicipality                                       X
Las Vegas, Santa Barbara         Potable System       1,000.0   Lps. 3 + 0.5    Municipality                                         X
Concepcion, Copan                Potable System         234 0                                                                        X
San Antonio, Copan               Potable System         238.8   Lps. 5 + 0.5    J.A.A                                 X
Chalmeca, Copan                  Potable System         135.0   Lps. 3 + 0.5    J.A.A.                                X
Villanueva, Cortes               Sewerage System        744 0   Lps. 6 5         Municipality                                        X
C. Lopez A., Choloma, Cortes    Potable System            0.0   Lps. 4.5         Municipality                                        X K
Norazan, Yoro                    Potable system         700.0   Lpa. 2           municipality                                        K



CiI(UM       , VE                                      PROJE CT.T 0T   fl.9J.  AMOUNT 01.  .   U  ..m CY0..           WA-E     -     T:
~~~~~~a.  . : ::: . t ..                  CO.ST          TAIF            1 ik..:SI. :SX: L ;
0~~~~~~~~~~~~ISZ~ f0 ORATING.:.I
Yoro, Yoro                          Potable System         1,870.0   Lps. 2 + 1          Municipality                                            I
San Francisco de Yojoa              Sewerage System        1,180.0   Lps. 2              S&NIA                                                   X
Marcala, La Pat                     Sewerage System          967.0   Lps. 8              Municipality                                            X
Lamani, Ccmayagua                   Potable System             0.0   Lps. 2.5            J.A.A.                                                  X
Lejamani, Comayaguna                Potable System           406.3   Lps. 2.5 + 0.5   J.A.h.                                     X
Oak Rldge, Islas de la Bahia        Potable System           205.0   Lps. 5, 8, 10    J.A.A.                                     X
Cozen Role, Islas de la Blaia    Potable System              205.0   Lps. 5, 8, 10                                                               X
Mogotes, Francisco Morazan          Potable System            27.4   Lps. 1.5            J.A.A.                   X
Orocunna, Choluteca                 Potable System           447.8   Lps. 1.5            J.A.A.                                  S
Cofradia, Francisco Morazan         Potable System           529.0   Lps. 4              J.A.A.                                                  X
U'
'0
o h



60                                  ANNEX
Page 1 of
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
INFORMAL SECTOR PROJECTS FINANCED BY FHIS
I. Financing of Informal Sector by FHIS
1.      The FHIS provides funds, to be administered by qualified NGOs who woul.d
lend the fundn at market rates to final beneficiaries. When deemed necessary, NGOs
provide technical assistance to final beneficiaries (to be financed by the FHTS
under the form of grants). Financing terms and conditions are included in the
Operational Manual of the FHIS and are summarized below.
Financial Arraneements
2.      Arrangements whereby an NGO acts on behalf of FHIS to undertake lending to
informal sector beneficiaries according to terms and conditions spelled out
in the Operational Manual
Principal Financing Conditions
3.      Loan principal and interest to be repaid to FHIS (or successor of FHIS)
according to an amortization schedule to be specified
4.      NGO will be fully responsible for debt service and required to absorb any
loan losses
5.      Use of funds by NGO for purpose other than those agreed with the FHIS
results in automatic recall of funds by FHIS
AvDroval
6.      Financial Arrangements between EHIS and NGO approved by Operations
Committee of EHIS
7.      Individual subloans approved by management committee of NGO
Taraet Beneficiaries
8.      Small and micro-entrepreneurs in productive and service sectors located in
marginal urban zones and rural zones with high unemployment rates and low
income who do not have access to formal credit at present. Small
entrepreneurs are those whose subprojects have a cost between US$5,000 and
US$10,000. Micro-entrepreneurs are those whose subprojects are less than
US$5,000.
9.      Examples of beneficiaries are shoemakers, handicraft makers, market or
street vendors of food, clothes, utensils, mechanics, hairdressers, small
tire repair shops, small farmers, etc.
10.     Operational Manual includes other parameters to define target beneficiaries
including maximum number of employees, sales per month, according to
sectors



61                                  ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
Requirements for Participating NGOs
Must be properly registered legally
At least three years experience in their field
Adequate administrative and financial structure to undertake loan
appraisal, recovery, and supervision
Satisfactory recovery on existing portfolio (at least 95 percent)
Adequate capacity to provide technical assistance to beneficiaries
Quarterly financial reporting to FHIS
*    Audit by external, private, independent auditors
Proiect Criteria
Loans to final beneficiaries to be appraised according to technical and
financial criteria appropriate for this type of operation
19.     Projects to promote individual and group savings
Size of Loans
20.     Maximum size of loan:  L10,000
Lendint Terms
21.     Repayment Period:  in accordance with the type of activity being financed
(expected to vary between 3 months for working capital to 24 months for
equipment)
Interest Rate: market rate to be applied by NGO, adequate to cover lending
and recovery costs and ensure reasonable net income, as agreed with FHIS
23.     Net income from lending operation to be shared between NGO and FHIS
according to a proportion established between FHIS and NGO
24.     Solidarity group guarantee, (or in some cases fiduciary guarantee) required
from beneficiary
rants for Technical Assistance
Technical assistance to be provided by NGOs to final beneficiaries in
simple administrative, accounting, and technical aspects



62
ANNEX
Page 1 of
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
DOCUMENTS INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT PILE
A.      Selected Reports and Studies Relatins  to the Pro1ect
A.1. Mid-Term Raview of m  S-I
Honduras Social Investment Fund Project (Credit 2212-HO), Mid-Term
Review, January 15, 1992, Report No. 10281-HO.
A.2 mRS Action Plan
PHTS Action Plan for 1992 and 1993 to channel more funds than in the
past to poorer municipalities, based on a poverty index, dated May
1992.
A.3 Staff Appraisal Report of HIS-I1
Honduras Social Investment Fund Project, Staff Appraisal Report dated
February 6, 1991, Report No. 9148-HO.
*    All documents listed in Annex 12 of the above report remain relevant
for the present FmIS-II project.
A.4 Yellow Cover Retort of Review of the PRAF Food Counon Prozrsm
Honduras PRAF Food Coupon Program, Review, Yellow Cover Report dated
May 12, 1992, Report No. 10488-HO.



