Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15755
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2401-HO)
May 24, 1996
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
Average Exchange Rates
1990 L.5.3504 = US$1.00
1991 L.5.4001 = US$1.00
1992 L.5.5401 = US$1.00
1993 L.6.4067 = US$1.00
1994 L.8.5528 = US$1.00
1995 L.9.1445 = US$1.00
1995 SDR 1.00 = US$1.50
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
FIRS           Honduras Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social)
FITS I        Honduras Social Investment Fund 1990-1993
FIRS II        Honduras Social Investment Fund 1994-2002
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
I1MLF         International Monetary Fund
KfW            German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Kreditanstaltfar Wiederaujbau)
MOE           Ministry of Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n PuTblica)
MOH           Ministry of Health (Secretaria de Salud Piblica)
NGO            Nongovernmental Organization
NLO           National NGO Liaison Office (Comisi6n de Enlace Gobierno-Organizaciones no
Gubernam entales)
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PAR            Performance Audit Report
PASI           Informal Sector Credit Program (Programa de Apoyo al Sector Informal)
PCR            Project Completion Report
PRAF           Family Assistance Program (Programa de Asistencia a la Famiilia)
RUTA Social   Regional Unit for Technical Assistance to the Social Sectors
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SEDA           State Secretariat of Environment (Secretaria de Ambiente)
SIF I          Social Investment Fund Project, Credit 2212-HO, June 1991-March 1994
SIF II         Second Social Investment Fund Project, Credit 2401-HO, July 1992-October 1995
SIF III       Third Social Investment Fund Project (FlHIS II Second Stage), Credit 2766-HO, August 1995-
December 1999
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UNICEF         United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................i
PART ONE: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............I
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .........................................3
Implemenltation .................... 3
Project Results .5................... 
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................... 9
lFlactors NJot Generally Subject to Government Control .................... 9
lactors Generally Subject to   Government Control......................................... .9
F       actors Generally Subject to FHIS Confrol ........................................1..
PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY           .........................................                                       11
BANK PERFORMANCE.12 .................
Fdentocation.1 .................2
PreparationeAssistance                      .................                                                  1
A      SLppraisal. ...............12
Supervision ..............12
Overall Performance .............                                                                              13
Issales ..............14
ASSESSMENT OF OURCOME ............................                                                                15
FeraURE OPERATION ........................... 15
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................... 16
PART TWO: STATISTICAL DATA ...........................                                                            17
Appendixes:   A.          Mission's aide memoire
B.      FHIS Contribution to the ICR
C.      Provision of Credit to Micro-Enterprises: The Case of the Honduras
Social Investment Fund Informal Sector Credit Program
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be uscd by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2401-HO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Social Investment
Fund Project in Honduras, for which Credit 2401-HO in the amount of SDR 7.45 million
(US$10.2 million equivalent) was approved on June 26, 1992 and made effective on November
25, 1992.
The credit was closed on October 31, 1995, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on April 12, 1996, at which time a balance of
approximately SDR 29,000 was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID),
the Federal Republic of Germany through the German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (KfW),
other donor agencies, and local participants (including ultimate beneficiaries, municipalities,
NOGOs, and other entities).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Willem Struben, Task Manager, LASHC, of the Latin
American and the Caribbean Regional Office, with the help of Ms. Anna Webb, Messrs. Hans
Haan, Ronald Ridker and Kevin Rost (consultants), and reviewed by Mr. Kye Woo Lee, Human
Resources Sector Leader, and Ms. Kreszentia Duer, Lead Operations Specialist (LADCN). The
borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was undertaken by the completion mission during the week of
January 21, 1996. It is based on material in the project file, in addition to discussions with the
borrower. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by presenting views reflected
in the mission's aide-memoire, compiling statistical data, preparing an evaluation of the project's
implementation, and commenting on the draft ICR. The major cofinancing agencies reviewed the
draft document, and their comments have been incorporated.



Evaluation Summary
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2401-HO)
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Introduction
Since March 1990, the Government of Honduras (GOH) has been carring out an
economic stabilization and adjustment program to correct distortions resulting from past
macroeconomic mismanagement and to lay the foundation for sustained economic growth over
the medium term. The International Development Association (IDA) and other multilateral and
bilateral donors have strongly supported these efforts. In parallel, GOH established the Honduras
Social Investment Fund (FHIS) in 1990, along with the Family Assistance Program (PRAF), to
mitigate the potentially serious impact of economic adjustment on the poor. FHIS was designed
to generate employment and income, and improve social services for marginal groups in rural and
urban areas, mainly through the financing of social infrastructure and social services subprojects.
FHIS has been directly supported by IDA under the First, Second, and Third Social Investment
Fund (SIF) Projects.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Second Social Investment Fund Project (SIF II) were to help GOH
to sustain its poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion during the period of
economic adjustment, while the line ministries strengthened their institutional capacities and
completed policy reform programs, building upon the achievements of SIF I. As a follow-on to
SIF I, the project was to provide additional funding to FH1S to continue to finance subprojects in
social and economic infrastructure, social services, and informal sector credit. An ancillary
component was to provide institutional strengthening through technical assistance to the National
NGO Liaison Office (NLO).
The project objectives were not modified; however, when the government administration
changed in January 1994, the new Government altered the FHIS mandate from short-term social
compensation under FHIS I (1990-1993) to medium-term social investment under FIHIS II (1994-
2002). The FFHS II mandate was to serve as the implementing arm of the line ministries in the
management and financing of priority small and medium-scale social and economic infrastructure
subprojects, as well as to fund priority programs in basic needs. FHIS II retained the original
objectives to support government poverty alleviation efforts through targeting resources to the
poorer areas, and it maintained the same operating procedures.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
Since its inception through October 31, 1995, FHIS approved 7,245 subprojects in the
amount of US$147.7 million, which generated an estimated 1.3 million person/months of
employment. FHIS' social sector investment (10 percent of total social sector expenditures)
helped substantially to reduce sector deficits. Investments in health, water and basic sanitation,
education, and nutrition subprojects (88 percent of total FEHS investments) made an important
contribution to meeting the basic needs of the poor by improving the coverage and conditions of
social services delivery. FHIS had a positive impact on public and private sector development,
and significant program resources (19 percent of total FHIS investments) were allocated to basic
needs subprojects that benefited 600,000 vulnerable women and children. In addition, during
implementation, FHIS increased operational efficiencies, especially in the areas of supervision and
subproject processing.
The implementation of Credit 2401-HO complied with the Credit Agreement in its
fundamental aspects. The largest variations between actual implementation and the plan
presented in the SAR were related to: (a) external funding; (b) domestic contributions, including
GOH and beneficiaries; (c) total project costs; (d) the closing date; and (e) the National NGO
Liaison Office (NLO).
The SIF II project cost of US$82.0 million exceeded the appraisal estimate of US$67.5
million, due to the availability of additional financing. FHJS mobilized US$63.6 million in
external funding, compared to the appraisal target of US$47.5 million, which had a positive effect
on the achievement of the project objectives, permitting a 16 percent program expansion. The
government contribution was US$17.8 million, compared to the projected US$6.7 million. The
contribution by project beneficiaries was expected at appraisal to reach US$3.1 million; it
amounted to US$0.6 million, but this excluded significant donations of land, labor, materials, and
physical facilities. From 1990 to October 1995, FHIS program costs were 91 percent of total
costs, and operating costs averaged nine percent, exactly as planned at appraisal. The project
closing date was extended twice, for a total of nine months, from December 31, 1994 to October
31, 1995, to allow FIlS to complete ongoing subprojects and to fully disburse the credit. The
planned implementation period was about two years; the actual period was three years, mainly
due to the transition in government and FIRS management in 1993/94. Final disbursement took
place on April 12, 1996, at which time a balance of approximately SDR 29,000 was canceled.
The NLO was established by GOH in April 1992, but was not viewed as useful by the
succeeding Government and some NGOs, and NLO activities ceased in 1994. In hindsight, the
NLO may have been charged with too many activities.
Although limited in time, several factors reduced FLIS' effectiveness and efficiency,
including the change in FIIS administration as part of the change in government; the new
mandate which created new work areas; and, paradoxically, the introduction of operational



iii
improvements. In addition, two hurricanes, a cement shortage, rising production costs, and an
energy crisis delayed subproject execution, and led to an increase in FHIS administrative work.
Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory; 70 percent of the investments went to the
poorest municipalities (compared to the planned 75 percent) and 81 percent to social and
economic infrastructure (compared to the planned 67 percent). It also should be noted that PASI
(FHIS micro credit and community bank program) has had the greatest relative impact on the
creation of permanent jobs, and has had numerous, positive socio-economic impacts on
beneficiaries. However, some shortcomings were found. Community participation in subproject
identification, which has a bearing on subproject sustainability, was insufficient, because
municipalities failed to accurately identify community demands. Monitoring and evaluation
functions were weak, partly because of the absence of an integrated computerized data system
and a lack of appreciation on the part of the FHIS' management of the importance of proper
planning and feedback. While the Basic Needs Program included subproject types that respond to
community needs, it suffered from lack of definition.
Bank performance was largely satisfactory, although the temporarily insufficient
supervision may have created some problems that could have been avoided during
implementation. Although performance indicators were established, they were too broad and,
thus, of limited operational value. In addition, the adequacy of FHIS' computerized data system
for monitoring purposes was over-estimated. While the documented trend for FHIS' performance
was positive, in retrospect, the Bank should have conducted a more rigorous supervision mission
during the first quarter of the new FIlS administration to verify performance, which was
temporarily less than satisfactory, owing mainly to the transition between administrations. With
hindsight, FHIS should have requested and the Bank should have offered technical assistance to
accelerate the learning curve of new senior management, and adapt to the new medium-term
mandate.
Project sustainability is likely, given GOH's strong commitment to FIlS and its resolve to
maintain the present level of social expenditures in the face of fiscal austerity and to continue its
poverty alleviation program. However, there is a problem with subproject sustainability, as
reflected in inadequate operation and maintenance of facilities provided or rehabilitated under the
subprojects. FHILS has begun to address this problem through improved collaboration with line
ministries and local governments, as well as the strengthening of its social participation process
designed to secure the participation of all stakeholders in subproject sustainability.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The main finding was that FIRS functioned well as a decentralized mechanism to deliver
development assistance directly to the community level, due to its limited role and objectives, a
high degree of autonomy resulting from exemptions from normal government budgeting,
procurement, and disbursement requirements; efficient subproject processing mechanisms;
targeting mechanisms for the equitable distribution of resources; and operational transparency and



iv
accountability. The operational shortcomings are being and will be addressed under the ongoing
Third Social Investment Fund Project (SIF III), which was approved in July 1995 (Cr. 2766-HO);
it supports FHIS' investment program for the period 1995-1999, as well as efforts to establish a
better social data base and to assist municipalities on environmental matters. Moreover, SIF III
will contribute to project sustainability through the implementation of a broad institutional
development strategy.
The main lessons learned are that: (a) Bank supervision should be intensified during
election years, and following a change in implementing agency management, especially when
management changes are related to a change in government administration; and (b) the Bank and
the implementing agency should agree on detailed, practical key performance and impact
indicators which the project entity and the Bank will use to monitor and evaluate the achievement
of project objectives, while recognizing that the implementing agency may use other indicators for
its own purposes. The Bank should also pay more attention to the information technology
aspects of the monitoring and evaluation system.



Introduction
1.    Since March 1990, the Government of Honduras (GOH) has been carring out an
econornic stabilization and adjustment program to correct distortions resulting from past
macroeconomic mismanagement and to lay the foundation for sustained economic growth over
the medium term. The World Bank and the International Development Association (IDA) have
strongly supported these efforts to restructure the economy.' The potentially serious impact of
economic adjustment on the poor led GOH to establish two innovative safety net programs in
1990, the Honduras Social Investment Fund (FHIS) and the Family Assistance Program (PRAF).
Both programs were viewed as transitional instruments, temporary in nature, that would provide a
rapid response to a critical poverty situation until the line ministries strengthened their institutional
capacities. Both programs were targeted at the poorest and most vulnerable population groups.
FHIS was designed to generate employment and income and improve social services for marginal
groups in rural and urban areas, mainly through the financing of social infrastructure and social
services subprojects. PRAF was designed to provide nutritional assistance through food coupons
to poor pregnant and nursing women, children under five, and primary school children in
departments with the highest malnutrition rates. FHIS has been directly supported by IDA under
the First, Second, and Third Social Investment Fund (SIF) Projects (Cr.2212-HO of US$20.0
million equivalent in 1991, Cr.2401-HO of US$10.2 million equivalent in 1992, and Cr.2766-HO
of US$30.0 million equivalent in 1995). This support is consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) to provide technical advice and financial support for government adjustment
programs and short term safety net operations, as well as for its efforts to introduce sectoral
policy reforms over the medium term. The social sectors have received, and will receive,
considerable IDA support to help improve the poor social indicators in Honduras.2
Part One: Project Implementation Assessment
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the Second Social Investment Fund Project (SIF II), Credit 2401-HO,
were to help GOH to sustain its poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion during the
period of economic adjustment, while the line ministries strengthened their institutional capacities
and completed policy reform programs, building upon the achievements of the First Social
Investment Fund Project (SIF I). Under SIF I, FHIS demonstrated a strong implementation
A Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) of US$90 million was approved in September 1990,
followed by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) of SDR14.3 million in January 1991. As a result of the
reclassification of Honduras as an IDA-only country in late October 1991, it became eligible for the IDA
Reflow Program, and a supplemental credit of SDR23.8 million (attached to the ESAC) was approved in
November 1991.
2   Social sector support was and is provided by the Administration of Rural Primary Education Management
Project (Ln.2804-HO) of US$4.4 million in 1987; the Nutrition and Health Project (Cr.2452-HO) of
US$25 million in 1993; and the Basic Education Project (Cr.2694-HO) of US$30 million in 1995.



2
capacity, and GOH provided adequate counterpart financing. Implementation and disbursement
of the proceeds of the credit were more rapid than anticipated, and thus GOH requested
additional IDA financing. As a follow-on to SIF I, SIF II was to provide additional funding to
FHIS to continue to finance subprojects in social and economic infrastructure, social services, and
informal sector credit (91 percent of total project costs). The credit would not finance FHIS'
operating costs (nine percent). An ancillary project component was to provide institutional
strengthening through technical assistance to the National NGO Liaison Office (NLO) to improve
the ability of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to plan, prepare, and implement
subprojects for poorer communities.
3.    When the government administration changed in January 1994, the new Government
altered the FHIS mandate from short-term social compensation under FHIS I (1990 to 1993) to
medium-term social investment under FHIS 11 (1994-2002). The FHIS II mandate was to serve
as the implementing arm of the line ministries in the management and financing of priority small
and medium-scale social and economic infrastructure subprojects, as well as to fund priority
programs in basic needs, while the ministries focused on policy and norm-setting, the delivery of
services, and the implementation of reform programs.3  The new mandate included greater
emphasis on community participation, coordination with and strengthening of local government,
priority actions in the area of environment, and the development of national level policy for the
microenterprise sector. FHIS II retained the original objective to support government poverty
alleviation efforts through targeting resources to the poorer areas and, additionally, promoted the
government decentralization strategy whereby more government responsibilities were expected to
be passed on to the municipalities.
4.    FHIS II maintained the same approach and operating procedures as FHIS I: (a) national
coverage of all 293 municipalities; (b) a standardized subproject menu of 75 subproject types
whose eligibility criteria and evaluation parameters were established in operational manuals; (c)
demand-driven subproject selection by municipalities, community organizations, NGOs, line
ministries, and other government entities; (d) sectoral and geographical targeting to poorer areas;
(e) subproject processing which included promotion, appraisal, contracting, and supervision; (f)
direct contracting for subprojects up to US$35,000, national shopping, including three price
quotations, for subprojects from US$35,000 to US$50,000, and national competitive bidding for
subprojects of more than US$50,000; (g) computerized data monitoring systems; (h) external
monitoring of FHIS operations by donors and others, including independent external audits; and
(i) observance of Bank policies and procedures governing credits, as well as those for loans and
grants of co-financiers and other external funding sources.
5.    The risk identified at appraisal that "the Government might attempt to alleviate the social
cost of adjustment with excessive speed, and project funds might be poorly used and diverted to
uses not envisaged in the project," was partially substantiated but limited in time. There was a
3   Supported by the Nutrition and Health and the Basic Education Projects.



3
marked increase in FHIS' subproject approval rate during the period leading to the presidential
elections in 1993, which subsequently exceeded FHIS' capacity to process and supervise
subprojects adequately. In the last semester of 1993, FHIS' subproject approval rate increased
from about US$1.5 million in June 1993 to about US$6.5 million in August 1993 (Figure 1), and
144 infrastructure subprojects approved during this period subsequently experienced problems
(para. 27). However, this should be seen in perspective; these subprojects represented 15 percent
of 968 problem infrastructure subprojects executed between 1990 and June 1995,4 and two
percent of 7,245 subprojects approved by FHJS since the beginning. While FIHS under its new
management tried to resolve the problem subprojects, its capacity to do so during the first
semester of 1994 was affected by a major turnover in management, changes made in supervision
staff, an insufficient number of supervisors, and some supervisors whose technical abilities were
inadequate.
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    Based on the extent to which the major criteria established in the SAR were met and on
project results, the achievement of the project objectives was substantial (Table Al: Summary of
Assessments).
Implementation
7.    The implementation of Credit 2401-HO  complied with the Credit Agreement in its
findamental aspects.  The largest variations between actual implementation and the plan
presented in the SAR were related to: (a) external funding; (b) domestic contributions, including
GOH and beneficiaries; (c) total project costs; (d) the closing date; and (e) the National NGO
Liaison Office.
8.    The substantial increase in project financing was due to the ability of FHIS to attract
funding, donor confidence, and the high priority GOH gave to FHIS. FHIS mobilized about 33
percent more external funding than estimated. At appraisal, the target for external funding for
FHIS was set at US$47.5 million, including IDA financing. As of October 1995, FH1S had
received US$63.6 million in multi- and bilateral support from IDA, eight co-financiers, and three
additional external funding sources (Table A6b).5  The projected government contribution was
US$6.7 million, compared to the actual contribution of US$17.8 million. The contribution by
project beneficiaries was expected at appraisal to reach US$3.1 million; it amounted to US$0.6
4   Source: Ana Cecilia Escand6n. "Informe Final de Consultoria, Fondo Hondurelio de Inversi6n Social -
FfS, Credito 2401-HO" (Costa Rica: A&E Decisiones Tecnicas Profesionales, July 1995), 22 pp.
5   The principal sources of additional external financing included: (a) IDA Credit 2542-HO of US$1.5
million; (b) additional co-financing of US$8.7 million from the Government of Germany (KfW), the U.S.
Agency for International Development (USAID), the Govermment of The Netherlands, and UNICEF; and
(c) US$4.0 million from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and others.



4
million, but this excluded significant donations of land, labor, materials, and physical facilities. The
project cost of US$82.0 million exceeded the appraisal estimate of US$67.5 million by 21 percent
(Table A6a). Cost increases were primarily due to a 16 percent expansion of the program as
appraised, coupled with an increase in FHIS' operating costs of 13 percent from June 1992 to
October 1995. From 1990 to October 1995, FHIS' operating costs averaged nine percent,
exactly as projected at appraisal (Table B1). The project closing date was extended twice, for a
total of nine months, from December 31, 1994 to October 31, 1995, to allow FIIS to complete
ongoing subprojects and to disburse the credit. Although the credit closed later than originally
planned, credit disbursement was completed within three years, which is a short period by Bank
standards. The planned implementation period was about two years; the actual period was three
years.6  Final disbursement took place on April 12, 1996, at which time a balance of
approximately SDR 29,000 was canceled.
9.    The appraisal cost estimate for the National NGO Liaison Office (NLO) was US$0.2
million. The NLO was established by GOH in April 1992. Unfortunately, it was not viewed as
useful by the succeeding Government and some NGOs, and NLO activities ceased in 1994.7 The
unused allocation was reallocated to FHIS' subproject financing, apart from US$0.05 million of
the cost of the Regional SIF/NGO Conference in 1995, which resulted inter alia in the creation of
a permanent NGO liaison committee within FHIS.
10.   Special covenants were mainly limited to procedural issues: (a) a FELS action plan for
1992 and 1993 to further improve targeting; (b) a diversified Basic Needs Program portfolio; (c)
an increase in the average size of infrastructure subprojects; (d) an increase in the number of
subproject supervisors; (d) a semi-annual review of standard regionalized unit prices for goods
and works; (e) semi-annual reports to IDA, (f) annual audits of FH[S conducted by private
independent external auditors; (g) special quarterly audits of FHIS operations conducted by
private independent external auditors; and (h) procurement procedures (which differed from
standard government procedures) acceptable to IDA. IDA's limit on the dollar amount that could
be funded by direct contracting did not prove binding, because other donor funds did not have
such restrictions. All conditions were met substantially without undue delays (Table A7).
6   By comparison, the planned implementation period of SIF I was three years; the actual period was three
years and three months.
7   In hindsight, it would appear that the NLO was charged with too many activities: simplify NGO
registration procedures; establish efficient communication channels between NGOs and government
agencies and among NGOs through information collection and dissemination; support institutional
strengthening of NGOs through local and international conferences, seminars, and workshops; and create
consultative groups to remove legal and regulatory barriers to the efficient collaboration of NGOs and
government agencies.



5
Project Results
11.   Since its inception through October 31, 1995, FHIS approved 7,245 subprojects in the
amount of US$147.7 million (Table B2). Seventy-six percent of the number of subprojects were
completed, 21 percent are under execution, one percent are approved for execution, and three
percent were canceled (Table B3). The average infrastructure subproject size was US$16,300
(social infrastructure, US$21,400; economic infrastructure, US$11,000; environmental
infrastructure, US$16,500).  The average size of Basic Needs Program  subprojects was
US$21,200. The average size of Informal Sector Credit subprojects was US$72,700. Project
results should be assessed in terms of (a) sectoral targeting, (b) geographical targeting, (c)
economic impact, (d) poverty reduction, (e) public sector development, (f) private sector
development, (g) community participation, (h) gender concerns, and (i) environmental
considerations.
12.   Sectoral Targeting. Based on actual disbursements from June 1992 to October 1995,
sectoral targets differed somewhat from appraisal estimates (Table A5). The Infrastructure
Program absorbed 81 percent of funds, compared to the appraisal estimate of 67 percent. The
Basic Needs Program received 18.5 percent of funds, compared to the 22 percent appraisal
estimate, but the program cost (US$13.2 million) met the appraisal estimate (US$13.5 million).
The allocation to the Informal Sector Credit Program was less than one percent, compared to the
11 percent target, because the program achieved the self-imposed financial objective of
maintaining the dollar amount of the credit fund, and did not require additional funding (Annex C,
The Provision of Credit to Micro-enterprises: The Case of the Honduras Social Investment Fund
Informal Sector Credit Program).
13.   From  1990 through October 1995, the Infrastructure Program  allocation for 5,878
subprojects was US$113.7 million (77.5 percent of total). The distribution by category was social
infrastructure (82.5 percent), economic infrastructure (16.5 percent), and environmental
infrastructure (less than one percent). Social infrastructure subprojects included rehabilitation and
expansion of primary schools, rural health centers, and child care centers and kindergartens.
Economic infrastructure subprojects included the construction and rehabilitation of bridges,
canals, and sewerage; and the construction, rehabilitation, maintenance, and expansion of roads,
public markets, and drainage systems. Environmental infrastructure subprojects included the
protection of water sources; rural forestation and reforestation; and the construction of access
roads. Infrastructure subprojects were estimated to have generated one million person/months of
employment."
8   The data were based on ex-ante appraisal and therefore are approximations. Although the multiplier
effect of subprojects on jobs in the rest of the economy has not been studied, there is some evidence which
indicates that infrastructure subprojects generated additional employment and income, e.g., women
prepared and sold food at construction sites.



6
14.   From  1990 through October 1995, the Basic Needs Program  allocation for 1,290
subprojects was US$27.4 million (18.5 percent of total). In May 1992, FHIS began to diversify
this program to place more emphasis on a few additional subproject types (in particular school
desks) that would be easily replicable and could be financed on a large scale. FIlS reclassified
four subproject types, as a result, 912 subprojects, totaling US$21.5 million, that had been
approved as social infrastructure subprojects, were disbursed as Basic Needs subprojects.9 The
approved allocation for the remaining 378 subprojects was US$5.9 million. These subprojects
constituted the revised Basic Needs Program, and were grouped in five categories: health (56
percent of subprojects), nutrition (25 percent), attention to special groups (14.5 percent),
preschool and primary education (4.5 percent), and water committee training, less than one
percent.1o These program subprojects benefited approximately 600,000 women and children.
15.   From  1991 through October 1995, the cost of the Informal Sector Credit Program
(Programa de Apoyo al Sector Informal - PASI), including administrative costs, was US$5.6
million (four percent of total). The Bank contributed a total of US$1.7 million.'" PASI financed
77 subprojects to provide credits for microenterprises and community banks. Credits were
channeled through 35 intermediary organizations. As of October 31, 1995, micro-entrepreneurs
received a total of 5,479 credits. The 358 community banks with a total of 8,679 members
received over 20,000 credits. The employment effect of the credits, based on ex-ante subproject
appraisal, was 19,884 sustained jobs and 5,154 jobs created.'2  Although commerce is the most
dominant activity within the informal sector, PASI gave priority to productive activities.
However, the actual allocation for productive activities (60 percent of total) was lower than
planned at appraisal (70 percent). The allocation for services (14 percent) was also lower than
planned (20 percent), but the allocation for small trading (26 percent) was higher than planned (10
percent). The default rate was 4.7 percent over the total portfolio."3 Factors that contributed to
PASI's success were an extensive set of guidelines and manuals, a fully computerized monitoring
9    The four subproject types transferred from the Basic Needs Program to social infrastructure were latrine
construction, primary school desks, preschool desks, and construction and equipment of health centers.
10   Health subproject types were improved health and well-being, basic health training, community health
education, hygiene and sanitation education, and midwife training and equipment. Nutrition subproject
types were maternal enterprises, small farms, family and school gardens, infant feeding programs, and
school breakfasts. Education subproject types were early childhood stimulation and primary education
materials. Attention to special groups included street children, the elderly, the disabled, and indigenous
groups.
PASI received US$1.4 million in November 1990 (as part of Credit 2212-HO), and US$0.3 million in
August 1992 (Credit 2401 -HO). The rest of the financing came from the Government of Honduras and
the Govemnnent of The Netherlands (two grants).
12   Sustained jobs refers to maintaining pre-existing jobs held by informal sector recipients. Jobs created
refers to new employment resulting from micro-enterprise establishment or expansion.
13   The default rate would be 11 percent if it were related to the active portfolio.



7
system (installed in all but of a few of the intermediary organizations), the non-politicized
character of its loans to intermediary organizations, the quality and commitment of its staff,
intensified training and technical assistance activities directed at intermediary organizations and
loan recipients, and its decentralized position within FHIS. PASI has had the greatest relative
impact on the creation of permanent jobs, and has had numerous, positive socioeconomic impacts
on beneficiaries, including increased investments in fixed assets, increased levels of savings, and
strengthening of grass-roots organizations.
16.   Geographical Targeting. As of October 31, 1995, the approved allocation under the
project to the poorer municipalities (the total of three groups, very poor, poor, and deficient),
where 65 percent of the population lives, was 70 percent (compared to 75 percent planned at
appraisal), and regular and acceptable municipalities 30 percent (compared to 25 percent planned,
Table A5). This compares to a cumulative average allocation from 1990 to October 1995 of 61
percent of total resources (US$92.4 million) allocated to the poorer municipalities and 39 percent
(US$58.3 million) to regular and acceptable municipalities (Tables B4 and B5), which means a
substantial improvement in targeting since FHIS' early years. Also, actual targeting is assumed to
have been better, because the municipal poverty index does not take into account the wide
disparities in poverty levels within metropolitan areas, and subprojects were concentrated in the
poorer parts of metropolitan areas (there are no data to substantiate this). In addition, the
majority of subprojects were of a type that would benefit the poor rather than the wealthy,
because the latter tend to use private sector health and education services. Finally, some donors
earmarked funds for subprojects in poor neighborhoods in regular and acceptable municipalities,
which was beyond FHIS' control.
17.   Economic Impact. FHIS investments had a favorable impact on economic indicators by
contributing to government investment and direct employment. From 1990 to 1995, FHIS'
investments were equivalent to 0.76 percent of GDP. In dollar amounts, FHIS' participation
increased from US$8.8 million in 1990 to a projected US$28.5 million in 1995, with a peak
investment of US$36.7 million in 1993 (Table B6). FH1S-financed subprojects generated an
estimated 1.3 million person/months of employment.
18.   Poverty Reduction. FHIS' contribution to reducing social sector deficits was substantial;
it was the only government program to make significant investments in these sectors. From 1990
to 1995, FHIS' participation amounted to 11 percent of total social sector expenditures (Table
B7). FHIS investment in health, water and basic sanitation, education, and nutrition subprojects
(88 percent of total FHIS investment) made an important contribution to meeting the basic needs
of the poor by improving the coverage and conditions of social services delivery. In education
FHIS' covered 24 percent of schools, 25 percent of classrooms, and 68 percent of school desks
(July 1995). In health, it covered 44 percent of health centers, 22 percent of latrines, and 15
percent of sewerage systems, but less that one percent of water systems (July 1995). It should be
noted, however, that while FHIS can help to ameliorate some of the effects of poverty, it cannot
address the underlying causes, and it may prove difficult to keep up with ever-expanding needs.



8
19.   Public Sector Development.  FHIS also had a positive impact on public sector
development.  GOH gained experience with FHIS as a relatively efficient, decentralized
mechanism for delivering development assistance directly to the communities. FHIS' efficiency is
attributed to, among others, its limited role and objectives; a high degree of autonomy resulting
from exemptions from normal government budgeting, procurement, and disbursement regulations;
efficient subproject processing mechanisms; targeting mechanisms for the equitable distribution of
resources; and operational transparency and accountability. These characteristics enabled FHIS
to execute a large share of GOH's overall budget for the social sector.
20.   Since its inception, FHIS established and maintained good working relations with the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and mixed working relations with the Ministry of Education (MOE).
Coordination with these ministries was to ensure that appropriate staff and recurrent budgets
would be available for social infrastructure subprojects and that subprojects would fit within the
overall priorities of the ministries. However, this was not always the case, and subproject
operation and maintenance budgets are still a major problem. The ministries did benefit from the
large-scale, rapid implementation of FHIS-financed subprojects, because they did not have the
institutional capacity to plan, implement, and supervise a high volume of decentralized
infrastructure subprojects. The recent change in the FHIS mandate should result in more effective
collaboration with the ministries and municipalities with respect to social sector planning and the
establishment of investment priorities. FHIS has traditionally worked with municipalities to
improve their subproject preparation capabilities.  Recently, FHIS has begun to assist
municipalities with planning and the use of resources, which are of critical importance for
improved subproject identification and sustainability, particularly because municipalities are
expected to share the cost of subproject operations and maintenance.
21.   Private Sector Development.  FH1S' impact on private sector development was
significant in terms of the volume and amount of work generated.  FIRS investment in
infrastructure was 11 percent of GDP for construction. In the commercial business sector, 82
construction firms and 1,221 independent contractors executed 4,710 FHIS-financed
infrastructure subprojects totaling US$113.8 million, or 75 percent of FHIS' infrastructure
investment from 1990 to 1995. Experience with FHIS improved independent contractors'
administrative and management abilities. In the non-profit private sector, FHIS approved
financing of US$27.7 million (18 percent of total) for 1,048 subprojects executed by 114 NGOs
(Table B8).  The benefits of NGO  participation in FHIS-financed subprojects included
employment opportunities, institutional strengthening, and expansion of NGO activities. FHIS
support to the informal sector was important, because this sector is generally seen as a cradle for
entrepreneurship development, and many of the manufacturing and repair services provided by
micro- and small enterprises are essential for the wider economy, including the modern sector.
22.   Community Participation.  Standardized FHIS subproject types were designed to
promote operational efficiency and facilitate subproject sponsorship on a demand-driven basis. As
of October 31, 1995, municipalities sponsored 74 percent of 7,253 subprojects (US$98.1 million),
MOE sponsored seven percent (US$16.5 million), community groups sponsored seven percent



9
(US$8.0 million), NGOs sponsored six percent (US$9.9 million), and religious groups sponsored
one percent (US$1.1 million) (Table B9). Unfortunately, although it was origirally assumed that
the sponsors were representing the interests of the communities, this was not always the case.
Consequently, FHIS has, since recently, embarked on a major effort to ensure beneficiary
participation at all stages of the project cycle (para. 29).
23.   Gender Concerns. Significant program resources were directed to women. Nearly 19
percent of total funding was used to finance Basic Needs Program subprojects in maternal and
child primary health care, health and nutrition education, and preschool and primary education,
which were targeted to vulnerable groups of women and children. Women were 57 percent of
micro- and small business loan recipients and 94 percent of 358 community bank beneficiaries.
However, the average credit amount which male entrepreneurs received was much higher
(US$750) than for female entrepreneurs (US$460). Also, the average community bank loan was
much smaller (US$100) than the average microenterprise credit (US$800). Nonetheless, the
provision of small credits to women by community banks was important, because such credits for
working capital lead to substantial increases in income, and no other financial institutions offered
such services.
24.   Environmental Considerations. Since 1990, FHIS has conducted short environmental
impact assessments for all subprojects in compliance with its Operational Manual requirement to
determine whether a subproject would adversely affect the environment and indigenous cultures.
Toward the end of the project implementation period and in the context of the preparation of the
Environmental Development Project (Credit 2693-HO), FHlS initiated rigorous environmental
impact assessments for seven key subproject types, as well as started work on the identification of
possible new environmental programs warranting its support. Beginning in January 1996, the
assessments are subject to formal sanction by the State Secretariat of Environment (SEDA).
Major Factors affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
25.   Two hurricanes (September and October 1993) caused substantial subproject execution
delays, the reallocation of approved commitments, and increased staff workload to meet
emergency assistance needs. Also, rising production costs (June 1993 to January 1995) due to
price speculation (cement), a severe energy shortage, and a devaluation in the Lempira
(approximately 40 percent from 1990 to 1995), resulted in subproject execution delays and a
significant increase in FHIS administrative work due to contractors requesting change orders in
their contracts.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
26.   GOH froze L.100 million in budgetary support for FIRS from early-Apr .ilo late-July of
1993, which substantially affected FIHS' ability to commit and disburse subproject financing. In



10
addition, during a three-month period (January - March 1994) between the suspension and
resumption of Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) funding, FHIS could not disburse for
subprojects with IDB financing, which resulted in considerable execution delays for those
subprojects. Even more important, FHIS was originally scheduled to close on March 31, 1994,
but the continuation of ]FHS was approved by GOH on December 24, 1994. The nine-month
uncertainty in 1994 regarding the future of FHIS created an unstable work climate within FHIS,
and the new FHIS Executive Director was occupied with advocacy efforts. In addition, the new
Government changed the FIIS mandate, and new directors were appointed to the Legal, Internal
Auditing, Fund-Raising, Systems, Projects, Special Projects, and Control and Supervision
Departments.  The only department that did not experience a change in director was
Administration and Finance. Also, due to lack of resources for the Basic Needs Program, the
program director moved to the National Social Welfare Board. Finally, environmental and
community participation units were created in response to the new mandate.14 These changes in
senior management, decreases in FRIS' funding, and new responsibilities placed a considerable
strain on FLITS' operational efficiency.
Factors Generally Subject to F1IS Control
27.   The ability of FHIS to attract external fuinding had a positive effect on the achievement of
the project objective in that FLITS mobilized 33 percent more external funding than planned, which
led to program expansion. However, operational efficiency, as seen in the ratio of program
conmiitments to operating costs, declined in 1994. Operating costs rose relative to commitments,
because FHLS did not reduce the number of contract employees during a period of limited
activities; FIRS funding declined from US$42.8 million in 1993 to US$18.1 million in 1994 (
Figure 1). FHIS subproject processing and execution during 1994 were affected by procedural
and technical errors that occurred in the last semester of 1993, which were exacerbated by poor
supervision. Of 968 infrastructure subprojects identified as problematic, 84 percent had legal
contract problems, whichi delayed subproject closure, and 16 percent had both legal and technical
problems. Both kinds of problems were caused, inter alia, by the lack of adherence to existing
subproject technical standards and controls, poor communication between relevant FHIS
departments and with supervisors and contractors, and inadequate computerized data systems to
monitor physical progress, financial status, and supervision and subproject closure reporting."5
These problems were subsequently corrected (para. 35).
14  Fondo Hondurero de Inversi6n Social. "Reporte Sobre el Avance y Aprobaci6n de Subproyectos a la
Asociaci6n Internacional para el Desarrollo del Banco Mundial al 31 de diciembre de 1994," Tegucigalpa,
M.D.C., marzo de 1995.
15  Escand6n. "Informe Final de Consultoria, Fondo Hondurefio de Inversi6n Social - FIIS," op. cit.



11
Project Sustainability
28.   As evidenced by the eight-year extension of FHIS, GOH's commitment to FHIS is strong.
The policy environment is favorable, given GOH's resolve to maintain the present level of social
expenditures in the face of fiscal austerity and to continue its program of poverty alleviation and
human resource development. The effectiveness of FHIS as a decentralized mechanism, capable
of delivering large-scale development assistance, has been demonstrated. Project sustainability is
also affected by the follow-on SIP III, which became effective on November 14, 1995. This
project will contribute to sustainability through implementation of a broad institutional
development strategy, supported by a substantial technical assistance program (para. 42).
29.    There is still a problem with subproject sustainability, however. Until recently, FHIS'
primary focus was to provide a rapid response to what was initially considered a temporary
emergency situation, and sub-projects were frequently ;pushed" by contractors. Subproject
sustainability was not a major consideration, although FHIS did identify considerable operation
and maintenance problems in latrine and water systems subprojects and provided training to
beneficiaries to ensure correct use and maintenance. When the FHIS mandate changed in 1994 to
medium-tern support of social sector infrastructure, the issue of subproject sustainability was
more filly addressed, and FHIS initiated actions to improve the situation.  It increased
collaboration with line ministries and local governments to define priorities, requirements, and
procedures for sector investment, including operations and maintenance at the conclusion of FEIS
subproject financing. Also, it created the Social Participation Unit, which managed a social
participation pilot project. The pilot project, initiated in 1995, aimed to involve beneficiaries in
the full project cycle, starting with subproject identification. The project consisted of 230 training
and education subprojects, which accompanied an equal number of key social infrastructure
subprojects. Project evaluation showed positive, initial results, e.g., a trained maintenance
committee was established for each subproject.  The evaluation concluded that, to ensure
subproject sustainability, all stakeholders--FHIS, line ministries, municipalities, and communities--
must be committed to and educated in participation as a social process; special efforts were
necessary to achieve and evaluate participation; and municipalities should decide upon subproject
priorities in democratic consultation with communities. '6 17
16   The subproject types included health and education infrastmcture repair and rehabilitation, latrine
construction, and water and sewerage systems installation. Source: Fondo Hondureno de Inversi6rn
Social (FHS). "Taller de Evaluaci6n de la Experiencia Piloto de Participaci6n Social," Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, 3 de noviembre de 1995; approximately 100 pp.
17   Further relevant guidance is expected from the sustainability pilot project, financed by IKV, managed y
UDNP, and executed by selected NGOs, of which the results should be available shortly.



12
Bank Performance
Identification
30.   Bank performance in project identification was not an issue since the project was a follow-
on and replication of SIF I.
Preparation Assistance
31.   Although recorded total staff weeks up to appraisal numbered only 3.7 (Table A8), Bank
involvement in preparation was in general satisfactory. The preparation was undertaken mainly by
the staf o ISiL S vith strong technical support provided by the specialists of the Regional Unit for
Technicai Assistance for the Social Sectors (RUTA Social), an international agency established
for strengthening the Central American governments' capacity for sector work and preparation of
social sector projects to be financed by external agencies. The Bank closely coordinated with
RUTA Social in guiding and supporting FHIS' project preparation team. FFHS' management
efficiency had been demonstrated under SIF I, and a good management information system (MIS)
to monitor FHIS operations was thought to be in place. Unfortunately, the latter was not the
case.  Performance indicators covered general programming and targeting, implementation,
project costs and financing, procurement, supervision and reporting, auditing, and disbursements,
but these indicators did not provide sufficient detail for operational use.  In addition, the
indicators cnt1d noJ be fully monitored, because the MIS capacity was over-estimated (para. 36).
Appraisal
32.   Bank performance in project appraisal was also in general satisfactory. The project design
was adequate to meet the major objective. Correct appraisals were made with regard to the
government commitment, FHIS' physical implementing capacity and experience, the financial plan
and its amount, and the recognition of the project risk. The appraisal only did not recognize the
insufficient MIS capacity. From appraisal through Board approval, total staff weeks numbered
14.2.
Superv'ision
33.   Project supervision was deficient for part of the project implementation period. 'However,
all documentation regarding FHIS' performance was positive, and it was only during the first
preparation mission for SIF III in October 1994 that the Bank started to realize the existence of
implementation problems in a variety of fields. 18 More staff weeks should have been spent
18   The Project Completion Report (PCR) for SIF I found that the project exceeded most of its targets and that
project implementation proceeded much more rapidly than anticipated at appraisal. The reports of
supervision missions in March, September, and October 1993, as well as February 1994 showed no
significant problems in all mandatory and other rating categories. The niid-term review conducted in late
March-early April 1993 concluded that the FEHIS was performing well and that project outcomes met



13
especially in the field on this and the SIF I projects. Total staff weeks for supervision numbered
65.3, including 25.4 field staff weeks (combined with the supervision of SIF I and other education
and health projects), averaging some 22 staffweeks per year, including 8 field staff weeks. In
hindsight, the Bank should have conducted at least one substantial supervision mission in early-
1994 to guide the new FHIS management and to verify performance (para. 34).
Borrower Performance
Overall Performance
34.   FHIS' showed strong ownership and leadership in project preparation, since this project
was a follow-on of the successfully implemented SIF I project. FHIS' performance in project
implementation was also satisfactory through early 1993, when its performance started to
deteriorate for a while, due to: (a) the uneven transition between administrations, including the
temporarily high subproject approval rate in the period prior to the presidential elections in
November 1993, which subsequently created problems with subproject execution and supervision;
(b) changes in senior management during the first year of FHIS II; (c) the change in the FHIS
mandate which inter alia created new work areas (environment, local government, and social
participation); and (d) paradoxically, the introduction of operational improvement measures.
Elements not subject to FHIS control also adversely affected implementation. All of these factors
combined appear to have reduced FHI1S' effectiveness and efficiency during 1994, even extending
into 1995. In retrospect, FHIS should have requested and the Bank should have offered technical
assistance to facilitate a smoother transition between administrations, to accelerate the learning
curve of new senior management, and to adapt to the new mandate. Only in October 1994 did
FEHS' management realize the scope of its problems, and request advice and assistance from the
Bank and IDB.
35.   In 1995, FHIS improved subproject processing, execution, and supervision, and operating
manuals were revised accordingly. The number of contracts simultaneously awarded to a single
contractor was limited to six in the same geographical area and to a total of no more than
US$165,000. Both the increase in subproject size and the limit on the maximum multiple contract
amount to a single contractor provided inducements for national shopping, and aimed to reduce
the share of direct contracting. Direct contracting was justified initially to achieve fast subproject
execution; however, the contracting industry has since then strengthened, and FlHIS now intends
to limit direct contracting to 40 percent in 1998, compared to 63 percent in July 1995. The
formal closing of subprojects, a long-standing problem, was improved through the adoption of
new policies governing contracts, costs, and supervision. Contractors are now not eligible for new
contracts until existing contracts are closed, which provides a strong incentive for contractors to
intended objectives during the first phase of project implementation. OED's December 1994 Performance
Audit Report of STF I and SIF II also found in general that the credits had been relatively problem-free.
However, the June 1995 Staff Appraisal Report of STF III described a range of operational problems
originating in late-1993, and first noticed by the Bank in October 1994.



14
finish subprojects. The regionalized unit cost index, updated every six months, permitted the
analysis of costs throughout the subproject cycle and the revision of contract costs if necessary.
Contracts included an inflation clause, which eliminated the administrative work and delays
created by change orders (para. 25). Supervisors were assigned to subprojects in the same
geographical area, and the number of supervisors was linked to subproject size and type: one
supervisor per 20-30 subprojects up to a maximum of US$35,000 each, and one to three
supervisors per subprojects of more than US$35,000 each. Supervisors were also given increased
logistical support. Subproject data was computerized, and data systems for the physical and
financial management of subprojects were integrated.
Issues
36.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation functions continue to be weak.
Monitoring functions are particularly hampered by the continuing lack of a fully operational
integrated computerized data system, although the systems for physical and financial subproject
monitoring were recently integrated. This limits FHIS' financial analysis and planning capacity and
other types of data analysis. In addition, the Accounting Unit and the Systems Departments
apparently do not apply the same concepts for project costs and financing as the PASI system;
consequently, PASI's costs and financing data vary widely; the Systems Department reported a
US$9.6 million allocation for PASI, whereas PASI reported US$5.6 million in financing. Also,
the computer program (MacIntosh) used by FFHS is not found elsewhere in Honduras; thus, it is
difficult to find qualified computer technicians. All of this is now being addressed.
37.   Subproject monitoring and evaluation also give insufficient attention to subproject
targeting, impact, and quality. For example, the extent to which Basic Needs Program benefits
reached the target groups cannot be determined, because the data base cannot correlate program
subprojects with municipal poverty levels or disaggregate beneficiaries by gender, and the
calculation of beneficiaries was ex-ante. The calculation of PASI beneficiaries was also based on
ex-ante subproject appraisal, and not on the actual data regarding beneficiaries. Figures regarding
employment generation also need to be interpreted with some caution. These data are derivative;
they are based on calculations using subproject contractor payrolls and average execution time of
projects. Subproject quality is reported as generally good, but little systematic information exists
to support this assessment. Monitoring and evaluation will be improved through early actions
under SIF III (para. 42).
38.   Given the change in the FHIS mandate to infrastructure support, the question arises as to
whether FHIS or the authority responsible for subprojects at the conclusion of FHIS financing
(line ministries, other government entities, municipalities) should be charged with subproject
impact evaluation, which, in any event, would require the identification and monitoring of
appropriate, measurable indicators in addition to beneficiary assessment. This, again, is now
being pursued under SIF III.



15
39.   Basic Needs Program. The Basic Needs Program still suffers from lack of definition. A
FIIS proposal to create education subproject packages that would include construction, school
desks, and didactic materials has merit, because it would integrate education subproject activities.
FHIS should concentrate on subproject types which respond to community needs, fit within the
planning priorities of the line ministries and have low recurrent costs, and whose benefits can be
measured. Current subprojects that meet these requirements are community health training, basic
sanitation education, midwife training, and water systems administration committee training.
40.   Horizontal Organizational Expansion. The issue of horizontal organizational expansion
is raised for future analysis. Increased decision-making authority on the part of departmental
directors was reported to have improved operational efficiency, but the line of command may be
at risk due to horizontal organizational expansion, where the definition of responsibilities,
accountability, and performance supervision may be imprecise. Further study is needed to
determine how well FHIS internalizes policy and program changes throughout its operations and
whether donor financing of special projects which become new units within FHIS (environment,
social participation, women and construction) is a contributing factor. This is being pursued with
technical assistance under SIF III.
Assessment of Outcome
41.   As detailed in the preceding paragraphs, the overall project outcome was satisfactory.
The project achieved its major objectives with only a few shortcomings, and subject to further
progress on subproject sustainability, project sustainability is likely.
Future Operation
42.   SI III supports the FHIS investment program for the period 1995-1999, as well as efforts
to establish a better social data base and to assist municipalities on environmental matters. FEIIS
has an agreed program and budget for 1996. The indicators by which the project can be
monitored and evaluated will include a full set of performance and impact indicators that will
cover the efficiency and quality of FHIS subprojects, the administration and financial efficiency of
FHIS, the focus of FH1S investments, and the impact of FHIS subprojects. Current monitoring
and evaluation functions will be improved through a full implementation of the data system and
adjustments in the methodologies used for ex-ante evaluation, elaboration of the indicators FIlS
uses to provide information on targeting, operational efficiency, and subproject quality and
impact, the compilation of semi-annual progress reports based on the monitoring indicators, and
periodic in-depth evaluations of the impact of FHIS. Additional, systematic promotion efforts will
be undertaken by FIlS to ensure that FHIS' investments better reflect the demand from the final
beneficiaries.  The issues identified in this report will be further addressed during the
implementation of SIF III.  The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) conducted a



16
performance audit of SIF I and SIF I1.19, and its recommendations were reflected in the design of
SI IIL.
Key Lessons Learned
43.   Positive Lessons.  FHIS applied lessons learned from experience, and in so doing,
achieved increased efficiencies, notably in supervision and subproject execution, and
improvements in the areas of subproject sustainability; sector planning, priorities, and
interinstitutional coordination; and institutional development. It should also be noted that FHIS
already shared its lessons learned on social participation and on cooperation with NGOs with
other social investment fund projects at an international seminar in Roatan (Honduras) in
November 1995.
44.   Social participation is essential for sub-project sustainability. The results to date show
that subproject sustainability required a social participation process that seeks open consultation
with communities on their needs and priorities and involvement in subproject operations and
maintenance. The progress of this process is slower than that of physical works, because it
implies a change in attitude not only on the part of communities, but also municipalities and FHIS
itself To be effective, the process has to be integrated at all levels through training and
education. While true social participation may take longer to achieve, it is likely to be more cost-
effective over the long term.
45.   Negative Lessons. Changes in the implementing agency management require additional
Bank support. The change in government administration led to a change in the FHIS management
and mandate which, in turn, significantly affected FHIS operations. Bank supervision should have
been intensified prior to and llowing a change in FHIS management, especially because these
management changes were related to a change in government administration. In the future, the
Bank should assess the technical assistance needs of new management in a more thorough and
timely manner, and provide assistance when required.
46.   The Bank and the implementing agency should agree in advance on detailed and practical
key performance and impact indicators which the Bank will use to monitor and evaluate the
achievement of project objectives, while recognizing that the implementing agency may use other
indicators for its own purposes. In addition, the Bank should pay more attention to the
information technology aspects of the monitoring and evaluation system.
19   World Bank. Performance Audit Report, Honduras, Social Investment Fund Projects I and II (Credits
2212-HO and 2401-HO), December 30, 1994.



17
Part Two: Statistical Data
A.   General Statistical Data
Table Al: Summary of Assessments
Table A2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table A3: Project Timetable
Table A4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table A5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table A6a: Project Costs
Table A6b: Project Financing
Table A7: Status of Legal Covenants
Table A8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table A9: Bank Resources: Missions
B.   FHIS Project Data
Table B 1: Amount and Uses of Funds by Year
Table B2: FHIS Investment by Program
Table B3: Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Subproject
Status
Table B4: FHIS Investment by Municipal Poverty Index (percent)
Table B5: FHIS Investment by Municipal Poverty Index (US$ million)
Table B6: FHIS Participation in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
Table B7: FHIS Participation in Social Sector Expenditures
Table B8: Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Type of
Executors
Table B9: Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Type of
Soliciting Agency
Table B1O: FHIS Staffing
Figure 1: FHS Approved Financing and Disbursements



18
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2401-HO)
Table A.1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial      Partial        Negligible
Sector Policies                                    X
Institutional Development                          X
Physical Objectives                X
Poverty Reduction                                  X
Gender Issues                                      X
Public Sector Management                           X
Private Sector Development         X
B. Project Sustainability              Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory
Identification                                     X
Preparation Assistance                             X
Appraisal                                          X
Supervision                                        XI
Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
D. Borrower Performance             Satisfactoryv
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                     XI
Covenant Compliance                                X
E. Assessment of Outcome                                 X
Except for the period just prior to the elections and immediately following the change in management.
Table A2: Related IBRD Loans and IIDA Credits
Credit No. and Project         Purpose             Year of Approval             Status
Name
Ln.2804-HO: Education III  Rural Primary Education   FY87                 Closed
Cr.2212-HO: Social        Social Sector           FY91                    Closed
Investment Fund (SIF)     Development
Cr.2452-HO               Nutrition and Health     FY93                    Open
Nutrition/Health
Cr.2766-HO Environmental  Environmental          FY95                     Open
Development               Development
Cr.2694-HO Basic         Basic Education          FY95                    Open
Education
Cr.2693-HO SIF III        Social Sector           FY96                    Open
Development                                    I _



19
HONDURAS
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2401-HO)
Table A3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Planned Date                     Actual Date
Identification                               1/22/91                          1/22/91
Preparation                                  1/22/91                          1/22/91
Appraisal                                   2/20/92                          2/20/92
Negotiations                                 5/4/92                           5/4/92
Board Presentation                           6/25/92                         6/25/92
Signing                                     7/29/92                          7/29/92
Effectiveness                               11/25/92                         11/25/92
Midterm Review                                2/93                             4/93
Project Completion                           6/30/94                         6/30/95
Loan Closing                                12/31/94                         10/31/95
Table A4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY93           FY94            FY95           FY96
Appraisal Estimate          5.5           10.2            N.A.            N.A.
(IJSSM)
Actual (USSM)               4.75           7.76            9.26           10.66
Actual as % of             86             76              91             100
estimate
Date of final                                                            4/12/96
disbursement                                               .
Table A5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in              Estimated                   Actual
SAR/President's Report
1. Total Funding of FHIS (US$ million)                      67.5                      82.0
2. FHIIS Investments by Category (%)
a) SociallEconomic Infrastructure                        67.0                      81.0
b) Social Services (basic needs)                         22.0                      18.5
c) _  Micro Credit                                       11.0                       0.5
3. FHIS Investments by Poverty Allocation (%/).
a) Three Poorest Categories of Municipalities            75.0                      70.0
b) Two Better off Categories of Municipalities           25.0                      30.0



20
Table A6a: Project Costs
(Credit 2401-HO)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ million)                         (US$ million)
Item                Local      Foreign       Total        Local       Foreign       Total
_ Costs       Costs                     Costs       Costs
Social Investment Fund
A. Subprojects
1. Infrastructure                29.51       11.51        41.02        45.00        12.70       57.70
2. Basic Needs                   11.45         2.02       61.22        11.23         1.98        13.21
3. Informal Sector                5.04         1.69        6.73         0.29         0.07        0.36
Subtotal      46.00        15.22        61.22       56.52        14.75        71.27
B. Operating Costs
1. Salaries                       2.82        0.00         2.82         3.94         0.30        4.24
2. Professional & Technical       0.15         1.37         1.52        0.83         0.44         1.27
Services
3. Promotion and Advertising      0.51         0.00        0.51         0.62         0.05         0.67
4. Travel                         0.17         0.16        0.33         0.66         0.06        0.73
5. Rent, Maintenance, etc.        0.72         0.18        0.90         3.80         0.05        3.85
Subtotal       4.37         1.71         6.08        9.86         0.90        10.76
Subtotal FHIS       50.37        16.93       67.30         9.86         0.90       82.03
NGO Liason Office
1. Institutional Strengthening    0.15        0.5          0.20         0.00         0.00        0.00
Total (1)                        50.52        16.98       67.5         66.38        15.650.     82.03
Source: Accounting Department/Financial Statements, FHIS
Note: Data from June 25, 1992 through October 31, 1995.
(1) Net of duties and taxes



21
Table A6b: Project Financing
(Credit 2401-HO)
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ million)                            SS million)
Source               Local       Foreign        Total       Local       Foreign        Total
Costs       Costs                     Costs         Costs
IBRD/IDA (CR 2401-HO)              8.20         2.00        10.20                                   9.56
IBRD/IDA (Cr. 2452-HO)                                                                              1.52
Cofinancing Institutions
IDB                               20.50        11.00        31.50                                  28.38
KfW                                4.00         2.00         6.00                                  il142
EEC                                3.20         0.80         4.00                                  0Q00
USAID                              2.00         0.70         2.70                                   3,33
World Food Program                 1.60         0.00         1.60                                   1.50
Govermnent of the                  0.60         0.40         1.00                                   3.49
Netherlands
UNDP                               0.20         0.00         0.20                                   0.00
Government of Spain                0.20         0.10         0.30                                   0.07
Governent of France                0.10         0.00         0.10                                   0.10
UNICEF                             0.10         0.00         0.10                                   0.23
Other External Resources
OPEC                               0.00         0.00         0.00                                   2.76
Others (1)                         0.00         0.00         0.00                                   1.23
Subtotal       32.50        15.00        47.50                                  63.58
Domestic Contributions
Government of Honduras (2)         6.70         0.00         6.70                                  17.86
Beneficiaries (3)                  3.10         0.00         3.10                                   0.59
Subtotal        9.80         0.00         9.80                                  18.45
Total                  50.50        17.00        67.50        66.38        15.65        82.03
Source: Accounting Department/Financial Statements, FHIS
Note: Data from June 25, 1992 through October 31, 1995.
(1) Others: Canada, Switzerland
(2) Includes contributions for operating costs.
(3) Cash only: contributions for water projects, pumps, and sanitation.



22
Table A7: Status of Covenants
Agreement   Section   Covenant    Present          Original        Revised
Type       Status       Fulfillment     Fulfillment                    Description of Covenant
Date            Date
Credit       3.03(b)        5           C           8/31/92                      Hire additional supervisory staff
3.06(a)       9           C           11/31/92          4/93       Carry out and furnish impact assessment of first SIF
3.06(b)       9           C           2/28/93           4/93       Review of Project progress and procurement thresholds based on
impact assessment
3.06(c)       5           C           3/31/93           6/93       Implement changes based on recommendations from Review of
Project progress
3.08          9           C         Semi-annual                    Report on subprojects approved by SIF
3.10          9           C         Semi-annual                    Review of standard regionalized unit prices for goods and works
4.01(a)       1           C         Continuously                   Maintain records and accounts
4.01(b)       1           C           Annually                     Audit of records and accoints by an independant auditor
4.01(c)       1           C           Quarterly                   =Audit of SIF perations by independant auditor
Table A8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                     Weeks                     US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal                                  3,7                          7.6
Appraisal                                                14.2                         16.8
Negotiations through Board Approval                                                    8.6
Supervision                                              65.3                        122.3
Completion                                               12.4                         16.9
Total                                                    95.6                        172.2



23
Table A9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance RatingE
Stage of Project  Month/   Number   Days in    Specialized   Implementation   Development           Types of
Cycle        Year        of        Field     Staff Skills      Status         Objectives       Problems
Persons              Represented _ _          _
Through            2/92        2         8           A,B              n.a.            n.a.
Appraisal
Appraisal                                                             n.a.            n.a.
Through Board
Approval
Supervision 1      3/93       8          14      A(3),B,C,D,E,         1              n.a.      n.a.
F
Supervision 2      7/93       2          5           A,G               1              n.a.      n.a.
Supervision 3     10/93        1         2            A                1              n.a.      n.a.
Supervison 4       2/94        1         1            A                1              n.a.      n.a.
Completion         1/96       2          10          A,E               S               S
a/ A=Human Resources Specialist; B=Financial Analyst; C=Engineer; D=Administrator; E=Credit Specialist; F=Economist; G=Procurement Analyst
b l=Problem Free; 2=Moderate Problems; HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory
Note: As of mid-1994, supervision of Cr. 2401-HO became part of project preparation activities for SIF III (Cr. 2766-HO) in October 1994, December 1994,
February 1995, and April 1995



24
Table B1: Amount and Uses of Funds by Year
1990 through October 31, 1995
(US$ million)
Total funding                           6.30   19.31   30.41  42.80    18.12    10.66    127.61
Project costs                           2.75   17.68    22.69   43.94    11.46    15.69    114.21
Administration                          0.52    1.41    2.24    2.54     2.71     3.26      12.68
Unspent funds                           3.03    0.22    5.49   -3.68     3.95    -8.29       0.72
Exchange rates used: US$ 1.00= Lps.     5.35    5.40    5.54    6.41 J   8.55     9.14
Date: October31, 1995
Source: Financial Statements, FHIS



25
Table B2: FHIS Investment by Program
1990 through October 31, 1995
SECTOR                 1990.        19    1    192         19          19914~        19,93          TOTAL         PAIaa
SOCIL LINFRASTRUCTURE
Amount (US$ million)                5.39       16.74       24.20      24.93        6.69           22.06           100.00
No. of Projects                     610         904         966        995         212             993            4,680
Beneficiaries                     85,258    477,059     566,987    508,366    258,042           302,876        2,198,588
Employment Generated              90,748    160,804     128,926    111,559      19,285          72,968          584,290
Average Subproject Cost(US$)       8,835     18,514      25,051      25,058     31,555           22,211          21,368
ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Amount(US$ million)                 2.22        3.11        2.98       2.25        0.66            0.96            12.17
No. of Projects                     403        336          100         59         113              92             1,103
Beneficiaries                    132,435     32,912       15,695     13,137     54,091           19,370         267,640
Employment Generated             207,081     88,004      15,393      26,432     54,530           92,043         483,483
Average Subproject Cost(US$)       5,511      9,251 1    29,818      38,152      5,807           10,387           11,037
OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
Amount (US$ million)                0.24        0.18        0.25       0.48        0.04            0.37            156
No. of Projects                      40          22           8          13          3               9               95
Beneficiaries                     11,738      2,961        1,620     11,090      4,316            2,670          34,395
Employmnent Generated             11,501      2,891        1,043      2,450      1,981            1,512          21,378
Average Subproject Cost(US$)       5,997      8,290       31,550     37,075     12,094           41,281           16,468
BASIC NEEDS (SOCIAL SERVICES)
Amount (US$ million)                0.42        8.07        5.33       10.16       0.97            2.47            27.41
No. of Projects                      61         367         248        373          26             215             1,290
Beneficiaries                      4,900    163,498      160,902    235,763     17,935           19,685         602,683
Employment Generated              23,324     38,759      24,745        875         476           72,429          160,608
Average Subproject Cost(US$)       6,838     21,981      21,509      27,230     37,343           11,474          21,250
INFORMAL SECTOR CREDIT*
Amount (US$ million)                0.58        2.04        1.60        1.87       0.93            2.62             9.63            5.6
No. of Projects                       4          21          13         20          13               14              85             77
Beneficiaries                      2,536     17,568        5,363      8,368      1,346            4,632          39,813         25,038
Employment Generated                  0           0           0          00 0                        O                0
Average Subproject Cost(US$)     145,576     96,910      122,712     93,621     71,194          187,146          113,302        72,727
TOTALAMOUNT(US$                     8.85      30.13        34.36      39.69        9.28           28.47           150.78         147.74
million)                     _             _          _            _          _          _               |_         ._         _ __ _
TOTAL No. OF PROJECTS               1,118      1,650        1,335      1,460        367            1,323            7,253         7,245
TOTAL BENEFICIARIES               236,867    693,998     750,567    776,724    335,730           349,233        314,3119 1
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT                  332,654    290,458      170,107 -  141,316     76,272          238,952        1,249,759
Date: October 31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS
Beneficiaries: Preliminary data.
Employment: Person /months of additional temporary employment. PASI sustained 19,884 jobs and created 5,141 jobs.
* Unfortunately, PASrs system sitows different data (listed in the last column).



26
Table B3: Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Subproject Status
1990 through October 31, 1995
STATUS                      j  N . of               OTA
Approved for execution                                 69        1         5.55           4
In execution                                         1493       21        31.91          21
Completed                                            5491       76       110.04          73
Canceled                                              200        3         3.28           2
TOTAL                                            7253      100       150.78         100
Date: October 31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS



27
Table B4: FHIS Investment by Municipal Poverty Index
1990 through October 1995
(percent)
Classification                               ofTotal        1990         1991      :99Z i        1993 |       1994        1995    TOTAL
|of Municipalities:  ::      :     .::Population :           :          ::    : .                       :_____ . :.   :       
Very poor                                         20
Amount approved                                               8          19          20           19          22           23          20
Number of subprojects                                        21          22          25           25          46           24          24
Poor                                              21
Amount approved                                              13          16          23           19           16          22          20
Number of subprojects                                        25          20           24          19           14          28          23
Deficient                                         24
Amount approved                                              27          21          24           19          21           25          22
Number of subprojects                                        22          18           24          20           12          27          21
Subtotal                          65
Amount approved                                              48          56          67           57          60           70          61
Number of subprojects                                        67          60           74          64          72           78          68
Regular                                           26
Amount approved                                              44          35          27           26          33           25          29
Number of subprojects                                        30          34           21          19          26           19           25
Acceptable                                         9
Amount approved                                               8          10            6          16           7            5           10
Number of subprojects                                         3           6            5          17            2           2            7
Subtotal                          35
Amount approved                                              52          44           33          43          40           30          39
Number of subprojects                                        33          40           26          36          28           22           32
TOTAL                            100                                                   1
Amount approved                                    1        100         100          100         100         100          100          100
Number of subprojects                                       100         100          100         100         o00          100          100
Date: October31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS



28
Table B5: FHIS Investment by Municipal Poverty Index
1990 through October 31, 1995
(US$ million)
0IC ssiicationoe                 ]0o j f Ttaa--n901991.1992  . .....
Very poor                                       20
Amount approved                                          0.69        5.64       6.92        7.61        2.08        6.50       29.44
Number of subprojects                                    229         355         339         366         170         311        1770
Poor                                            21
Amount approved                                          1.19        4.89       7.88        7.74         1.51       6.39       29.61
Number of subprojects                                    279         338         321         281          50         372        1641
Deficient                                       24
Amount approved                                          2.40        6.20        8.27       7.47         1.96       7.09       33.38
Number of subprojects                                    241         300         323         290          44         353        1551
Subtotal                         65
Amount approved                                          3.89       16.74       23.07      22.82        5.55        19.99      92.44
Number of subprojects                                    330         993         983         937         264        1036        4962
Regular                                         26
Amount approved                                          0.68       10.46        9.16       10.42       3.07        7.02       44.01
Number of subprojects                                     38         561         280        2381          94         254        1800
Acceptable                                       9
Amount approved                                          4.57        2.93        2.13       6.46        0.66         1.46       14.33
Number of subprojects                                    368          96          72         242           9          33         490
Subtotal                         35
Amount approved                                          4.57       13.39       11.29       16.88       3.73         8.48       58.34
Number of subprojects                                    368         657         352         523         103         287        2290
TOTAL                           100
Amount approved                                          8.85       30.13       34.36      39.69        9.28       28.47       150.78
Number of subprojects                                   1117        1650        1335        1460         367        1323        7252
Exchange rates used: US$ 1.00  Lps.    -                  5.35 |      5.40 [      5.54 |      6.41 [      8.55 l      9.14
Date: October31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS



29
Table B6: FHIS Participation in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
1990 through 1995
(US$ million)
Gross Domestic Product            1990           1991     [    1992          1993          g194         1995 r13        Total
Agriculture                                 467.82        588.51        593.13        626.53         678.49        807.92       3,762.39
Industrial manufacture                      340.72        438.33        518.94        539.44         496.91        594.89       2,929.23
Construction                                107.28        137.96        191.51        227.42         168.95        206.90       1,040.02
Transport and Communications                131.39        168.33        189.17         174.19        148.84         171.25        983.17
Commerce                                   240.92         290.18        318.04        320.91         290.90        360.54       1,821.50
Public Administration                       152.14        194.44        214.26        235.53         191 17        221.99       1,209.53
Services                                    241.10        266.85        307.58        329.81         290.78        370.61       1,806.72
Other (2)                                   403.71        503.32        579.05         589.07        541.11        670.13       3,286.39
Indirect taxes                              258.11        433.14        481.76        498.54         474.46        558.92       2,704.93
Total                                  2,343.19      3,021.06      3,393.44       3,541.45      3,281.62       3,963.15     19,543.90
FMIS Investment
Amount                                        8.85         30.13         34.36          39.69          9.28         28.47         150.78
FIBS participation (percent)                  0.38          1.00           1.01          1.12          0.28           0.72          0.76
Exchange rates used: US$ 1.00=Lps.   [        5.35 |        5.40          5.54 |         6.41          8.55           9.14
Date: October31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS
(1) Preliminary
(2) Others includes: Mining, electricity, gas and water, fnancial institutions, insurance, goods and services rendered to firms and real estate ownership.



30
Table B7: FHIS Participation in Social Sector Expenditures
1990 through 1995
(US$ million)
SECTOR                I     199Q     j      19       1    1992       1    19930 t         1994      1    995 (1)   [    Total
Social Sector Expenditures                 178.90          207.27         246.75          249.21         231.40          303.14         1416.67
Education                                   97.30          114.66          135.94         138.54          126.58         150.33         763.35.
Health                                       62.84          70.29          82.04           79.81          79.90          117.17          492.05
Others (2)                                   18.76          22.31          28.77           30.86          24.92           35.64          161.26
FHIS Investment                               8.85          30.13          34.36           39.69            9.28          28.47          150.78
Education                                     1.33          14.76           18.90          21.04            2.69          14.52           73.24
Health                                        4.25           8.14            8.93          11.51            4.83           9.11           46.76
Others (3)                                    3.27           7.23            6.53           7.14            1.76           4.84           30.78
TOTAL                              187.75          237.40         281.11          288.90         240.68          331.61        1567.45
F-ES Investment (percent)                     4.71          12.69           12.22          13.74            3.86           8.59            9.62
Exchange rate used: US$ 1.00=Lps              5.35           5.40            5.54           6.41            8.55           9.14
Date: October 31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS
(1) Estimated
(2) Others includes: Labor and social insurance, INFOP, JNBS, INJUPEMP, PRAF, FOSOVI.
(3) Others includes: hivestment in feeding and nutrition, social infrastructure, credit informal sector, attention to special groups and environment.



31
Table B8: Distribution by Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Type of Executors
1990 through October 31, 1995
Type of Executors           No. of.        No.,of                TOTAL US$         %
_______I -Executing                        Projects            ]      MM
:   :              ~~~~Agencies           :::   :           .-   
Municipalities                        293        1127          16             5.17        3
NGOs                                   114       1048          14           27.66        18
Construction firms                      82        310           4           26.02        17
Independent contractors              1221        4400          61           87.80        58
Others (1)                            200         328           5             2.96        2
TOTAL                             1976        7253 [       100          150.78       100
Date: October 31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS
(1) Others includes: community groups, foundations, religious institutions, charity
organizations.



32
Table B9: Distribution by Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Type of Soliciting Agency
1990 through October 31, 1995
Noof    NWo of                   %           TOTALUS$
Type o SoliitingAgenc    I  Soiciigq         Project       1]                       IM
: :   : : : : :  ........................................................................ . . . . . . . . . . .... .
Municipalities                                  293              5,369                74              98.14                  65
Community groups                                441                509                 7               8.02                   5
NGOs                                             102               444                 6              16.80                  11
Ministry of Education                            206               539                 7              16.51                  11
Ministry of Health                                17               293                 4               9.92                   7
Other government entities                         25                13                 0               0.25                   0
Religious groups                                  44                86                  1              1.14                   1
TOTAL                        |         1,128             7,253               100             150.78                 100
Date: October 31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FHIS
(1) Others includes: Including agencies that depend on the line ministries that solicit projects such as schools,
kindergartens, and health centers.



33
Table B10: FHIS Staffing
1990 through October 31, 1995
Classification       199                         1992        19 993    1   1-94          1995
Permanent Staff
Professional                33            68             86          80           73            69
Support                     24            61             70          94           84            71
Subtotal                57           129           156          174          157           140
Contract Employees
Professional          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.             47            67
Support               n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.             109          115
Subtotal                                                                     156           182
TOTAL         |         57           1291          156[         174[         313          322
Date: October31, 1995
Source: Personnel Department, FHIS
n.a.: Not available



34
Figure 1: FHIS Approved Financing and
Disbursements, 1990-1995
US$ million
40                  .                 .... .        ...
35
30
25                                  .... ..E.* Approved
20                            -                           .sbursed
15-
10              l
5-
0 
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Year
Date: October 31, 1995
Source: Systems Department, FH1S



APPENDIX A
AYUDA MEMORIA
BANCO MUNDIAL
HONDURAS
MISION DE CIERRE
Fondo Hondurefio de Inversi6n Social - FHIS II
Tegucigalpa, 27 de enero de 1996.
1. Entre el 22 y 27 de enero de 1996, se realizo la misi6n de "cierre"
del Credito 2401 -HO compuesta por Anna Kathryn Vandever Webb
y Hans Christiaan Haan, consultores del Banco Mundial.  El
objetivo de la misi6n fue realizar una evaluacion retrospectiva de la
implementacion del segundo proyecto de inversi6n social del mismo
Cr6dito, a traves de entrevistas, revisi6n de documentos y reuniones
de trabajo.
2.  De manera resumida, uno de los logros principales del FHIS
durante la vigencia del Cr6dito, fu6 su significativa contribuci6n al
sector social donde el financiamiento del FHIS mejor6 la
infraestructura y las condiciones de los servicios de salud y
educaci6n, estimulando la utilizaci6n de estos servicios. Otro logro
importante fu6 la generaci6n de empleo e ingreso a traves del
Programa de Apoyo al Sector Informal (PASI). El financiamiento
de cr6ditos al sector de la microempresa ha sido muy exitoso, y
particularmente por la amplia participacion de la mujer en su
programa.
3.  Los objetivos no logrados fueron dos: primero, la sostenibilidad de
los proyectos financiados por el FHIS ha sido baja, por no tener la
participaci6n de la comunidad en la identificaci6n del proyecto
mismo, asf como en su operaci6n y mantenimiento. Sin embargo, a
partir de 1995 se inici6 el "Proyecto Piloto de Participaci6n Social"
y se ha logrado a partir del tercer credito el compromiso de
financiamiento del Banco Mundial para este proyecto y demas
esfuerzos de capacitaci6n orientados al logro de una efectiva
participaci6n de los gobiernos locales y comunidades. El otro
objetivo no logrado fue el funcionamiento de la Comisi6n de Enlace
Gobierno-Organizaciones No Gubernamentales, es importante
aclarar que este componente no era responsabilidad del FHIS y
consta en los documentos.  No obstante y reconociendo el
importante papel que las ONG's realizan en funci6n del desarrollo
nacional, se realiz6 en 1995, con el apoyo de Ruta Social y el Banco
Mundial, un Seminario Regional sobre los "Fondos de Inversion



Social y las ONGs". A partir de este evento se integr6 una
comisio6n permanente FHIS/ONG's.
4.  Un  problema  encontrado  es  acerca  de  las  relaciones
interinstitucionales entre el FHIIS y los ministerios de linea, el
problema fue una inadecuada priorizacion y programacion de la
inversion en estos sectores en los primeros afios del cr6dito. Esta
situaci6n se ha mejorado mediante los siguientes proyectos
financiados por el Banco Mundial: Proyecto de Salud y Nutrici6n,
el Proyecto de Educacion Ba'sica y el Tercer Proyecto de Inversi6n
Social, asimismo, actualmente el FHIS ha mejorado sustancialmente
estas relaciones interinstitucionales.
5.  Otro  problema  ocurrio  durante  el anio  de  las elecciones
presidenciales, celebradas en noviembre de 1993, cuando hubo una
administracion desordenada del ciclo de proyectos y aprobaciones
que provoca en 1994 un incremento sustancial de subproyectos con
problemas. Es importante destacar que tanto el FHIS como los
donantes no previeron este problema y la presente administraci6n
que inicio en febrero de 1994 tampoco fue informada, sino que
hasta transcurridos ma's de 6 meses se detectaron proyectos con
problemas a traves de las alcaldias municipales; es de hacer notar
que los problemas detectados ya fueron resueltos.
6.  El Banco Mundial esta de acuerdo con los planes de PASI para
iniciar servicios complementarios de asistencia no financiera al
sector informal, con la condici6n que estos servicios no
sobrecarguen la capacidad institucional instalada del PASI. Estas
nuevas actividades respaldan la discusi6n que el PASI sea mas
independiente del FHIS.
7.  Finalmente, esta mision agradece la amplia cooperaci6n que el
personal del EHIS le ha proporcionado, asimismo esta misi6n
proporciono al FHIS los lineamientos necesarios para elaborar su
informe sobre la evaluaci6n del Cr6dito el cual sera enviado el 28
de febrer 9e
MaA el Zelaya Rosales       Anna Kathryn Vandever Webb
Mini tro FHIS               Consultora Banco Mundial



37                                APPENDIX B
HONDURAS SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
FINAL REPORT OF THE BORROWER
Development Credit Agreement
No. 2401 - HO
HONDURAS SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C., March 11, 1996
Note: Translated in Washington, DC on April 11, 1996



38                                   APPENDIX B
Table of Contents
Executive Summary.
I.     Background.
II.    Description of Operations Performed.
[a]    FHIS II Project Design Appraisal.
[b]    Implementation of FHIS II Project.
[c]    Experiences derived from the Execution of the FIRS II Project.
III.    Appraisal of Operations from the Point of View of the Borrower and/or the Executing Unit.
[a]    Project Performance Quality.
[b]    Lessons Learned and Measures to be Applied in the Future.
[c]    IDA-IDB-KfW-OPEC Work Relations in relation to FIS II Project.
[d]    Lessons Learned.
IV.    Conclusions.
V.     Annexes.



39                                  APPENDIX B
Executive Summary
The performance of FHIS regarding the proper use and focus of the resources originated in Development
Credit Agreement No. 2401-HO, which was signed on September 29, 1992, and has been assessed as efficient with
respect to the directives received and the agreements reached with the appraisal and mid-term missions during the
1992-1996 period.
Indeed, FHIS has benefited from various experiences which have, at this point, enabled it to modify the
technical and administrative procedures that, as a second level financial institution, it must unavoidably apply,
given the continuous dynamic activity of the social investment process it must execute within the social agenda of
the Government.
The main characteristics of the process may be summarized in terms of its achievements:
(i)    In the proper focus of funds based on the modification and fine tuning of the poverty map.
(ii)   In the update of technical and administrative procedures according to the operative manuals already
approved and operating since 1993; and
(iii)   In recognizing the need to keep, like private enterprises, competitive institutional management indicators.
In the future, it will be possible to apply the lessons learned from this very interesting investment process,
since there is no other institution within the core of the public sector, dedicated to so complex a task satisfying
most of the population's needs.
.      BackgroundL
Management of the execution of the FHIS Credit Agreement of the International Development
Association of the World Bank began in September 1992. The amount approved by IDA, for a total of SDR
7,444,000.00 generated a total sum of US$20,000,000.00, the use of which allowed financing of 504 subprojects
under three Action Programs, namely: Infrastructure, Basic Needs and Informal Sector Credit.
The execution of 504 subprojects with the financial support of IDA has produced measurable results with
respect to the executive capacity of FLIS, specifically regarding:
(i)    Technical diversification of the Action Programs;
(ii)    Focus of investments on social sectors in greatest need, amended according to the efficiency in
the application of the operational manuals, and upon determining the effective demand for
projects of communities duly organized and formally willing to accept part of the preventive and
corrective operation and maintenance responsibilities; and
(iii)   Recognition of the need to keep institutional management indicators that allow for a competitive
position with respect to the domestic private sector in terms of its total operative input-output
ratio.
1I.    Description of Operations Performedt
[al    FHIS II Project Design Appraisal.
The design of the FHIS H Project is considered to have observed the requirements necessary to achieve the
greatest efficiency in the use of funds; it should be noted however, that there was an amendment to the project



40                                   APPENDIX B
menu as a result of the decreasing number of approvals registered in types of projects that were not actually
fulfilling major unsatisfied basic needs.
This, for example, means that the consultant's study on the technical and social viability of the main types
of basic needs projects prepared for IDA in November 1993, allowed for important conclusions to be made in
support of criteria which would eliminate those types of projects which were not making substantial contributions
to the reduction of the State's social debt to its people.
Such motives determined that the financial assistance provided by IDA to Honduras be routed to FlITS for
this purpose.
[b]    Implementation of the FHIS II Project
Consequences of the implementation of the suggestions set forth in the FHIlS II Project were as follows:
(i)    Financing of the execution of 504 subprojects.
(ii)    The diversification of approvals in terms of 41 types of projects under the above three Action
Programs.
(iii)   The use of funds up to an amount of L.77,769,294.42.
(iv)    Directly benefiting 2,767,368 people in such a way that in the short-, medium- and long term,
this population would be covered.
[c]    Experiences Derived from the Execution of the FIIS II Project.
The main experiences obtained during the execution may be listed in the following order according to
their significance:
(i)    The availability of the operational manuals was an element of utmost importance inT maintaining
and improving the organizational structure, and in using the same to channel funds towards the
sectors in greatest need.
(ii)    The poverty map served as a basic tool to determine the positive and negative aspects of the
project portfolio. In other words, the amendments made to the poverty map, a result of various
consultant studies, agreements with appraisal missions, and internal technical and administrative
opinions, redirected funds to towns, municipalities, departments, sectors and programs.
(iii)   The involvement of beneficiaries in the operation and maintenance, and preventive and
corrective maintenance of the works assigned to them.
(iv)    The decisive participation of local govermnents and legally organized communities in the
management, prioritization, promotion, appraisal, supervision and social monitoring of
subprojects.
(v)    The above circumstances determined the need to modify the organizational structure of FEIS in
order to redirect it's aim towards:
*      emphasizing preferential support for the poorest 100 municipalities;
*      endeavoring to further focus investments by encouraging the social participation of
beneficiaries;



41                                   APPENDIX B
*      requesting and demanding the participation of beneficiaries in the social monitoring of
projects;
inviting beneficiaries to coinvest with FHIS through the local governments. In this case,
the latter will contribute funds, and demand that the former pay their municipal taxes;
and
*      coordinating with line Ministries within the social investment process, through a faster
execution of works (Health and Education).
IIL.    Appraisal of Operationsfrom the Point of View of the Borrower and/or the Executing Unit
[a]    Project Performance Quality.
The performance of FLIS could be easily questionable, should we only analyze procedures. However, the
results of the procedures used -albeit not the most appropriate procedures for the current progress situation-, are
nevertheless evidence of a healthy intention to achieve improvements for 70 percent of the population presently
below the poverty line.
The Projects Department has been efficient throughout the whole process, from its office for registration
of projects to the moment of submission of appraised subprojects to the Operations Committee; however, appraisal
deficiencies have been corrected in the Legal and Monitoring Divisions.
The Basic Needs Program allowed for the successful completion of the School Desks Supply Program by
providing a total of 360,000 two person desks to public elementary schools (an achievement shared with IDB Loan
No. 889/SF-HO); in addition, the execution of subprojects which would directly target families in conditions of
extreme poverty was a notable achievement of DCA No. 2401-HO.
The PASI Credit Program has continued to show an adequate performance, its investment portfolio has
improved, reducing default situations, increasing recovery and increasing labor capital.
[b]    Lessons Learned and Measures to be Applied in the Future.
Upon describing the lessons learned in the preceding paragraphs, it would be worth to add the following:
(i)    FLITS needs to have a work team like the one it has been working with, in order to further
increase professional, technical and administrative performance.
(ii)    The support of the international financial comnnunity has been essential to test this type of social
Project.
(iii)   Up to this moment there is no evidence to show that the project type average may be an effective
guaranty of social returns, if social participation towards sustainability is not generalized.
(iv)    Special emphasis will be given to keeping management indicators as fundamental parameters to
determine the efficiency of management.
[cl    IDA-IDB-KfW-OPEC Work Relations in relation to FHIS II Project.
It would be advisable that whenever possible, the financial community unify its technical and
administrative requirements from FLIRS, in order to reduce interpretation costs incurred at present.



42                                   APPENDIX B
For example, it would be worth considering, that if IDA requests an analysis of the possibilities of the
beneficiaries' social participation in the projects cycle, IDB and KfW should unify their requirements in order to
ensure the participation of women in the generation of income for their respective families.
It is clearly understood that the aim of the Financial Community is to maximize exceptionally soft
financial resources awarded during its management to pilot entities such as FHIS; however, at this stage FIRS is no
longer an institutional test, and it would be advisable to recognize it as a permanent entity throughout the next six
years.
[d]    Lessons Learned.
(i)    It is recognized that DCA No. 2401-HO fulfilled a reasonable amount of unsatisfied basic needs,
taking into account that social indebtedness has been substantial.
(ii)    Cofinancing from the rest of the International Financial Community in the FHIS II Project has
been an excellent complement. The issue that stands out is the fact that IDA has chaired and
continues to chair the donor table, a situation of unspeakable value to the Institution.
(iii)   The amendment and improvement of the organizational structure for the operation of the entity
have been mandatory circumstances, given the dynamic character of the social investment
process, and despite the political cost to the current Government of equally distributing
investment over the whole country.
IV.    Conclusions.
(i)    The experience of FlIS in the administration of the IDA funds has been an excellent opportunity
to prove that with an acceptably organized entity, it is possible to achieve the maximum possible
improvement for 70 percent of the population living below the poverty line in Honduras.
(ii)    The technical and administrative processes of the project cycle have proved to be of great benefit
as professional evidence; for example, promoters and appraisers have had to face the country's
reality in order to conceive and prioritize subprojects according to their actual national
significance and need.
(iii)   The most outstanding coinvestment of the International Financial Community in favor of FHIS,
has been so convenient that it has allowed for an unexpected prestige to be earned, given the fact
that the executives of the entity have shared their experience with other countries wherein its
modest achievements are known.
(iv)   It is obvious that the social investment process will continue to demand new challenges from the
entity, so that its administrative and technical structure may be capable of facing new situations
brought about by the sociopolitical development of the country.
v      Annexes.



43                                                          APPENDIX B
Summary of Approved Projects by Type charged to IDA/WB Credit 2401-HO at December 31, 1995
Amounts expressed in current lempiras
Description                         Amount of       Amount          Amount      Beneficiaries    Jobs
I Projects      Approved        Disbursed                  Generated
Construction of protection works and terraces                    3         183,511.56      177,426.24       5,009         26
Repair, maintenance and enlargement of public schools           77       13,315,758.92    12,961,484.62   173,557       1,136
Construction of elementary public schools                       85       14,659,456.48    14,290,469.50   162,110        973
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of health centers    4         362,721.30      342,611.58     117,500         42
Construction of health centers                                   7         814,380.35      703,369.23     293,750         90
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of child care centers and  1   305,705.23      298,135.34       1,600          14
kindergartens
Construction of public child care centers and kindergartens     20       3,226,203.77    3,142,051.98      25,600        252
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of markets and public  2       237,747.86      233,218.53       1,908         25
areas
Construction of markets and public areas                         5         558,145.52      551,724.90      37,600         68
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of historic monuments  4       747,828.92      726,042.12     160,000        244
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of halls and nursing  1        189,388.50      183,872.33       3,000          0
centers
Construction of child halls and nursing centers                  1          78,439.80       76,393.77       2,240         12
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of community services  20    5,221,583.94    5,184,416.78      73,900        361
Construction of sewage works                                    10       1,945,005.11    1,970,505.15      13,161        360
Construction of drinking water works                             8         833,093.15      809,393.20      13,146        221
Construction of major and minor drainage works                  44       7,782,757.47    7,655,883.68     359,443        875
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of sewage works      1         148,305.18      143,935.34         325          23
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of drinking water works  5     597,617.77      576,611.55       8,694         66
Paving and improvement of streets                                1         558,404.36      558,404.36      10,000          36
Construction of roads and rights of way                          5         898,221.94      868,111.39      43,332        298
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of major and rninor  4         313,813.06      304,899.97      14,830          57
drainage works
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of roads             3         218,145.94      107,629.19      10,350         157
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of drainage works,    1         73,218.17       71,576.08       1,200          13
channels and ditches
Rehabilitation, maintenance and enlargement of protection works and  1     195,770.24      188,805.20       2,450          22
terraces
Construction of curbs                                            1         336,718.21      336,718.21       3,150          46
Construction of stairs                                           1         110,445.19      107,883.13         137          17
Support to urban sector microenterprises                         2        1,958,000.00    1,953,173.84        382           0
Construction of garbage incinerators                             1          98,341.74      123,341.74       2,300           8
Family microfarms and gardens                                   27       4,379,930.00     4,229,388.81     30,504          62



44                                                          APPENDIX B
No.  Code                     Description                  Amount of      Amount          Amount    I Beneficiaries|   Jobs
Type                                                  Projects     Approved        Disbursed                  Generated
30    76   Maternal Enterprise Program (EMMAS)                11       1,143,882.52     1,087,752.23      1,280         0
31    81   Basic Health Training                               1         183,215.82       177,879.44       936          2
32    82   Equipment and Furniture support for health centers and  1     108,150.00       105,000.00    20,000          0
hospitals
33    83   Community health programs                          6          980,713.20      952,438.88      38,301         13
34    84   Full health coverage for the disabled              4          284,048.17      275,740.56        347          0
35    86   Full health coverage for the elderly               4          319,758.51      310,445.14        338          0
36    87   Full health coverage for "street children"        30        4,080,415,.48    3,350,488.08     9,835         79
37    94   Manufacture of school furniture                   65        5,442,632.29     5,244,560.70    1,106,586    1,398
38    95   Training and provision of basic equipment to midwives  28   3,054,399.43     2,493,147.16     10,907         0
39    96   Support to CEPENF                                  7          846,383.32      818,461.61      3,660          0
40    99   Hospital, institutions, churches, cemeteries and others  1    107,989.64       107,989.64     4,000          14
41    110   Training of Water Committees                       1         869,046.36      869,046.36          0          21
Total                       504       77,769,294.42    74,670,427.56   2,767,368     7,031
Source: Direcci6n de C6mputo



45                          APPENDIX C
PROVISION OF CREDIT TO MICRO-ENTERPRISES:
THE CASE OF THE HONDURAS SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
INFORMAL SECTOR CREDIT PROGRAM
Introduction
1.    Within FHIS, the "Support Program for the Informal Sector"(PASI) is
responsible for the provision of credit for employment and income-generating activities in
the "informal sector" in the urban areas (towns with a population of over 10,000
inhabitants)'. These credits are channeled through intermediary organizations (IO). As of
October 1995, PASI had arrangements for the on-lending of credit with a total of 45 IOs,
of which 26 were NGOs, 11 were associations and other groupings of micro-
entrepreneurs, two were cooperatives, and four were Chambers of Commerce and
Industry. PASI recently started a pilot activity with the provision of credit via a
municipality.
Credit Fund
2.    Since its inception in 1991 up to the end of 1995, PASI has received a total
amount of just over US$5.0 million for its credit fund. IDA contributed a total of US$1.7
million, of which US$1,377,000 was received in November 1990 (as part of Credit 2212-
HO), and US$343,750 in August 1992 (Credit 2401-HO). The rest of the financing came
from the Governments of Honduras and The Netherlands (two donations). Of the total
amount received, some 10 percent was allocated to technical assistance; the Dutch grant
was used for a technical assistance project, executed by the International Labor
Organization (ILO).
3.    The total amount which PASI received for the Credit Fund, converted in local
currency, was Lps.34,483,046. As of the end of October 1995, an amount of
Lps.52,873,385 had been disbursed to IOs for on-lending, while Lps.28,275.556 had been
recovered; approved loans totaled Lps.15,676,788. and Lps.8,611,131 was still available.
Payment arrears amounted to Lps.2,282,360, which gave a default rate of 4.7% over the
total portfolio 2.
1   HIS also operates a credit project for rural micro-enterprises, PROCATMvER, which receives
funding from the European Union. PROCATMER uses a similar methodology and operating
procedures, and also provides credit through intermediary organizations.
2  The default rate is calculated on the basis of amortizations which have come due in relation to the
total loan portfolio. If it would be related to the active portfolio, which would be more conservative,



46                          APPENDIX C
4.    PASI attaches major importance to the maintenance of the US dollar-value of the
credit fund. For some years this value decreased due to various factors, such as
inadequate preparation and supervision in the beginning; the devaluation of the Lempira
(which lost about one-third of its value); and the policy to contribute to the operational
costs of the IOs (usually 10 percent of the credit amount) from the credit fund. More
recently, the dollar value had been brought back to the original level through a revision of
the interest policy, which brought the interest rate charged to the IOs in line with market
rates; the discontinuation of the operational cost contribution; and the interest being
received on unallocated credit funds, now that PASI has made an arrangement with two
local banks to administer approved credits as trust funds (fideicomiso). PASI's
management is confident that, with the new policies and level of the portfolio, sufficient
revenues can be generated to cover the operational costs of its credit program.
Credit approval and monitoring
5 .    PASI' s credit operations are governed by an extensive set of guidelines and
manuals, which include procedures for the selection of the IOs, and the approval and
monitoring of credits. The first credits to IOs carried subsidized interest rates and the
provision for a fixed mark-up for the on-lending interest rates, but these policies were
changed in December 1994. PASI now charges 28-30 percent interest on the loans to the
lOs, which is equal to the market rate; the IOs are now free to decide the level of interest
they charge to the ultimate beneficiaries. Also, contrary to earlier practice, PASI no
longer contributes towards the operational costs of the 1Os.
6.    PASI has succeeded involving two local commercial banks, Banco Pacifico and
Banco del Pais, in the administration of credits made available to 1Os, in accordance with
PASI's operational manuals. One of the banks has also contributed to the credit fund
from its own finances. The banks receive one percent calculated on the basis of the total
outstanding credit amount at the end of each period to cover administration costs.
7.    The credits are prepared by PASI staff, who check the background of the TO and
visit a number of the micro-entrepreneurs applying for a credit, and approved by a Credit
Committee which consists of the PASI Director, the heads of the PASI Departments, and
the Legal Adviser. For the credits from the trust fund to which one of the commercial
banks contributed, a special Credit Committee has been formed, in which the bank
participates.
the default rate would be 11 percent. If it would be based on the amount of loans which had
defaulted, which would be more accurate and common, it would also be significantly higher.



47                          APPENDIX C
8.    PASI has now also developed a fully computerized monitoring system,
INFORMAX. It is installed in all the IOs (except for a few which have no suitable
equipment) and, recently, in the participating banks. Through INFORMAX, PASI has
available ample and up-to-date data on (i) the status of the credits provided to the 10, and
(ii) the use and repayments of the credits which the IOs have provided to the ultimate
beneficiaries. As part of the monitoring, PASI officials re-visit the IOs and as many of the
credit beneficiaries as possible, and carry out reviews of the projects that are being
implemented to ensure the proper use of the funds.
Number of credits, use and impact
9.    PASI operates two credit schemes, both by providing credits for on-lending by
1Os. The Micro-Enterprise (ME) Credit scheme is aimed at informal sector producers
with at least one year of business experience. The Community Banks (CB) Credit scheme
is meant to serve "vulnerable" beneficiaries, including self-employed workers, youth and
other informal producers without experience, and women. These loans are provided to
IOs (e.g., FINCA) that organize beneficiaries in groups which receive a start-up capital.
This is supposed to grow through savings and interest payments, so that, after its
repayment, a nucleus capital remains for the operation of a "bank" at the community
level, managed by the beneficiaries themselves.
10.   From the start of the Dutch-funded, ILO-executed TA-project in September 1991
through October 1995, PASI received 175 requests for credits, of which 77 for 45 IOs
were approved for a total amount of Lps. 72.2 million. At the end of October 1995, a
total amount of Lps. 48.7 million in credits had been disbursed, 68.1 percent was provided
under the ME Credit program and 31.9 percent through the CB scheme. Of all the credits
to IOs, 60 concerned ME credits, 6 consisted of CB financing, 10 were of a 'mixed'
ME/CB nature, and for one, no disbursement had been made. This means3 that the
average ME credit provided to an IO was about US$84,000, while the average CB credit
to an IO amounted to about US$172,000. Some of the IOs received more than one credit;
on average, they were given 1.7 credits.
11.   Of the 70 ME credits to IOs, a total of 5,479 credits were onlent to micro-
entrepreneurs; the number of beneficiary micro-firms is not known, since there is no
information on the number of entrepreneurs who received repeat credits; however, a
.recent PASI study indicates that 88 percent of the micro-entrepreneurs received only one
credit, while two percent of them received three or more credits. Of the CB credits to
3  Using an exchange rate of US$1.00=Lps. 7.5, which was the average rate over the 1990-95 period.



48                          APPENDIX C
1Os, sub-credits were given to 358 CBs. These CBs had a membership of 8,679, who
received a total of over 20,000, or on average three credits each (as is usual in the case of
CBs).
Number of disbursed ME and CB Credits
(End of October 1995)
Number of Credits  Percentages
Micro-enterprise credit (ME)
-male micro-entrepreneurs            2,333             42.6
-female micro-entrepreneurs          3,146             57.4
Subtotal                            5,479             21.4
Community Banks (CB)
-male beneficiaries                   1,245             6.2
-female beneficiaries                18,877            93.8
Subtotal                           20,122             78.6
Grand Total                          25,601           100.0
12.   The majority of credits under both the ME and the CB schemes were made to
women, the CB scheme almost exclusively serving women. However, it should be noted
that the average CB-loan is much smaller (about US$ 100) than the average ME-credit
(about US$800). An analysis of the data in INFORMAX 4 indicates that, even, within the
ME credits, the average amount lent to male micro-entrepreneurs (about US$750) is
significantly higher than the average credit amount lent to women of about US$460.
13.   PASI aims to give priority to productive activities within the ME-sector, even
though commerce is by far the dominant activity within the informal sector. This is based
on the premise that manufacturing activities (and some repair services) provide better
opportunities for employment creation, and that they are also important for overall
economic and private sector development, as they provide important inputs (e.g.,
manufacturing of spare parts, transport services, repairs) to the modem sector. The desire
to provide credits for productive activities is one of the main reasons for PASI to work
with ME-associations whose members are predominantly engaged in manufacturing. It
also lends to Chambers of Commerce (CoC) on the condition that at least half of the
ultimate credit beneficiaries are involved in productive activities, which is an important
stimulant for a CoC to promote informal producers as members. Although slightly lower
than the target at appraisal, 60 percent of the ME-credits were provided for productive
activities (70 percent planned), against 14 percent for services (20 percent planned) and 26
percent for small trading (10 percent planned).
4  See Frans Kerkhoff, Caracteristicas Socio-Econ6micas y Financieras de las Micro-Empresas en
Honduras (PASI, 1995), page 15.



49                          APPENDIX C
14.   Unfortunately, there is little factual information on the final impact of the ME and,
particularly, CB credits provided by PASI. The monitoring system gives the employment
effect of the credits as 19,884 jobs "preserved" and 5,154 jobs created. However, it
should be noted that these figures are provided by the IOs on the basis of the credit
proposals submitted by the micro-entrepreneurs, and not on post-credit delivery
information; there is no information on the economic sectors which generate most
employment. PASI is still in the process of setting up a regular system of impact studies.
Training and Technical Assistance
15.   As of 1992-1993, PASI has intensified its training and technical assistance
activities, directed at both the IOs with which it is collaborating, and its ultimate
beneficiaries, i.e., the micro-entrepreneurs. Up to the end of October 1995, a total of 74
events had been organized, from which benefited 908 staff members of IOs (and PASI
itself), while training was given to 1668 micro-entrepreneurs. Of the total number trained,
53 percent were women.
16.   PASI intends that national banks be gradually involved more in the administration
of the credits provided to 1Os. This would give PASI the opportunity to initiate
complementary types of assistance to micro-entrepreneurs in the area of non-financial
services, which are required to make the use of the credits provided to the informal sector
more effective. PASI has already started to involve itself in the provision of training of
micro-entrepreneurs, the formation of small producers' associations, the promotion of
subcontracting and forms of "flexible specialization" among micro-enterprises, and the
organization of marketing events; it has prepared proposals to foster the technological
upgrading of certain sub-sectors, such as shoemaking, metal-working, furniture, and
clothing. PASI has also gained some experience in the development of innovative ways to
create employment in the informal sector, through the promotion of micro-enterprises in
eco-tourism, financial-administrative services for the informal sector, and the recycling of
solid waste at municipal level. PASI has also initiated activities related to the formulation
of policies in favor of the informal sector.
Conclusions
17.   PASI has succeeded in setting up what appears to be, in many ways, an efficient
program to support the informal sector. Its procedures and, particularly, its computerized
system to monitor the provision of loans to IOs for on-lending has given micro-
entrepreneurs and, in particular, women in the informal sector some access to capital.
Even though impact measurements need to be improved, it would appear that the number
of work places created and strengthened is relatively large.



50                           APPENDIX C
18.   One of the most interesting aspect of the PASI operations concerns the initial
success it has had in involving commercial banks in the administration and initial fumding
of credit delivery to the micro-enterprises of the informal sector. The satisfactory
development of the ME-sector will require large amounts of capital which can only, and
probably most efficiently, be provided by the private banking sector. This would free
capacity in programs such as PASI to initiate the design and delivery of the non-financial
services, that are indispensable to making optimal use of such credits. PASI's entry in the
development of delivery mechanisms of technical skills, improved technologies, and
marketing assistance in this area, together with the formulation of policies, is
recommended.
19.   Important factors in the success of PASI are the non-political character of its
credits to IOs, the quality and commitment of its staff (which, in part, is the result of
relatively high salaries), and its decentralized position within FHIS. An often under-
estimated factor in this respect has been the presence of international technical assistance,
which (i) has been largely responsible for the elaboration of the instruments and
procedures for the various phases of the credit delivery process; (ii) has greatly
contributed to the development of a vision on the role of the program; and (iii) is still
financing almost all of PASI's operational costs. In fact, PASI's major weakness would
appear to be a certain dependence on technical assistance, which is funded by the same
donor who donated the major share of the credit fund. With this project going into its
third and possible last phase, PASI should start to prepare itself to stand on its own in the
delivery of credits to IOs for on-lending to informal sector producers. Intensified external
assistance is warranted only for the new areas which PASI is considering, such as training
and technological services for the ME-sector.



