Document of
The International Development Association
Report No. 17026 - KH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
January 12, 1998
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November, 1997)
Currency Unit  =   Riels
Riels I  =    US$0.0002941
US$1.00  -    Riels 3,400
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha.  =   hectare
MLD   = - Million Liters Per Day
cu. m   =   Cubic meters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC             Council for the Development of Cambodia
CC              Coordinating Committee for the Water and Sanitation Sector
UPWS            Unit of Potable Water Supply
MIME            Ministry of Industry, Mines and Minerals
MOE             Ministry of Environment
MOI             Ministry of the Interior
MPP             Municipality of Phnom Penh
MPW             Ministry of Public Works
MRD             Ministry of Rural Development
PPWSA           Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
RGC             Royal Government of Cambodia
SWSA            Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority
UFW             Unaccounted for Water
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President:         Mr. Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:      Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-lweala, EACSM
Sector Manager:        Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Manager:           Mr. N. Vijay Jagannathan, EASUR



i
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agencies:  (i) PPWSA, (ii) MIME, and (iii) CC
Beneficiaries            PPWSA
Poverty:                 Not applicable
Amount:                  SDR 22.70 million (US$30.96 million equivalent)
Terms:                   40 years, including 10 years of grace, at the IDA standard terrns
Commitment Fee:          Not to exceed 0.5 % on undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Net Present Value:       US$22.2 million at 10% discount rate on total project cost
excluding price contingencies, taxes and duties. Economic
internal rate of return of 17.2% in aggregate for Phnom
Penh and Sihanoukville components
Financing Plan:          See paragraph 2.33
On-lending terms:        Not to exceed 17 years, including a grace period not to
exceed 5 years, at 8.5 per cent per annum for the subsidiary
loan between RGC and PPWSA
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 17026 - KH
Map:                    IDA No. 28934
Project ID No.:          45629






iii
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................................i
I. INTRODUCTION ..................................1I
A. Water and sanitation sector background ..................................1l
B. Recent improvement in the water sector .......................................  -       .      2
C. Government programs and policy                                    .4
D. Key issues to address                                       .6
E. Lessons from experience                                       .7
F. Rationale for IDA involvement                                    .8
G. Rationale for project                                      .9
II THE PROJECT                                                  ..10
A Project objectives .10
B. Project description .10
C. Costs and financing .16
D. Procurement .18
E. Disbursements .20
F. Project management and implementation .22
III. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    ..24
A. Introduction .24
B. Overview of current financial performance .24
C. Future financial performance .26
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  . .29
A. Project benefits .29
B. Project costs .32
C. Other assumptions .32
D. Economic rate of return and sensitivity .33
E. Environmental and social impact .33
D. Project risks .34
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION .36
This report was prepared by Messrs./Mmes.: N. Vijay Jagannathan (Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist/Task Manager),
A. Baietti (Sr. PSP/Finance Specialist), T.V. Somanathan (Young Professional), H. Hayashi (Operations Officer), M.
El-E,rian (Sr. Counsel), A. Ordu (Sr. Economist), E. Pancaroglu (Sr. Sanitary Engineer). C. del Castillo (Resettlement
,1ecialist), 1. Cameron (Financial Economist, Consultant), J. Bucknall (Young Professional). D. Hughes
(l.Anvironmental Specialist), E. Haythome (Legal Specialist), Barbara Koeppel (Editor), and M. Ochieng (Task
Assistant). Mmes./Messrs. A. Dianderas and G. Tschannerl are the peer reviewers. Mr. Keshav Varmna is the Sector
Manager, and Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-lweala is the Country Director.



iv
ANNEXES
1.           Commercial Practices In The Cambodian Water Sector ......................................                                  38
2.           Cambodian Public Enterprise Legislation .......................................                                           49
3.           Letter Of Sector Objectives .................................                                                             51
4.           Terms Of Reference For Twinning Arrangement .................................                                             57
5.           Project Costs Estimate ..................................                                                                  64
6.           Phnom Penh Water Supply Improvements .............................                                                        71
7.           Sihanoukville Water Supply Improvements .............................                                                      76
8.           Terms Of Reference For Water Policy and
Institutional Consultants .79
9.           Terms Of Reference For Sanitation and Waste
Management Study .............................                                                                            83
10.          Outline Organization Charts .............................                                                                  89
11.          Summary Of Project Implementation Plans .............................                                                     91
12.          Detailed Disbursement Categories and
Estimated Schedule Of Disbursements .................................                                                    99
13.          Project Performance Monitoring and Evaluation .................................                                         101
14.    Supervision Plan .................................                                                                            105
15.          Financial Statements of PPWSA and SWSA .................................                                                109
16.    Financial Analysis .................................                                                                           113
17.          Economic Analysis Tables .................................                                                               128
18.          Documents In Project Files .................................                                                             131



CAMBODIA: URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
A.   WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.1   Cambodia has abundant natural fresh water sources--the Mekong and Tonle Sap
Rivers, rainfall of up to 3,000 mm in the highlands, and plentiful groundwater--yet at the
most, only 32 percent of the population have access to clean water. Water coverage in
Phnom Penh, though better than rest of the country, is low by international standards.
This is particularly troubling, because until the late 1960s, Cambodia's water supply
infrastructure was better than many of its neighbors and provided residents with 24 hour
service. Today, even where piped water is available, its quality is questionable and
service is intermittent.
1.2   Access to sanitation is even worse, with just 16 percent of the population covered,
since only those in the built-up areas of the largest cities and towns are connected to
wastewater systems. Moreover, these are nothing more than open drains that collect
rainwater and wastewater, which are then discharged untreated into open watercourses
and lagoons.
1.3   As a result, diarrheal disease is endemic. Further, infant mortality rates at 115 per
1,000 live births and morbidity statistics are among the worst in the world. It is estimated
that water-related diseases account for an estimated 30 percent of all hospitalizations.
1.4   These conditions are largely the result of nearly 25 years of political strife, when
the water infrastructure was completely neglected: No investment was made or
maintenance carried out from the 1970s through the early 1990s. At the same time, the
number of skilled manpower dramatically declined, along with institutional capacity, and
water utility records were destroyed, which made it nearly impossible for the utilities to
deliver sustainable services.
1.5   Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA), which draws its water from the
Mekong and Tonle Sap Rivers, has two water treatment plants. Both were rehabilitated
after 1991, have a combined capacity of 110,000 cubic meters a day, and produce water
that meets WHO standards. The distribution system extends for 307 km, with pipes of
varying condition. While there are currently 39,000 legal connections, which covers
about half the population, consumers only receive water for an average of 12 hours a day.
The other half of the population must purchase water from vendors or neighbors--at far
higher prices.



2
1.6  In the provincial cities, coverage is considerably lower and distribution is
inequitable. In the port city of Sihanoukville, for example, an estimated 11 percent have
access to piped water provided by the Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority (SWSA):
The system has just 750 working connections, and another 250, which do not operate due
to lack of water supply. Tankers deliver untreated water from a freshwater lake to
another 6 percent and the rest of the residents get water from shallow wells, vendors and
rainwater.
1.7   Responsibility for different services is fragmented among various organizations
and ministries: PPWSA is under the Ministry of the Interior, while SWSA and other
provincial water utilities are within the Unit of Potable Water Supply (UPWS) in the
Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME). The Municipality of Phnom Penh
(MPP) and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT) are responsible for
sanitation and wastewater infrastructure, while the Ministry of Rural Development is
responsible for rural water. The Ministry of Environment is also involved, and the
Department of Hydrology of the Ministry of Agriculture collects hydrological data, but
has no authority to manage the country's water resources (see Table 1.1).
Table 1.1: Institutional Responsibilities
Water                 Sanitation
Urban
Phnom Penh             MPP/PPWSA                   MPP
Other areas           UPWS of MIME                MPWT
Rural                           MRD                     MRD
1.8   This complex structure further weakens an already limited institutional capacity.
Thus, intervention is urgently needed in two areas: First, targeted investments must be
made into water supply facilities; second, policies must be designed to introduce best
practices in order to assure the projects can be completed satisfactorily and sustained,
once operational.
B.   RECENT IMPROVEMENTS IN THE WATER SECTOR
1.9   Despite severe shortages of qualified and experienced staff, water utilities in
Phnom Penh and the provinces have progressed remarkably in the past three years. Since
1993, PPWSA received $61 million, principally in grants, from France and Japan, to
rehabilitate the city's water supply infrastructure, while a UNDP/ World Bank Technical
Assistance Project (CMB /91/007) helped finance TA, training, skill development, and
studies, along with essential spare parts and equipment. At present, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) is funding a water supply project that complements the
proposed IDA credit.



3
1.10 Assistance from the international community was also responsible for launching
PPWSA on the road to commercialization. However, it must still improve its operational
and financial management before it can function as a commercial water utility. For
example, PPWSA continues to have one of the highest ratios of unaccounted for water
(UFW) in Asia (about 57 percent), although the ratio is profoundly better than in 1993,
when it topped 80 percent.
1.11  Another $6.7 million of donor assistance financed the rehabilitation of the basic
water supply in provincial towns. For example, in Sihanoukville, SWSA rehabilitated its
collapsed system with UNDP/World Bank technical assistance, and basic service has
been restored. Besides installing meters on all its connections and rehabilitating its water
treatment plant and pumping stations, it improved its accounting and billing/collections
systems. At present, the utility covers its operating costs, although it still cannot finance
new source developments to meet current demand. However, before the utility can move
to this stage, it needs to reorganize its structure in ways that will promote financial
sustainability, commercial practices and staff accountability.
1.12 IDA's 1994 Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2550-KH) along with
Dutch assistance helped rehabilitate systems in five other provincial towns (Kampot,
Kampong Chain, Svay Rieng, Prey Veng and Takhmao), which have doubled the
population with access to piped water--from an average of 15 percent to 33 percent--and
generally improved water quality and hours of service. But they still only operate eight
or less hours a day and produce water quality below WHO standards (see Annex 1 for a
description of progress at the Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville utilities).
1. .13 Although the physical rehabilitation of the water systems completed to date has
been essential, the key element in the utilities' dramatic progress has been the motivation
of dedicated staff to acquire skills and information. Before 1993, PPWSA had only five
engineers, while the other water utilities did not even have staff who could read meters.
By 1994, PPWSA had 21 engineers and 28 trained technicians, completed the
computerization of its billing and collections, and created a program to address
distribution problems.
1.14  The progress is especially impressive given the country's severe constraints.
First, the trade embargo of the 1980s restricted Cambodia's access to materials and
equipment (such as good quality pipes) that were needed to maintain the infrastructure.
Second, years of centralized managerial and administrative practices had emphasized
conformity, discouraged individual initiative and separated the incentives to perform
from productivity. Moreover, until recently, the water utilities were run as government
departments with no financial or operational autonomy: PPWSA was an arm of the
Municipality of Phnom Penh, under the Governor's control, its revenues were pooled
with general municipal funds, and municipal authorization was needed for all operational



4
expenditures. Third, and more fundamentally, no legal or regulatory framework existed
to guide policy and practice.'
C.   GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND POLICY
1.15 The Government approach to the sector is presented in its First Socio-Economic
Development Plan, 1996-2000, which accords water and sanitation a high priority, both
to tackle one of the root causes of poverty and to improve public health. It allots US$160
million to the sector over the period (see Table 1.2).
Table 1.2: Plan Outlay for Water & Sanitation (US$ million)
Water       Sanitation       Total
Phnom Penh                            83.2           12.4          95.6
Other urban areas                     25.4           0.6           26.0
Rural areas                           30.9           7.5           38.4
Total                                 139.5          20.5          160.0
Source: First Socio-Economic Development Plan, 1996-2000
1.16  According to the document, PPWSA will become a self-sustaining commercial
entity, based on full cost recovery, and meet WHO standards for water quality. For their
part, provincial water utilities will develop technical expertise and become financially
self-sustaining. The strategy is to transform these utilities into autonomous, commercial
institutions that will serve at least 70 percent of residential consumers and the majority of
industrial and commercial consumers.
1.17  The Plan also describes long-term objectives for sanitation and wastewater
disposal, which will be increasingly important as water supply in the towns increases.
For Phnom Penh, it proposes to develop a strategy for collecting and treating sewage,
septage and surface run-off from low-lying areas, so that new infrastructure can be both
financed and maintained in a cost-effective and sustainable manner. However, before an
investment program can be developed, sanitation policies must be devised that designate'
the roles and responsibilities of PPWSA, the municipality, households and neighborhoods
in terms of choosing service levels, financing investments and operating and maintaining
the systems. The strategy for the provincial towns will be developed after experience is
gained from Phnom Penh.
1.18  During the Plan period, the Government aims to rehabilitate and expand water
supply in Phnom Penh, develop technical and operational expertise, and establish a legal
basis for converting PPWSA into a fully commercial, financially self-supporting water
For example, there is no overall water law; all that exists are some normative standards for providing
service.



5
utility. The goal is similar for the 22 provincial towns, which would ultimately be
expected to supply water to at least 75 percent of the population.
1.19 With respect to policy, the Government passed an irnportant law on the General
Status of Public Enterprises, in June 1996; it affects their operation, governance and
supervision, and grants them independent legal status and a degree of financial autonomy.
However, these entities were still subject to various State controls and placed under a
'tutelle' Ministry (see Annex 2). Then, in December 1996, the Government approved
Decree No. 52, which established PPWSA as a public enterprise and obliged it to operate
according to commercial practices and prepare annual business plans. Specifically, the
Decree was designed to:
(a)   End the pooling of PPWSA's revenues and expenditures with the
municipality, which was a major disincentive to the utility;
(b)   Make Government financial support to the utility more transparent, as
PPWSA would now be a specific item in the national budget;
(c)   Empower the utility to cut off all public and private customers for non-
payment;
(d)   Enable PPWSA to charge Government/administrative consumers
prevailing tariffs; and
(e)   Empower it to develop its own personnel policies, including incentives for
higher productivity.
1.20 Although the law only provided limited autonomy and fell short of the ideal (as
discussed in Annex 2), given the country's administrative, regulatory, and political
constraints, it was an important first step. More important, by transforming PPWSA into
a commercial enterprise that will respond to consumer demand, the Government has
signaled its commitment to reforming the sector. Further, the lessons from PPWSA's
current projects will be invaluable when the Government restructures the other urban
water utilities.
1.21  At present, senior policy-makers agree the country needs a national strategy for
sustainable and cost-effective urban water supply and sanitation services. Also, they
recognize the institutions need to be rationalized so consumer preferences and willingness
to pay form the basis of service. To this end, the Government has moved to simplify the
daunting maze of sectoral responsibilities by creating a Coordinating Committee of senior
representatives from the ministries involved (MIME, Rural Development, Public Works
and Transport, Environment, Economy and Finance), and from the Council for the
Development of Cambodia and the Phnom Penh Municipality. Its task is to recommend a
medium-long term sectoral strategy.
1.22 Chaired by MIME's senior representative, the Committee will identify the best
course to streamline the sector institutions and prepare a statement on:



6
(a)   The responsibilities of principal stakeholders, including government
agencies, water utilities, the private sector and consumers with respect to
the urban water supply;
(b)   Ways to administer the utilities at the lowest level possible;
(c)    Legal and regulatory structures that delineate roles and responsibilities of
national sectoral agencies, and support the new sector policies;
(d)   The manner in which PPWSA and other urban utilities will become self-
financing and operate according to commercial principles;
(e)    Ways for the national budget to assist low-income consumers;
(f)    Mechanisms to coordinate donor support to the sector;
(g)   Mechanisms to set and regulate tariffs; and
(h)   The sector's overall investment strategy.
1.23 As a first step, the Government sent a letter to IDA in April 1997 (Annex 3)
which confirmed its goal to increase the availability of water and sanitation services,
according to user demand; also, that it endorsed the principle that water should be treated
as an economic good, and should be managed at the lowest administrative level
appropriate. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Goverrnent will (a)
present a strategy for the development of water supply and sanitation services in
Cambodia by December 31, 1999, and furnish a formal statement of sector policy
acceptable to IDA by December 31, 2000; and (b) furnish IDA, at mid-term review, a
report on the progress achieved in applying its provisions.
D.    KEY ISSUES
1.24  The sector currently faces four related issues:
*  Inadequate service. Water supply is inadequate throughout the country, and
sanitation coverage is even lower. This presents enormous obstacles to
improving public health and expanding industrial activity.
*  Inadequate response to consumer demand. With more stable political
conditions, demand for water has increased. But, because coverage is
inadequate, users have turned to expensive private alternatives: Vendor-
supplied water in Phnom Penh is about 10 times PPWSA's average tariffs.2
2
2   In the provincial towns of Kompong Speu, Bantey Menchey and Takeo, demand is so great that
private investors are currently negotiating with MIME to supply water services at substantially higher
tariffs than the public sector rates.



7
Limited institutional capacity. This profoundly affects all aspects of the
water systems. The country has few water supply/sanitary engineers3 or staff
trained in management, finance and accounting. Further, water utilities do not
have enough staff with basic skills, such as the ability to read water meters or
repair plumbing equipment. Thus, those with skills and experience are
severely stretched.
* Inefficient, fragmented institutions. As mentioned earlier, responsibilities
stretch across various agencies, which delays decision-making and leads to
high transaction costs, duplicated efforts, and perverse incentives.
E.    LESSONS LEARNED
1.25  The proposed project is IDA's first investment in Cambodia's water sector.
However, previous and on-going IDA-financed projects in the country, which include the
Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2550-KH), the UNDP/World Bank TA Project
for Water Utilities (CMB/91/007), the Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project (Credit
2782-KH) and the Social Fund (Credit KH-PE-37088), offer important insights into
problem areas. These include: (a) a lack of familiarity with IDA procurement procedures;
(b) delayed and inadequate counterpart funds; (c) weak implementation capacity; and (d)
weak coordination among the principal donors (especially Japan, France, the Netherlands,
Germany, the EU and the ADB). Further, the Final Report of the Joint Ex-Post
Evaluation Mission of the Water Utilities TA Project identified PPWSA's lack of
financial and management autonomy as the most important constraint and stressed that
projects should not be based on promises of reform. Thus, the issue of PPWSA's
autonomy was addressed during project preparation.
1.26 Issues described in the Bank's Water Resources Policy Framework, which is
based on Bank experience in the sector, were addressed during project design. For
example, the Framework suggests that services will most likely be sustained if they are
consistent with what consumers want and are willing to pay for, and managed at the
lowest administrative level possible. More detailed lessons were summarized in the
Bank's 1992 OED report on water and sanitation, which stressed the need for
environmentally sustainable strategies, improved economic analysis, managerial
autonomy and arms-length regulations; also, that covenants requiring critical actions
should be included sparingly in loan/credit agreements. Instead, it noted that key
institutional and organizational changes need to be made before a project begins. Further,
a 1994 OED study on the Operation and Maintenance of Urban Water and Sanitation
identified three instruments to improve effectiveness and instill commercial discipline in
public agencies: corporatization, explicit contracts, and effective regulatory arrangements
to ensure that water pricing policies result in full cost recovery. These issues apply to the
3  It is estimated that there are no more than 30.



8
proposed project, and the policy component will develop the best course through which
to address them, based on the project experience and global best practices.
1.27 The main lesson from project preparation was that technical assistance for
transferring knowledge and skills must be offered at a level and gradual pace that fits
with staff capacities. Indeed, it was found that because of PPWSA staffs high level of
motivation, the pace has been steady and predictable. Thus, the project has included a
combination of hardware and software investments that can leverage fundamental
changes in the sector.
1.28 The decision to focus on PPWSA and SWSA grew out of lessons from both
project preparation and other technical assistance efforts in the Cambodian water sector.
By first promoting changes in the relatively sophisticated PPWSA and SWSA, policy
makers can get a sense of what will work in terms of conditionalities and policy reforms.
Experiences from these two will form the basis for reforming sector policies and
institutions; the statement of sector policy will not be due until 18 months after the credit
becomes effective.
F.    RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.29  In general, the proposed project is consistent with the objectives of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board in February 1997, which identifies
rehabilitation of infrastructure as a priority area for IDA assistance to Cambodia.
1.30 Also, the Bank's Water Resources Management Policy states it "will give priority
to countries where water is scarce or where the problems of water allocation, service
efficiency or environmental degradation are serious." While water allocation is not yet a
major issue in Cambodia, the country clearly fits the other criteria.
1.31   Specifically, the rationale for IDA involvement is that while the sector has
received sizable external assistance--far more than what IDA has given or proposes in this
project--the sector still needs more investment capital. Indeed, unless Phnom Penh's
water supply is expanded immediately, other transmission and distribution projects in
different parts of the city, assisted by the ADB and Japan, will not be sustainable.
1.32  Equally important, authorities must work out and fine-tune the sector policies,
before the water utilities can respond to the pent-up demand for service:4 It was only with
a recently approved ADB project that the issue of tariff hikes for Phnom Penh was
tackled as a condition of the loan. However, other issues have not been adequately
addressed and IDA's global experience in the sector can make the crucial difference
between success and failure of Cambodia's policy reforms. The unresolved issues are
how best to:
4   So far, the largest inflow of external assistance in the sector has been from bilateral sources, and these
have focused on specific investments, technical and training support to the water utilities.



9
(a) Expand and sustain water supply in Phnom Penh and provincial cities;
(b) Reduce the water utilities' dependence on donor and Government assistance;
(c) Involve consumers in decision-making; and
(d) Expand sanitation services in a cost-effective and environmentally sustainable
manner.
G.   RATIONALE FOR THE PROJECT
1.33 The project focuses on Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, the country's two largest
cities, because a significant share of the urban population lives there and, in the case of
Phnom Penh, its water utility is more capable than those in the provincial towns. Thus, it
has the best chance of demonstrating that service can be sustained when appropriate
policies are adopted and investments are well funded. Also, the city accounts for a
twelfth of Cambodia's population, and the number is rising with in-migration. Also,
from a low base, PPWSA has improved coverage and efficiency (see Annex 1), is the
country's best-run water utility, and has enough capacity to implement and sustain the
proposed investments. However, far more of the residents need to be covered, service
must be sustainable and the utility's capacity must be profoundly improved. Besides
having the second largest population, Sihanoukville is Cambodia's major port, has the
greatest potential for industrial, touristic and commercial growth, and faces problems
typical of provincial towns. Thus, the lessons learned will provide important examples
on how to expand service and commercialize operations along the lines described in the
First Socio-Economic Development Plan.
1.34  During project preparation, three alternative strategies were considered with
respect to sequencing. One was to delay physical investments until the institutional and
policy framework had been worked out. However, this was rejected because: (a) water
supply conditions in urban areas are critical and delaying investments would harm the
urban population, especially the poorest; (b) since the IDA credit, designed to finance
investments at Phnom Penh's water treatment plant, will complement the ADB and
Japanese investments in distribution systems in other parts of the city, delays would
threaten the sustainability of these on-going projects.
1.35 A second was to develop institutional and regulatory measures, together with the
Government, that would facilitate private sector participation. However, this was
considered premature because the economic, legal and regulatory environment5 must be
clarified before private firms will be interested in participating. A third was to expand the
project scope to include sanitation investments, but this was rejected because it would
entail complex project design and financing arrangements. Instead, the project will help
the Government guide sanitation investments in a cost effective manner once the
institutional foundations have been laid.
It is thought that private sector interest in the Cambodian water sector will increase once the project's
institutional objectives are accomplished.



10
2. THE PROJECT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The objectives of the proposed project are to:
a) Improve drinking water coverage and quality in Cambodia's two largest cities
on the basis of effective demand;
b) Improve the water utilities' technical and economic performance;
c) Widen the availability of (non-drinking) water for commercial and industrial
purposes so as to spur economic growth and ensure the utilities' viability;
d) Help the Government develop a long-term investment program based on well-
articulated water and sanitation policies.
2.2   To achieve these objectives, the credit will finance a first phase of investment in
much needed physical infrastructure, and provide technical assistance for strengthening
sector institutions and water utility management in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville.
B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.3   The proposed Urban Water Supply Project will be implemented over the five-
year period, 1998-2002, in three components. It will: (a) expand water supply in Phnom
Penh and strengthen PPWSA; (b) expand water supply in Sihanoukville and strengthen
SWSA, and thus provide a model for other provincial towns; and (c) develop and
implement water and sanitation policies for the whole sector.
Component 1: Expansion of Phnom Penh's Water Supply (base cost US$ 29.17 million).
2.4   This component includes five sub-components and will increase the quantity of
treated water in Phnom Penh by expanding the facilities' physical capacity and improving
efficiency. The city's water system has a distribution network of about 307 km of pipes
(80 percent are over 40 years old), two pumping stations, five reservoirs with a total
capacity of 24,500 cu. m/day, and two treatment plants: Phum Prek and Chamcar Mom,
rehabilitated with Japanese and French assistance, can produce 100,000 cu. m/day and
10,000 cu. in/day, respectively. The total of 110,000 cu. m/day is completely utilized. A
third treatment plant--the Chruoy Chang War--on the bank of the Mekong River, has not
operated since 1983 due to damaged raw water mains and deteriorated facilities.



11
2.5   Subcomponent 1: Water treatment plant. In 1996, the city needed over
190,000 cu. m/day for its population of about 1 million--which was 80,000 cu. m/day
more fian what was available. At prevailing tariffs, demand is expected to rise to
245,000 cu. m/day by 2000, which means capacity needs to expand by more than 130,000
cu. m/day. Although these projections do not consider the price elasticity of demand,
when combined with the current low coverage, they suggest the system urgently needs to
be enlarged. To this end, PPWSA proposes to rehabilitate and extend the Chruoy Chang
War water treatment plant, which will be able to produce another 65,000 cu. m/day.
Obviously, this will not meet the city's needs; rather, it will only satisfy immediate
demand. However, capacity will not be expanded further until the effect of increased
tariffs on demand is understood.
2.6   The feasibility study for the treatment process at the Chruoy Chang War plant
evaluated three alternatives: (a) rehabilitating/replacing the existing facility; (b)
rehabilitating/replacing most of the structures; and (c) constructing a new treatment plant
elsewhere. It concluded that alternative "b" offered the most cost-efficient course, and
possibilities for future expansion.
2.7   Prelirninary engineering designs, prepared by consultants and reviewed by
PPWSA and independent consultants, analyzed soil, topographical and hydrological
conditions, characteristics of the raw water, and the existing structures. IDA has also
reviewed them and found them satisfactory. Detailed designs for this subcomponent will
form part of a turnkey contract for design, supply, construction, installation and testing.
The subcomponents also provide for consultants to supervise construction. This sub-
component will finance:
a) Construction of new sedimentation tanks, rapid gravity sand filters and a clear
water reservoir as well as mechanical and electrical equipment to produce
65,000 cu. m of potable water per day;
b) Rehabilitation of other existing structures, including all connecting pipes,
drains and roads, fencing and lighting;
c) Construction of a new accommodation block and flow meter house;
d) Rehabilitation of two high-level reservoirs;
e) Laying of 2.5 km of 800 mm diameter transmission mains to the city network;
and
f) A crossing of the Tonle Sap River by attaching pipes to an existing bridge.
2.8   Subcomponent 2: Pipes, ancillary and leak detection equipment. The
component includes about 85 km of pipes and fittings to provide water in the southern
district of Chamcar Morn. The pipes will form the secondary and tertiary network. IDA
has reviewed PPWSA's bidding documents to procure pipes and ancillary equipment and
found them satisfactory. The component will also help finance leak detection equipment



12
to tackle the problem of UFW. Specifications and quantities will be finalized during
execution, in consultation with technical assistance personnel.
2.9   Subcomponent 3: Pilot program for financing domestic connections. Phnom
Penh's water distribution system is characterized by single connections that serve several
households. This can be difficult for the poor, since neighbors often charge a high price,
well above the official tariff, also, the practice creates public health hazards, because the
receptacles used to store water are usually unclean. Surveys have found that a main
reason for the relatively small number of individual house connections is the amount of
the connection fee, which is large when compared to household income. Thus, the project
will include a pilot program whereby funds would be offered at market interest rates to
partially finance the connections and would be repaid through the water bill . If the pilot
succeeds, repayments could feed into a revolving fund for additional connections, as
PPWSA expands coverage.
2.10 Subcomponent 4: Technical assistance to improve operational and financial
performance. PPWSA has already made impressive gains in reducing the level of
unaccounted for water (UFW), through bilateral assistance from France. However, the
project will finance a specialist to help the utility lower the level even more. Another
consultant will be funded to help PPWSA improve its financial management, billing,
collections, cost control and general accounting system. Similarly, the project will
finance a computer technician/training specialist, and a water quality expert. This
component has been designed so as to avoid overlap with the TA provided by ADB and
the Japanese government.
2.11  Subcomponent 5: Twinning arrangements to develop PPWSA capacity.
Although PPWSA staff are extremely motivated and have dramatically improved the
utility's performance in the last couple years, their effort has been largely individualistic
and ad-hoc. The absence of a corporate culture has been because of the destruction of
virtually the entire institutional memory during the civil war years, when all records were
destroyed. In addition, during the years of civil war, while water supply was erratic and of
uncertain quality, consumers were given free access through the 1900 public underground
tanks constructed during the Khmer Rouge era. The significant weakness of capacity is
the absence of a working environment that promotes professional growth and encourages
transparency. Instead, progress has been entirely due to the dedicated work by a few
committed staff, which has introduced basic organizational and maintenance procedures
in an essentially ad-hoc fashion. To remedy this, the project includes a twinning
arrangement with an Australian water utility with a proven track record of serving its
customers efficiently; staff will be able to work with counterparts from this commercial
utility--both in Australia and in Phnom Penh--that uses state-of-the-art management
practices, and learn on what it takes to operate a water utility based on sound commercial
practices. Funding for the initial phase (US$250,000) has been provided by the
Australian Aid for the Mekong Basin Financing Facility. Areas of particular interest will
be in developing organizational incentives for tackling the UFW problem, improving



13
billing and collections systems, responding quickly to consumer complaints, and
publishing an Annual report on utility performance.
2.12 The effectiveness of the twinning will be evaluated at the end of the first year,
when it will be decided if it should be continued or expanded. If the decision is to
continue, choice of the twin will be made according to World Bank procurement
procedures. At this stage, the arrangement could be widened to include SWSA.
2.13  The project will also support the establishment and operation of a training center
for the water and sanitation sector. The center will provide courses using PPWSA/UPWS
staff and visiting experts, rather than retain a team of trainers. Courses that are not
specific to the water sector (such as English, bookkeeping, etc.) will be outsourced
through service contracts. It will also finance some equipment and the services of visiting
experts.
Component 2: Expansion of Sihanoukville Water Supply (base cost US$3.50 million)
2.14 Until now, provincial utilities have focused on rehabilitating their facilities, and
Sihanoukville has completed this stage: Refurbished under the UNDP/World Bank
project, the SWSA now meets WHO quality standards of treatment. However, the supply
still falls far short of demand during the dry season and in general, serves only 11 percent
of the city's 47,000 residents. To make matters worse, trends indicate the population will
grow rapidly by the early part of the next century. Thus, the component will enable
SWSA to increase the quantity of treated water by 400 percent, and adopt sensible pricing
policies to reduce UFW even more. Further, technical assistance will help the utility
restructure into a commercial enterprise.
2.15 The city's water supply source is a small shallow lake held in place by a small
weir with a crest about 3.5 m above sea level. It can meet existing demand during the wet
season (May to October), but the level drops by as much as three meters during the dry
season, at which point the supply is just half of what is needed. And, while the city's
water treatment plant, built in the 1950s, has a capacity of 8,000 cubic meters a day, the
distribution system only extends for 27km. As a result, most residents obtain water from
a local delivery service that draws and supplies it--untreated--from the lake.
2.16 Water supply is critical, since Sihanoukville has a great potential for growth and
employment in the industrial and service sector (including tourism), and is key to the
country's economy. To meet this potential, investments under the project would be made
in several areas, so as to increase the daily supply to 5,200 cubic meters. This would
involve raising the reservoir's level to allow a draft of 2,100 cubic meters a day, to cover
losses incurred during treatment and transmission.
2.17 Construction Works. The lake presents several problems that project works will
resolve. First, the level will be raised through the construction of a new weir crest against
the existing bridge abutments; this will increase the storage by around 100,000 cu. m,
allowing an extra 500 cu. m per day of dry season off-take. Second, the weir (which is a



14
low-cost intervention) will reduce the current outflow of groundwater that geological
investigations have identified to be an amount even greater than the daily withdrawal
(2,100 cu. m). Afterwards, the draft could be increased (and sustained) by about 1,100 cu.
rn/day.
2.18  Besides work on the lake, the project will construct new wells that will provide an
extra 1,500 cu. m/day. Finally, it will expand access to water through the construction of
tanker filling stations and water selling points. This component, which includes
consulting services for design and construction supervision, will involve:
a) Increasing the storage volume of the raw water lake by raising the outlet weir
and sealing off the sand spit;
b) Constructing four new groundwater wells and related works, including a
deferrination plant;
c) Connecting wells to the distribution network, including the supply and laying
of pipes;
d) Improving the distribution system, including procuring and laying pipes and
fittings, and establishing tanker filling and water selling points;
e) Improving the treatment plant and raw water pumping station; and
f) Building another high-level reservoir within the distribution system.
2.19 Technical assistance for Sihanoukville. The component will finance technical
assistance and studies for the UPWS, including: (a) a project engineer to help with overall
planning and management; (b) accounting and computer experts; (c) a procurement
specialist; (d) a training specialist; (e) a socio-economic survey to establish the customer
base and level of effective demand for water service; (f) engineering advice to check the
design of the groundwater deferrination plant and expansion of the reticulation system;
and (g) studies on long-term water sources.
2.20 The primary purpose of the TA consultants, who will be based in Sihanoukville,
will be to help SWSA improve its operations. However, the SWSA effort will be a
model for other provincial water utilities to move from rehabilitating facilities to
introducing commercial operations. Thus the TA consultants will help MIME's UPWS
strengthen other provincial utilities (see Annex 7 for details of the Sihanoukville
component).
Component 3: Developing Water Supply and Sanitation Policy (base cost US$2.08 million)
2.21  In general, the project attempts to address both sector-wide and utility-specific
institutional issues, which are highly connected. In this report, interventions aimed at
improving institutional capacity and efficiency within the entire sector are covered under
this component; those specifically directed to PPWSA and MIME/SWSA are described
under the technical assistance components and the respective annexes.



15
2.22 This component will help the Government create institutions that can maintain
and expand service in an efficient, equitable, and sustainable manner, consistent with
public demands. However, it is the most important and difficult component in terms of
design and implementation. Cambodia is a post-Communist transition economy, and
attempts at sector reform to date have faced ideological positions that are changing, but
only gradually. Thus, the component has to balance what is optimal from IDA's point of
view, and what is possible. Excessive emphasis on the former could well lead to the
whole reform package being shelved, at high cost to the economy, while too much
attention to the latter would make the project unsustainable. Another obstacle is the
limited policy-making capacity at the national agencies. While staff at utilities like
PPWSA have acquired considerable knowledge through practical experience, those at
most ministries are not yet capable of integrating technical, financial, institutional and
economic aspects into a coherent sector policy. Thus, technical assistance will provide
consultants to the Government and help defray the costs of seminars (organized through
EDI).
2.23 The interventions proposed will help the Government develop the policy
framework for water supply and sanitation, and identify future investment priorities and
possible sources of financing.
Consultant Support to RGC
2.24 Water policy consultant. The project will finance a water policy consultant to
help the Government prepare a draft sector policy paper for water and sanitation (see
Annex 8 for outline terms of reference). The consultant will build on the results of the
first EDI serninar and the April 1997 letter of sector objectives. The Government has
requested that, once the paper is completed, another EDI seminar will be organized in
Phnom Penh to discuss the document. During negotiations, assurance was obtained from
the Government by December 31, 1999, it will develop a national strategy for water and
sanitation service provisioning, and that it will enunciate by December 31, 2000, a formal
statement of sector policy acceptable to IDA, which will form the basis of future sector
investments.
2.25 A key element in the proposed sector policy will be defining an approach to set
and revise tariffs in Phnom Penh and the provincial towns. The Government has
committed itself to the goals of setting tariffs that recover costs, helping water utilities
become commercially viable and respond to consumer demand, and developing
institutional/regulatory arrangements by which tariffs can be revised on the basis of
transparent criteria. The sector policy statement will set out the criteria in detail. It will
also describe institutional arrangements that are transparent and sound, and consider the
incentives needed for agencies to act in an economically efficient manner.
2.26 Institutional consultant. As a follow up to the EDI seminar and the policy
formulation, the project will finance an institutional consultant to help translate the sector
policy into specific actions (see Annex 8 for terms of reference). The aim is to produce a



16
rational, well-defined policy-making structure, establish clear rules for operational
autonomy within the legal framework, and create mechanisms for utilities' accountability
to consumers and other stakeholders.
2.27 Sanitation and wastewater management study. The project will finance a
study for Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville that will focus on providing services based on
what consumers want and will pay for, and managing operations at the lowest
administrative level possible. The study will recommend a cost-effective solution to
urban pollution caused by untreated human waste, which could form the basis of national
policy on sanitation and wastewater management (see Annex 9 for terms of reference).
2.28 EDI Seminars. As part of project preparation, the World Bank's Economic
Development Institute held a seminar on water sector policy in Phnom Penh in March
1997 that exposed policy makers to current thinking, successful models from the rest of
the world, and various options. It also helped policy makers develop a consensus about a
vision for the future. As a result, the Government asked EDI to hold further seminars
where professionals could share information and discuss the draft policy document to be
prepared under the credit.
Summary
2.29  The issues described above were based on discussions during project preparation.
However, as other issues will surface during implementation, the assistance package
needs to be flexible. Emphasis will be on learning by doing and incorporating lessons as
the project progresses. Already, the Government took two important steps, which
demonstrate its commitment to the project's goals. First, it passed a decree that granted
PPWSA autonomy. Second, it established an inter-ministerial mechanism to coordinate
the sector (the Coordinating Committee for Water and Sanitation), which will oversee the
component.
2.30 The approach will involve a two-fold strategy. First, it will engage key
stakeholders in a continuing dialogue on policy (such as setting water tariffs,
commercializing utilities and financing operations), while learning about what works in
the PPWSA and SWSA components. Second, it will ensure that dialogue occurs at the
same time that a framework of rules and institutions is developed that can provide
sustainable water and sanitation services.
C.   COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Cost
2.31  The total project cost, including taxes, duties and contingencies, is estimated at
Riels 154,565 million or US$41.64 million equivalent. Physical contingencies of 15
percent were added to works, equipment, and various other items. Price contingencies as
shown in Table 2.1 were applied to base costs, including physical contingencies. A



17
constant purchasing parity exchange rate was used to convert US dollar amounts to Riel
equivalents. Table 2.2 summarizes the estimated cost of each component (see Annex 5
for detailed cost tables).
Table 2.1: Price Contingencies and Exchange Rate
1998           1999           2000            2001           2002
Contingency
Local costs         9%              6%             5%             5%              5%
Foreign costs      2.8%           2.8%            2.8%           2.8%            2.8%
Table 2.2: Project Cost Summary
Components:        Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    %       % of
(Riels Million)           (US$ Million)     Foreign Base Costs
Phnom Penh water supply    35,745   63,434   99,179   10.51    18.66    29.17    64.0    84.0
Sihanoukville water supply   2,270    9,640    11,910    0.67  2.84   3.50    81.0    10.0
Assistance to develop a   1,444    5,615    7,060    0.42    1.65     2.08    80.0      6.0
W&S policy framework
Total Base Costs*          39,459   78,690   118,149   11.61    23.14    34.75    67.0    100.0
Physical contingencies   5,472   10,007   15,479    1.61     2.94     4.55    65.0    13.0
Price contingencies      7,666   13,271   20,938    0.88     1.45     2.33    62.0      7.0
Total Project Costs        52,597   101,968  154,565   14.10    27.54    41.64    66.0    120.0
* Including taxes and duties of about US$ 5.16 million equivalent
Financing Plan
2.32 The IDA credit would be lent to the RGC at standard terms, including a 40-year
maturity period, 10-years grace, standard commitment charge and at a 0.75 percent
service fee. Funds for the Phnom Penh component will be on-lent to PPWSA in local
currency at 8.5 percent fixed per annum, 17-years maturity, and 5-years grace on the
repayment of principal. The RGC would assume the foreign exchange risk. Assurances
were obtained that it will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with PPWSA, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. SWSA's loan will be assumed by MIME, but will be
recorded on SWSA's books, as if it were an autonomous, commercial enterprise.
2.33   Table 2.3 summarizes the project's net investment requirements and financing
plan after import taxes and levies have been deducted (waived by the RGC) and the
estimated interest during construction included in total project costs. Total net investment
requirements are estimated at US$39.79 million, of which the IDA credit will finance
approximately 77.8 percent or US$30.96 million. PPWSA will essentially finance the
remaining net investment through its existing cash balances and internal cash flow
projected for the 5-year implementation period. SWSA will assume a small share of the
investment requirements-the interest during construction--on its portion of the credit.



18
Table 2.3: Financing Plan (US$ million):
1998  1999  2000  2001  2002 Total Percent
Investment Requirements
Project costs              2.23  20.10  13.15   3.98   2.18  41.64  104.7%
Less import taxes and duties  0.33   2.68   1.77   0.55   0.31   5.64   14.2%
Net Project Costs          1.90  17.42  11.38   3.43   1.87  36.00   90.5%
Interest during construction  0.06   0.66   1.51   1.04   0.52   3.79    9.5%
Total Requirements         1.96  18.08  12.89   4.47   2.39  39.79  100.0%
Financing Plan
IDA                         1.70  16.64   9.96   2.53   0.13  30.96   77.8%
PPWSA                      0.26   1.43   2.89   1.91   2.26   8.75   22.0%
SWSA                       0.00   0.02   0.03   0.03    -   0.08    0.2%
Total Financing Sources     1.96  18.08  12.89   4.47   2.39  39.79  100.0%
D.    PROCUREMENT
2.34 Procurement would be carried out according to the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, revised in January and August
1996 (see Table 2.4 and Annex 11 for procurement arrangements). The total cost of
items described includes their share of physical and price contingencies and taxes and
duties. Standard bidding documents and a standard bid evaluation report will be used for
procurement of works and goods under international competitive bidding (ICB).
2.35   The largest contract (estimated at $23.73 million) will be for the turnkey detailed
design, supply, installation, construction, and commissioning of the Chruoy Chang War
Water Treatment Plant, which includes mechanical and electrical equipment. This
contract will follow ICB procedures and bidders were pre-qualified under Bank pre-
qualification procedures; pre-qualification and bidding documents for the turnkey
contract were prepared by PPWSA and cleared by IDA. ICB procedures will also be
used for certain works and supply-and-installation activities ($2.86 million) on the
Sihanoukville water supply component, and for the supply and delivery of pipes and
fittings for the works ($2.71 million) in the Chamcar Mom District of Phnom Penh;
bidding documents for pipes and fittings were prepared by PPWSA and cleared by IDA.
For procurement under ICB procedures, domestic goods, plant and equipment would be
allowed a preference margin of 15 percent of CIF or the amount of customs duties,
whichever is lower, for bid evaluation. PPWSA will finance US$5.08 million equivalent
to install the pipes and related works in the secondary and tertiary network, which will be
procured under PPWSA procedures.
2.36 A general procurement notice was published on August 16, 1996 in Development
Business. A pre-qualification notice for rehabilitation and extension of the water
treatment plant and a specific procurement notice for the supply and delivery of pipes and
fittings were issued on June 16, 1997 in Development Business. In addition, specific



19
procurement notices will be posted for all consultant contracts exceeding $200,000. No
mandatory associations between foreign and local consultants will be permitted.
Table 2.4: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Procurement Method                  NIF2               Total
ICB               Other'
1. Turnkey contract for Chruoy             23.73                  -                                 23.73
Chang War WTP rehabilitation            (20.61)                -                 -               (20.61)
2. Other civil works3                       2.86                  -               5.375              8.23
(2.45)                                                  (2.45)
3. Equipment                                2.71                0.63              0.046              3.38
(2.39)             (0.56)                               (2.95)
4. Consultants
A. Construction supervision                  -                 1.21                -                1.21
-               ((1.10)                             (1.10)
B. TA                                        -                 3.40             0.227               3.62
-               (3.08)                               (3.08)
5. Revolving funds for the pilot              -                 0.30                -                0.30
domestic-connection program                   -                (0.26)               -               (0.26)
(0.26)
6. Training                                   -                 0.58                -                0.58
(0.51)                               (0.51)
7. Incremental operating costs4                                                   0.299              0.29
6. Land acquisition                                                               0.30               0.30
Total                                       29.30               6.12              6.22               41.64
_    (25.45)              (5.51)                              (30.96)
Figures in parentheses represent amount financed by the IDA Credit
Procurement arrangement by each component is presented in Annex 11.
'Includes national shopping, intemational shopping and engagement of consultants
2 Not-IDA financed
Includes supply & installation contracts of Sihanoukville component and PPWSA's contribution for the installation of pipes
for the secondary and tertiary network in the southem district of Chamcar Mom.
4 Includes maintenance and insurance costs for computer equipment, reallocation compensation, communication costs, and local
staff costs.
5 PPWSA will finance USS5.08 million equivalent to instaul pipes for the secondary and tertiary network in the southem district
of Chamcar Mom, US$160,000 equivalent to construct the training center and US$120,000 to clean the site at Chruoy Chang
War WTP. MIME/SWSA will finance US$13,200 equivalent to improve the access road.
6 PPWSA will finance US$36,000 equivalent for equipment for the training center.
' PPWSA will finance about US$220,000 equivalent for costs of local staff (training expert, computer expert and water quality
expert).
' PPWSA will finance about US$200,000 equivalent for reallocation compensation, computer maintenance & insurance and
local staff (administration staft). MIME/SWSA will finance USS54,600 equivalent for local staff (administration staff). RGC
will finance US$44,000 equivalent for local staff of the Coordinating Committee's secretariat.
2.37 Some urgently needed miscellaneous equipment (e.g. computers and computer
software) will be procured on the basis of national or international shopping as
appropriate on the basis of a minimum of three quotes for individual contracts of less than
US$50,000, with an aggregate value not exceeding US$200,000.



20
2.38 Since PPWSA and SWSA/MIME do not have experience with procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA, the project provides assistance in procurement.
2.39  Cost estimates also contain an allowance for consultants to supervise the
construction of all major works financed under this project. It was agreed at negotiations
that PPWSA and SWSA/MIME will retain consultants for all TA activities under the
credit according to terms of reference and selection procedures acceptable to IDA.
"Quality Based Selection" is being used to select a firm to supervise construction for the
Phnom Penh component (estimated at $930,000); the request for proposals for this
consultancy was prepared by PPWSA and cleared by IDA. In view of the highly
specialized experience required for these positions, the water policy and institutional
consultants would be individual consultants. The technical assistance personnel for
strengthening PPWSA and SWSA would also be selected as individual consultants. All
consultancy services will be procured according to the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997. The Bank's
standard contract form will be used for consultancy services.
2.40 IDA-financed contracts above US$200,000 will be subject to its prior review
procedures. For consultancy contracts, the threshold for prior review will be US$100,000
for firms and US$50,0C0 for individuals. In any event, all TORs, including sole source
selections of consultafrs regardless of the value of contract, will be subject to prior
review. In all, about 94 percent of the total project cost will be subject to prior review.
The post review of contracts will be carried out on the basis of one in three contracts for
goods and works. Procurement information will be collected and recorded from
comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the project coordinator. These reports will
include revised time schedules for procurement actions including advertising, contract
awards and completion time for individual contracts.
E.   DISBURSEMENTS
2.41  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures for the turnkey detailed design, supply,
installation, construction, and commissioning related to the Chruoy Chang War Water
Treatment Plant, including mechanical and electrical equipment; (b) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 30 percent of local expenditures for civil works, including
supply and installation contracts, related to the Sihanoukville component; (c) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials; (d) 100 percent of
expenditures for consulting services; (e) 100 percent of expenditures for the revolving
fund of the pilot domestic connection prograrn; and (f) 100 percent of training
expenditures. The credit will be disbursed against the categories in Table 2.5 (see Annex
12 for disbursement categories by each component and the estimated schedule).



21
Table 2.5: Disbursement Categories
Category            Amount (US$     % Expenditure Financed
million)
Civil works (including supply and
installation contracts)
A. Phnom Penh component           20.61     100 % of Foreign,
50% of Local
B. Sihanoukville component        2.45      100 % of Foreign,
30% of Local
Equipment
A. Phnom Penh component           2.72      100 % of Foreign
B. Sihanoukville component        0.05      100 % of Foreign
C. Policy component               0.18      100 % of Foreign
Consultants
A. Phnom Penh component           1.90      100%
B. Sihanoukville component        0.95      100%
C. Policy component               1.33      100%
Connection fees for pilot revolving  0.26    100%
fund
Training
A. Phnom Penh component           0.38      100%
B. Sihanoukville component        0.13      100%
Total                              30.96
2.42 Full documentation will be required for all contracts for equipment and works
valued at US$200,000 equivalent or more. Disbursements for equipment, works and
costs for implementation support valued at under US$200,000 would be made on the
basis of itemized Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The SOE limit for consultant
services would be US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. The records of
SOE-supported expenditures would be retained and made available to IDA supervision
missions and regularly audited by external auditors acceptable to IDA. For the
Sihanoukville component, the condition for disbursement is that average tariffs should
have been raised to a level that ensures the financial viability of SWSA.
2.43 To facilitate disbursement from the credit, PPWSA and SWSA/MIME will each
open and maintain an IDA Special Account in the National Bank of Cambodia authorized
for this purpose, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. The accounts that cover the IDA share
of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories would each have an authorized
allocation of US$700,000 and US$400,000 equivalent, for PPWSA and SWSA/MIME,
respectively, to be withdrawn from the IDA credit and deposited in the Special Account.



22
Unless IDA agrees otherwise, the authorized allocation will be limited to the equivalent
of US$350,000 and US$200,000 for PPWSA and MIME, respectively, until disbursement
and outstanding commitments against the credit allocated to each component equal or
exceed the SDR equivalent of US$2 million. Applications to replenish the Account,
supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly (not less than
quarterly) or when the amount withdrawn equaled 30 percent of the initial deposit.
2.44  The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002 and the closing date for
the credit would be December 31, 2002. The estimated disbursement schedule is based
on detailed project implementation schedules in various PIPs (as no Bank disbursement
profile exists for water supply projects in Cambodia, the comparison shows the Bank
Standard Disbursement Profile (1995) for water supply and sanitation projects in the East
Asia and Pacific Region').
F.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Implementation
2.45  As the project seeks to build institutional, financial and technical capacity in each
of the implementing agencies, no new project unit will be established. Instead, existing
structures in each agency will be strengthened to implement their respective components
with the help of consultants. In the case of Phnom Penh (see organization chart - Annex
10), PPWSA already has established a project management unit (PMU) under the
managing director, supported by three deputy directors and a team of qualified staff. The
PMU's primary responsibility is to implement three projects: the proposed IDA-financed
project, and the on-going ADB and Japan Government financed projects. In
Sihanoukville, SWSA will implement the project, with support from MIME's UPWS
(also see the organization chart in Annex 10).
2.46 The policy framework for the water and sanitation sector will be based on lessons
from the PPWSA and SWSA components and implemented by the Coordinating
Committee, with secretariat assistance from MIME (see para. 1.21). Additional back-up
support, if required, will be provided by the IDA-financed PMU/Financial Services Unit
in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, where local staff gained experience in project
implementation, including procurement, performance monitoring, and reporting to the
Bank, under the Emergency Rehabilitation Project. Details of the organization and
management of the project are in the project implementation plan, summarized in Annex
11.
The bulk of disbursements will take place through PPWSA, which has a better implementation capacity
than water utilities in provincial towns.



23
Supervision and Monitoring
2.47  Each agency has prepared a set of the performance monitoring indicators for its
respective components, which were agreed upon during negotiations (see Annex 13).
The key indicators cover each component's objectives, major activities and inputs
required, expected outputs, and results/impacts to be monitored during project
implementation. The implementing agencies will submit semi-annual and annual reports
to IDA on the progress of each component. A mid-term review would be carried out after
the project's second year, estimated to be in June 2000, in conjunction with the RGC, the
implementing agencies, and IDA. Its purpose will be to assess progress, particularly with
the policy framework component.
Financial Management
2.48 PPWSA and SWSA accounting, financial management, and cost control capacity
will be strengthened by the project with consultant support. The technical assistance
provided will help the two agencies accomplish their medium-term goal of establishing
commercial operations. Within nine months after the end of each fiscal year, the
implementing agencies will submit to IDA an auditor's report, management report and
audited financial statements for the Special Accounts, Project Accounts and SOEs for the
preceding calendar year, audited by an external auditor acceptable to IDA. The audit will
ensure that: (a) proper accounting and audit procedures were maintained by both
organizations throughout the year; (b) a sufficient flow of funds contributed to the
utilities' investment programs throughout the year; (c) the utilities' profit and loss
accounts fairly assess the year's trading results; (d) the balance sheet provides a fair
assessment of the current value of their assets and liabilities; and (e) both will be able to
meet their commitments over the ensuing year.
2.49 After PPWSA and Phnom Penh Municipality agree on the composition of
PPWSA's assets and liabilities, the latest balance sheets, and profit and loss accounts, it
will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, financed under the credit.
The purpose will be to prepare a base assessment of the utility's financial position and
determine its capacity to meet commitments under the project. This audit will probably
necessitate a revaluation of the assets held by each organization. The same exercise will
be performed for SWSA.
2.50 During negotiations, the ROC agreed that by December 31, 1998, it would cause a
revaluation of the assets of PPWSA and SWSA to be carried out, along with the initial
audits of each entity. An understanding was reached that independent auditors will be
appointed for this purpose. Agreement was also reached that the RGC would monitor the
progress of the project according to the agreed performance indicators, and fiumish IDA
semi-annual progress reports.



24
3. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   INTRODUCTION
3.1   The financial analysis of the Project involved: (1) a review of PPWSA and
SWSA operations and (2) a review of the project and debt service of the two stand-alone
investment components. A fully integrated financial model was developed to support the
analyses, particularly for projecting and assessing financial outcomes. Emphasis was
given to ascertaining the adequacy of tariff levels in order to fully recover costs as well as
evaluating the ability of the water authorities to meet performance improvement targets.
Special attention was given to PPWSA's ability to achieve targets for reducing UFW.
3.2   The Phnom Penh component forms part of PPWSA's much larger program to
expand the supply and efficiently distribute water. Besides the proposed Bank-funded
project to renovate the Chruoy Chang War water treatment plant, the program involves
expanding and rehabilitating the transmission and distribution system in other parts of the
city as well as expanding the Chamcar Mom and Phum Prek water treatment plants.
Financing for these investments have, or are currently being, finalized with the ADB, the
Japanese agency JICA, and French aid agencies. Altogether, investments are estimated to
be US$120 million, for the 1996-2002 period.
3.3   Because of the close relationship of these other projects and their benefits to the
project proposed by PPWSA, the financial assessment focused on the combined returns
of the entire investment program by including all the estimated costs, assumed debt and
expected returns in order to evaluate the financial and economic attractiveness of the
planned investments as well as PPWSA's ability to meet current and future debt servicing
requirements. Compared to the Phnom Penh component, the Sihanoukville component is
relatively small and does not rely on the implementation of other projects to achieve its
expected benefits; however, the component is significant, as it will help improve public
health and general living standards, and increase industrial output.
B.   OVERVIEW OF CURRENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
3.4   Financial and operating highlights for 1996 for PPWSA and SWSA are as
follows:



25
Table 3.1: Financial and Operation Performance of PPWSA and SWSA
Indicator                 Phnom Penh                Sihanoukvillel
Total revenues                 Riels 13.5 billion        Riels 393 million
Net income (loss) before       Riels 2.5 billion        (Riels 33 million)
depreciation
Net income (loss)            (Riels 724.4 million)            NA
Total assets                  Riels 264 billion2         Riels 997 million
Total debt                    Riles 11.6 billion
Total capital                 Riels 251 billion         Riels 846 million
Water supply capacity        110,000 M3 per day         8,000 M3 per day
Water losses                       57%                       28%
Average tariff rate             895 Riels/cm              868 Riels/cm
Connections                       35,986                      886
Collection efficiency              85%                       95%
3.5    Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority. PPWSA follows conventional accrual
accounting principles. Standard commercial procedures are applied for the accounting of
revenues and expenses as well as fixed assets and debt obligations. PPWSA has
computerized most of its accounting, including the general ledger, billings and
receivables; however, the balance sheet opening positions for the new autonomous
corporation have not yet been finalized pending the reconciliation of the inter-
governmental trade accounts such as trade receivables and payables and outstanding debt.
While some of the debt may be affected by the reconciliation, it is not anticipated to have
a material effect on the financial assessment.
3.6    PPWSA past profit performance has been poor, due to high levels of UFW and
inadequate tariffs. For 1997, the Authority is estimating a net loss of approximately Riels
724 million (US$200,000 equivalent) on revenues of Riels 13.5 billion. However, total
cash flow was positive before depreciation charges. Electricity, maintenance and labor
charges combined made up almost 50 percent of estimated expenses for 1997, while
chemicals accounted for only 5.9 percent. This operating performance is a significant
improvement over 1996, when losses were about $2.0 million; in 1998, it is expected to
improve significantly with the introduction of new tariffs designed to recover all costs.
PPWSA's unaudited financial statements for December 31, 1996 are presented in Annex
15.
3.7    PPWSA's corporatized opening balance sheet position is relatively strong, with
minimal debt to the total level of assets. Total equity at Riels 251 billion comprises
approximately 95 percent of total assets, yielding a debt-to-equity ratio substantially less
than 1. However, it has experienced difficulties in managing its working capital. For
example, inventories, liquid funds and receivables are excessive as are the accounts
payable, particularly to the power supplier, Electricite' de Cambodge. Payments to other
government agencies are also being delayed. These practices have developed partly from
I Figures are for 10 months in 1997. Asset, debt and capital balances are for 1996.
2 Fixed assets were revalued in 1997.



26
the utility's lack of financial autonomy, and the related uncertainties of not having full
control of its financial flows. Now that it has gained corporate autonomy, PPWSA
management assures that commercial practices will be strictly followed, including prompt
disconnection of delinquent accounts.
3.8  Its other major operating obstacle stems from UFW, which historically has been
as high as 80 percent, one of the poorest records in the region. However, during the past
few years, it has made impressive gains by introducing an intensive program to reduce
these losses (see Annex 1): Technical and commercial losses have dropped to
approximately 57 percent. Much higher gains have been demonstrated in PPWSA pilot
areas and even more are expected in the near future, as new investments to rehabilitate
the distribution network, financed by the ADB and Japan, come on-streamn. Technical
assistance is also being made available through existing donor programs and by the
proposed project to further strengthen accounting, financial management and commercial
practices through metering and improved billings and collections.
3.9   Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority.  SWSA's operational performance is
similar to that of PPWSA's, although it is a much smaller and more manageable system.
It is expected to incur a net loss in 1997 despite breaking even on a cash flow basis in
1996, as tariffs have not been sufficient to recover depreciation charges. However, tariffs
were raised to ensure full cost recovery as well as meet projected debt servicing
requirements. Water losses have been kept at respectable levels, averaging about 28
percent or less. Unaudited financial statements for the SWSA for 1996 are summarized in
Annex 15.
3.10 In 1996, fuel and electricity made up 76 percent of expenses, while labor
accounted for 4 percent. Like PPWSA, SWSA holds an excessive level of working
capital, particularly in inventories. Also, it delays its payments to suppliers, which
produces an account that is almost twice that of its receivables. Its balance sheet position
is sound, with no long-term debt on the books; however, its equity position, at $300,000,
particularly the retained earnings, are greatly overstated, since depreciation charges have
not been counted. Its fixed assets could be revalued, based on current prices. While this
would substantially increase SWSA's total value, it would also place added pressure on
management to achieve returns on a more realistically valued asset base. Given the lack
of completeness of SWSA's accounts, its management has assured the Bank it will assess
its assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1997 no latter than December 31, 1998 in
order to ensure more reliable opening positions. These findings will then be used to
monitor project and financial performance targets during project implementation.
C.   FuTuRE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
3.11  Financial projections for both components for the 10-year period 1998-2007 are
presented in Annex 16 along with a description of the underlying assumptions and input
variables. Summaries of projected financial and operating performance for PPWSA and
SWSA are presented below:



27
Table 3.2: Projected financial and operating performance of PPWSA
PPWSA               1998      1999       2000      2001      2002       2003
Total revenues (Riels MM)   16,940    19,861    22,458    31,582     41,598    43,678
Net income (Riels MM)        1,280     2,101     1,829     4,050      6,317       458
Total assets (Riels MM)   319,293    435,314   479,637   497,200    504,756   495,072
Debt/equity ratio (times)3     11.       .28       .38       .39        .35       .32
Average tariff (Riels)        868        920       966      1,014     1,065     1,118
Water losses                 53%        48%       44%       42%        40%       40%
Debt service coverage          na         na      35.7       4.1        2.8       1.3
(times)
Self financing ratio        19.6%      10.2%    25.5%      81.3%     168.3%        na
Service connections        44,655     49,210    52,753    71,744     90,397    90,397
Operating ratio              54%        53%       49%       41%        40%       44%
3.12   PPWSA is likely to experience two critical periods in terms of its future finances
during project implementation. The first will probably surface in 1998 and 1999,
immediately after construction begins; the second will probably arise in 2003, once the
project is completed and placed in service. In that year, the projected debt service is
estimated to reach its highest levels--about Riels 20.5 billion on projected revenues of
Riels 43.7 billion. During 1998-1999, the utility will experience significant pressure to
produce enough counterpart funding through internal cash generation, so as to sustain its
sizable investment program. By contrast, in 2003, the full force of depreciation charges
from new investments, in addition to the debt service requirements, will affect the
utility's income and cash flow, and seriously challenge its capacity to steer through the
financial obstacles. Thus, its future finances will depend on its ability to: (a) maintain
adequate tariffs; (b) realize performance targets for reducing water losses from the current
57 percent to about 40 percent, by 2003; and (c) impose strict controls on discretionary
spending so the operating ratio can gradually improve as the revenue base expands.
3.13   With respect to water losses, significant improvements are anticipated as the ADB
project to rehabilitate the distribution network proceeds. Conversely, tariff levels must
remain positive vis-a-vis expected inflationary pressures and, lacking an independent
regulatory institution, the Government has assured the Bank that a proper and
depoliticized mechanism will be developed to ensure their adequacy in the future. In
addition, PPWSA management has assured the Bank it will try to maintain the following
financial targets during the five-year investment program: (a) an operating ratio of 50
percent or less; (b) a debt service coverage ratio of 1.3 times or better, beginning in
2003; and (c) an average collection period not exceeding 120 days, up to December 31,
1998, and not exceeding 80 days thereafter
3 A debt-to-equity ratio of 1.0 times equates to a capital structure of 50% to 50% equity. Accordingly, a
capital structure of 75% debt to 25% equity equates to a.debt/equity ratio of 3 times.



28
Table 3.3: Projected financial and operating performance of SWSA
SWSA               1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003
Total revenues (Riels MM)     750      1,708     2,658     2,797     2,941     3,088
Net income (Riels MM)          163       782     1,990       550       [53       243
Total assets (Riels MM)      2,494    16,829    19,958    20,897    21,308    21,614
Debtlequity ratio (times)      .67      3.20      2.17      1.98      1.94       1.82
Average tariffs (Riels)      1,353     1,434     1,506     1,581     1,660      1,743
Water losses                   .23       .20       .18       .17       .17       .17
Debt service coverage       1,206.9    113.7    326.6       21.4      11.5      12.6
(times)
Self financing ratio        46.2%      5.6%    232.8%    230.3%    692.4%         na
Service connections           886      1,176     2,329     2,329     2,329     2,329
Operating ratio               76%       59%       44%       65%       65%       64%
3.14 SWSA's finances are projected to be more manageable, both during construction
and once debt service begins on the proposed credit. Partly, this is due to the more
lenient lending terms provided to SWSA. Still, the project is large when compared to
SWSA's total capitalization; thus, the credit will place added pressure on SWSA
management to maintain adequate tariffs and control operating costs. In addition, its debt
will increase significantly, particularly in 1999 and 2000, in the early construction period,
when its capitalization will essentially be all debt.
3.15   Since SWSA is a unit of MIME and not yet corporatized or autonomous, the
project is designed as a pilot, both for it and other provincial water authorities, to test
management's capacity to operate as if it were. Accordingly, the Government and SWSA
agreed to adopt commercial financial performance targets during the implementation of
the credit, as practice for bringing the organization closer to a financially autonomous
status. The agreed targets are: (a) an operating ratio (excluding depreciation and interest
charges) of 60 percent or less; (b) a collection performance of not less than 90 percent; (c)
an average collection period of 60 days or less; and (d) a current ratio of 2:1 or better.
3.16   Given the financial parameters adopted by PPWSA and SWSA and the
performance targets agreed with the Bank, both organizations are expected to record
respectable financial returns on their proposed investments, with calculated financial rates
of return of 13.6 percent and 11.2 percent, respectively.



29
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   PROJECT BENEFITS
Non quantifiable benefits
4.1   One of the main goals of a water supply project is to improve public health and
well-being. Among the most affected by the project will be the poorest, most marginal
and vulnerable segments of the population. These are usually women and children, as
well as transients and urban squatters who illegally occupy peri-urban areas without
public services or live on public land, structures, apartment rooftops, drainage canals,
embankments, and boengs. Because water is unavailable, they often purchase small
amounts from those with water connections or from vendors. They also rely on polluted
streams, rivers and wells to draw water for washing and bathing and are routinely
exposed to health and environmental hazards brought about because of a lack of drainage
and sanitation.
4.2   The impact of contaminated water is profound, as revealed by hospital morbidity
reports. Health problems include not just the diseases associated with lack of clean water,
such as gastro-intestinal or infectious diseases, but also dengue fever and malaria, which
are widespread due to water storage practices. Infants and children are particularly
affected, since exposure to contaminated water has led to one of the highest infant
morbidity and mortality rates in the world; gastro-intestinal and infectious skin diseases
are problems that can be alleviated by improving the quality of and access to water.
Thus, the project will target areas where the poor can benefit the most: schools, hospitals,
and squatter settlement areas, through communal water selling points. For example,
several Sihanoukville schools have no running water for either drinking or sanitation. A
hospital and an orphanage also lack water supply services, and rely on untreated water
supplied by tankers.
4.3  In Phnom Penh, the price of water privately supplied by water tankers and
individuals is estimated to be 10 times PPWSA charges, according to a recent ADB
survey. In Sihanoukville and other provincial towns, price differentials are even higher.
Socio-economic studies reveal that households have an estimated average monthly
income of only US$23, but spend as much as 73 percent on water purchases.' Thus, the
'There are no reliable estimates of employment generation in the informal sector, although it appears to be
substantial.



30
project will markedly lower their costs, because water will be supplied by the utilities
(see Annex 1 on commercial practices in the water supply sector).
4.4   As primary health and food providers for their household, women will benefit
from an improved water supply because it will facilitate better hygiene, food preparation,
and general cleanliness, at home and in the surrounding environment. Apart from the cost
savings, women will also gain through time-savings associated with procuring water.
4.5   Poor drinking water quality is a particularly serious problem in Phnom Penh,
where many supply lines are old and allow treated water to be contaminated. Problems
are severe in Sihanoukville as well, where many residents dig shallow wells that are
contaminated by septage leached through the soil.
4.6   Another major non-quantifiable benefit will be the project's TA impact on
Camnbodian water utilities. PPWSA has already generated impressive capacity to
understand and grapple with the technical and management problems associated with
large water systems, but the project will offer its personnel additional exposure to a well-
run, commercial utility. Thus, the investment program will demonstrate that water
utilities can be transformed into commercial entities that respond to consumer needs,
preferences and willingness to pay. Depending on the experience gained in Phnom Penh
and Sihanoukville, the component will probably be replicated in other towns.
Quantifiable Benefits
4.7   The benefits described in the above paragraphs are substantial, although difficult
to quantify and therefore not included in this analysis. However, even excluding them,
the other economic benefits in both cities will be large. In Phnom Penh, revenue
producing water is estimated to increase from about 14.9 million cubic meters a year in
1997 to 39.3 million cubic meters in 2002, through this and related projects. Total legal
connections are expected to more than double, from about 39,000 to 90,000 by 2002, and
water supplied to existing connections will be more reliable, both in terms of supply and
quality. To improve access to the poor, it has included a pilot to finance domestic
connections.
4.8   In Sihanoukville, the total available water is expected to increase from 0.58
million cubic meters a year to 1.77 million cubic meters by 2002, while connections will
nearly triple, from 886 to over 2,300. As in Phnom Penh, the Sihanoukville component
will make water supply more reliable in terms of availability and quality. To ensure that
those not connected to the system have access, the project will construct water selling
points in low income neighborhoods.'
2The water selling points will be located through a process of community consultations, and managed
through lease or management contracts in 20 locations, and will serve about 2,800 persons.



31
4.9    The quantifiable benefits from the project arise from domestic consumption, as
well as industrial and commercial consumption. No attempt has been made to value
externalities or non-quantifiable benefits, such as public health improvements (though
these are very substantial) or increased land values for areas covered by piped water.
4.10   Quantification of benefits was handicapped by the lack of reliable data. Only one
source of data on willingness to pay was available--a study conducted for the ADB by
consultants--which does not cover industrial consumers. The benefit valuation took into
account the results of the survey and used information gathered from a recent ADB
publication (Asian Water Utilities Handbook, 1997). Data were also gathered informally
through discussions with PPWSA and the community on water vending practices by the
informal sector.
4.11   Benefits from the project through higher domestic consumption arise from
resource cost savings and the incremental consumer surplus. For the Phnom Penh
component, the resource cost savings is the difference between the cost of water to
PPWSA and that of privately vended water (including private wells). Using a figure of
$0.67 per cubic meter, the resource cost saving was calculated to be $0.49 per cubic
meter.3 The incremental consumer surplus is estimated at 10 percent of this benefit.
4.12 In Sihanoukville, domestic consumption was broken down into consumption from
the reticulation system, water vendors, and the 20 new water selling points to be financed
by the project. Water resource savings were applied to the additional water piped through
the reticulation network and from that sold at the water selling points. The cost of
privately vended water was estimated at US$0.824 per cubic meter, which provided a
resource cost saving of US$0.56.
4.13   While the general equilibrium effects of improved water supply on the industrial
and commercial sectors are substantially positive, they are difficult to quantify, given the
absence of even rudimentary data. However, these consumers would obviously not
purchase water unless the incremental revenue was at least equal to the price. From this
price, the cost to PPWSA/SWSA is then deducted. An additional amount of consumer
surplus is still not captured by the price, since anecdotal evidence points to industries
paying far more than even the enlarged PPWSA tariff--which indicates the surplus is
large. Evidence also suggests that industry and business start-ups have been retarded by
the lack of reliable piped water. Thus, the approach adopted was to avoid sophisticated
3The price of vended water is reported in the Asian Water Utilities Handbook (1997) to be $1.67 per cu.m.
in Phnom Penh. Table A 1.4 in Annex I provides consumption pattern data for Phnom Penh, and this
was used as a basis for calculating the "without project cost" of water ($0.67).
4Lack of data from Sihanoukville precluded an analysis similar to that for Phnom Penh. For the latter, it
was estimated that 62% of vended and water supplied from rivers and wells was collected by
consumers without charge. Because Sihanoukville has fewer fresh water sources close to the urban
area compared to Phnom Penh, the ratio was reduced to 50%. The price of vended water was assumed
to be $1.64 per cu. m., though anecdotal evidence suggests it is closer to $2.0 cu. m. An overall
average price for Sihanoukville for vended water was calculated on this basis.



32
analyses and instead use the commercial tariff per cubic meter as a proxy for overall
benefits; this method almost certainly undervalues the benefits.
4.14  The aggregate benefit was calculated by applying the unit benefit per cubic meter
to: (a) the volume of water consumption diverted from the higher cost supplier (vendor)
to the lower cost supplier( PPWSA/ SWSA) and (b) the volume of increase in overall
supply due to improved distribution (by reducing UFW).
B.   PROJECT COSTS
4.15  Project costs, described in the financial analysis section, were transferred to the
economic analysis, and conversion factors applied. To determine incremental capital
costs, the analysis used a standard conversion factor of 90 percent. For operations and
maintenance costs, a conversion factor of 75 percent was used for salaries and wages,
given the high level of unemployment in Cambodia. Electricity and chemicals were
shadow-priced at 90 percent, to reflect the labor content, maintenance was shadow-priced
at 80 percent of the financial price, given the relatively high labor needed to maintain
production and distribution systems, and connecting consumers to the delivery network
was shadow priced at 80 percent, also to reflect the high labor content.
C.   OTHER ASSUMPTIONS
4.16 Project analysis. Three analyses were made: one each for Phnom Penh,
Sihanoukville, and the overall project.
4.17 Project life. The project was evaluated over 25 years.
4.18  Replacement costs. Post-project replacement costs for the production and
distribution systems were included.
4.19 Capital costs. The opportunity cost of capital used was 10 percent.
4.20 Residual values. No residual values were added at the end of the project's
economic life.
4.21  Contingencies. Physical contingencies of 15 percent were applied to civil
works, mechanical and electrical works and installation, computing equipment and
materials. Price contingencies were excluded as were duties and taxes.
4.22  National costs. Costs for the national training center, a study on Sihanoukville's
future water needs, a study on sanitation and wastewater, and project coordination were
not included in either the Phnom Penh or Sihanoukville component. Instead, US$2.3
million were included in the overall project assessment for these items.
4.23  Other costs.  As noted elsewhere, the ADB launched a US$14.6 million water
transmission and distribution project in other geographic sections of Phnom Penh. Thus,



33
this capital input had to be included in the analysis (see Annex 18 for tables to support the
economic analysis).
D.   ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY
Phnom Penh
Base case:
Internal rate of return                                18.8 percent
Net present value at 10%                               $24.05 million
Sensitivity:
UFW remains at current level (EIRR)                    12.8 percent
UFW at 50 percent (EIRR)                               14.7 percent
Operating costs up by 30 percent (EIRR)                18.4 percent
Benefits down by 30 percent (EIRR)                     12.2 percent
Benefits down by 30 percent and operating costs up by 30 percent (EIRR) 11.7 percent
Sihanoukville
Base case:
Internal rate of return                                10.1 percent
Net present value at 10 percent                        $0.3 million
Sensitivity:
Water tariffs remain at current level (EIRR)           6.1 percent
Operating costs up by 30 percent (EIRR)                8.6 percent
Benefits down by 20 percent (EIRR)                     3.9 percent
Benefits down by 20 percent and operating costs up by 30 percent (EIRR) 2.1 percent
Overall project economic assessment
Base case:
Internal rate of return                                17.2 percent
Net present value at 10 percent                        $22.2 million
E.   ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
4.24 The proposed project was rated a "B" as there are no major environmental
problems. The principal environmental irnpact is the larger volume of sewage the
increased water supply will generate. In Phnom Penh, sewage outfalls discharge into the
Tonle Sap river and a nearby lake. The project includes a study on sanitation policy that
will guide investments in Phnom Penh and the provincial cities; the recommendations
would be included in an investment program prepared under the project for future
funding. In Sihanoukville, the proposed water system includes environmental mitigation
measures for the weir design, reservoir expansion, and alum sludge disposal.
4.25  In Phnom Penh, the only direct social impact of the project is the displacement
and resettlement of 26 households (144 people) living at the site of the Chrouy Chang



34
War treatment plant that belongs to PPWSA. These are retired and current employees of
PPWSA, as well as 18 households of illegal immigrants. The utility had allowed them to
live here because the plant was not operating and PPWSA did not need the land.
Regardless of tenure issues, PPWSA prepared a Land Acquisition, Compensation and
Rehabilitation Plan according to Bank policy (OD 4.30); eventually, many of its
provisions were not needed, because the families opted for cash compensation. To ensure
that all provisions were met, the Bank suggested and PPWSA agreed that prior to
appraisal, an independent external agency evaluate the manner and transparency of the
compensation, and the current conditions of the resettled residents. Based on this
assessment, which was done in February 1997, all seemed to be in order and no further
action is expected by PPWSA. In Sihanoukville, the component was designed so as to
avoid resettlement at the present time. If any is needed later, it would be in connection
with part of one well, and Sihanoukville authorities would acquire it directly from the
owner.
F.    PROJECT RISKS
Financial risks
4.26 The main financial risks would arise if PPWSA cannot achieve the agreed
operational targets.
a) Reducing UFW. As explained in the financial analysis, UFW bears heavily
on the project's viability, reducing it is a complex multi-disciplinary effort
(even in the best circumstances), and success cannot be taken for granted.
However, the target of 40 percent is not overly ambitious, as it is still above
the average for developing countries (37 percent) in the Bank's Water and
Wastewater Utilities Indicators sample study. The project design would
mitigate these risks by introducing the proposed technical assistance
immediately after credit effectiveness, which would include the twinning
arrangement.
b) Raising tariffs. Between the time the project was appraised and negotiated,
estimates of inflation and depreciation of the Riel against the dollar changed
significantly because of the region's macroeconomics crisis. Thus, the
project's financial sustainability will depend on how quickly water tariffs in
PPWSA and SWSA are adjusted to cover the increased operating costs. The
risk will be mitigated by an annual review of tariffs during IDA supervision
missions.
c) Achieving a mix of commercial and domestic consumption. The financial
analysis assumed that when the expansion is complete, the shares of overall
consumption will change: Domestic consumption will rise; commercial
consumption will decline, from the current 45 percent to 38 percent.
However, commercial consumption will rise in the aggregate, by 8 percent,



35
which is critical to the utility's financial viability. Thus, the long-term risk
does not appear large.
d) Increasing the number of revenue-earning connections. Connection costs
continue to be high relative to per capita income, and experience elsewhere
indicates that this often prevents poor and middle class consumers from
becoming connected. This risk will be mitigated by the pilot scheme of
assistance to domestic consumers to finance connection fees.
Political and other risks
4.27 Cambodia depends on donor support for a considerable part of its budget. Thus,
reduced donor support has severely reduced resources for counterpart funding. In the
case of the major component, to be implemented by PPWSA, it is expected the water
utility will generate enough funds internally to meet not only its counterpart fund
requirements, but those of the entire project. This would reduce the burden on the
national budget and limit the government's "contribution" to taxes and duties exemptions.
However, the risk is serious. Thus, during negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Ministry of Economy and Finance that in the event PPWSA experiences financial
difficulties and cannot meet its counterpart funding obligations, it will earmark the
required counterpart funds from the Government budget.
428  Political risks remain that could reduce the Government's ability to develop the
sector policies and introduce the required institutional reforms. These risks are mitigated
by three factors. First, the policy making process will be developed in a participative
manner, involving key stakeholders (consumers, utility employees, key political and
official representatives). The Government has already signaled its conmnitment by
forming an inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee to develop a comprehensive and
long-term national policy for water and sanitation services, and to streamline its functions
in the sector. Second, the project's approach to policy and institutional development is
based on learning by doing, which means lessons can be quickly incorporated,
adaptations can be made according to changed economic and political conditions, and the
design reworked, if necessary. Third, a series of seminars have been proposed, organized
by the Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI), to inform stakeholders about the
benefits of early action and the costs of inaction.
4.29 The lack of staff with experience in externally funded projects is a concern. As
this is the first project for the agencies, the risk is that, without enough technical
assistance, problems could arise: For example, at the early stages, the agencies' lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures could slow procurement and general project
implementation. For these reasons, the project will provide capacity building, technical
assistance and staff training, especially at the beginning
4.30 Finally, the only risk that could not be reduced through careful preparation was
that related to security and the unstable political situation. To mitigate this, activities have
been limited to the two major urban areas, which are less likely to be affected.



36
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A.   AGREEMENTS
5.1   Principal Agreements reached at negotiations were that RGC will:
(a) enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with PPWSA, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.32);
(b) provide counterpart funding for all project components, in event PPWSA is
unable to meet its counterpart funding commitments (para. 4.27);
(c) furnish to IDA a comprehensive national strategy for water supply and
sanitation by December 31, 1999, and adapt thereafter a formal Statement of
Sector Policy by December 31, 2000 (para. 1.23, 2.24 and 4.28);
(d) carry out satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in
accordance with agreed performance indicators, and furnish IDA semi-annual
progress reports (para. 2.47);
(e) fwunish to IDA at project mid-term review to be held no later than June 2000, a
report on the overall accomplishment of the project and progress achieved in
carrying out the key elements of the Statement of Sector Policy (para. 1.23).
5.2   Principal Agreements reached at negotiations were that PPWSA and SWSA will:
(a) retain consultants according to terms of reference and selection procedures
acceptable to IDA for all technical assistance activities financed by the credit, and
an action plan and timetable for the carrying out of studies and the
implementation of agreed recommendations thereon (para. 2.39);
(b) cause a revaluation of PPWSA and SWSA assets and the initial audit of
accounts as of December 31, 1997, by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA,
no later than December 31, 1998 (para. 2.50 and 3.10);
(c) provide annual audited financial statements to IDA no later than nine months
after the close of each of its fiscal years, prepared by extermal auditors acceptable



37
to IDA; and provide financial statements two months after the close of the fiscal
year (para. 2.48); and
5.3   Principal Agreement reached at negotiations was that PPWSA will:
maintain a debt service coverage ratio better than 1.3, an average collection period
not exceeding 120 days, up to December 31, 1998, and not exceeding 80 days
thereafter, and an operating ratio not exceeding 0.50 (para. 3.13).
5.4   Special Condition for credit effectiveness is that:
the RGC and PPWSA shall have signed a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory
to IDA (para 2.32).
5.5   Condition of disbursement against the SWSA project is that:
that RGC shall have raised the average tariff to a level acceptable to IDA, which
ensures the financial viability of the SWSA (para. 2.42).
B.   RECOMMENDATION
5.6   On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for
an IDA Credit of SDR 22.70 million (US$30.96 million equivalent) to fte
Kingdom of Cambodia for a period of forty years, including a grace period of ten
years on standard IDA terms.



38
ANNEX I
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
COMMERCIAL PRACTICES
IN THE CAMBODIAN WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Background
1.    Previous investments in the water supply sector have focused on rehabilitating
physical works, on training and on improving cost-recovery. This has built up a core team
of staff in PPWSA and in SWSA, although there are still major deficiencies in institutional
capacity. The focus on cost recovery needs to continue, but there is now a need to
commercialize sector institutions, and increase their accountability to service consumers.
2.    Past accomplishments have been fairly significant: utilities in both Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville have made substantial progress both in expanding service coverage and in
managing their services more efficiently. However, there is still considerable room for
improvement, indicated by the continued high rate of unaccounted for water (UFW) in
PPWSA.
Unaccounted for water
3.    While unaccounted for water (UFW) is currently running at about 57% in Phnom
Penh, it has registered consistent declines from 1992 onward: from 80% in 1992 to 73%
in 1993, 64.5% in 1994, 64.2% in 1995, and 61% in 1996. UFW figures at even the
existing levels indicate that PPWSA operations have substantial room for improvements.
4.    The significance of the scale of UFW can be demonstrated by the fact that of the
total capacity of about 110,000 cubic meters of the two Phnom Penh water treatment
plants daily, in 1996 only about 41,000 cubic meters was paid for, even though PPWSA
has incurred the expenditure to produce and distribute a total of about 105,000 cubic
meters. Because of the financial strains placed on PPWSA resulting from the UFW
problem, increases in water tariffs are not able to cover costs. For example, an average
tariffs of KR 800 per cubic meter with the current rate of UFW is equivalent to only KR
310 per cubic meter at zero UFW to retain the same income base.
5.    UFW and its associated costs take on fuirther dimensions when new investment
programs are implemented. For example, with the proposed PPWSA investment program
Approximately $45 million will be spent to increase production capacity to 175,000 cubic
meters per day, improve the transmission and distribution network. If the levels of UFW
were 60%, this means the total investment for the improvement of the network would be



39
about $640 per cubic meter distributed per day. If UFW were zero the capital cost per
cubic meter delivered per day would be lowered to $260.
6.    PPWSA recognizes the significance of the UFW problem and included a major
section on the problem in its five year development plan (1996 to 2000) dated April 1996.
PPWSA identified the following reasons for its high level of UFW:
*  The distribution network has a high rate of technical losses due to age and lack of
maintenance;
*  The customer file has not been kept up-to-date;
*  All connections were not metered, and many meters were defective;
*  Billing by flat rate used a rate which is below the actual quantity taken;
-  Consumers took advantage of the chaotic situation a few years back to invest in illegal
connections;
-  Supply from public wells managed by PPWSA was free;
-  Some connections (notably Government employees and organizations) were not billed,
and
3  Squatters in low income settlements refused to pay on the grounds that they were too
poor (although they continued t pay exorbitant prices for vended water)
7.    PPWSA has undertaken a two-pronged strategy to tackle the problem of UFW;
both of which will receive support from the project. One part of the strategy is to utilize
donor assistance to finance a comprehensive program of general network rehabilitation
(i.e. pipe replacement and pipe renovation) in all the districts of Phnom Penh. IDA,
together with ADB, Governments of Japan and France are financing a combined program
that covers the whole city. The other part of the strategy is to launch a water loss control
program aimed at understanding and controlling the high water losses at the retail
(consumer) level. The latter program was launched in 1996 with French bilateral
assistance, and has intensively investigated in a pilot zone - suitably isolated from the rest
of the distribution system - the reasons why UFW is so high. The investigations revealed
that losses were caused by a variety of factors, both technical and non-technical. Among
the technical factors were poor quality of pipes, fittings and jointing, heavy traffic above
areas where water pipes had been laid, and deterioration of the water mains. Among the
non-technical factors were unauthorized practices by consumers, such as illegal
connections to the distribution system, broken and missing water meters, presence of a
number of unmetered public underground tanks from which water was consumed without
payment, and non-payment of dues by public agencies.
On the non-technical side (i.e. financial and accounting) PPWSA program now includes:



40
*  Increasing the per capita consumption billing base for flat rate bills;
*  Completing the registration of all customers on to the computerized billing system and
deleting disused accounts;
*  Instituting an incentive scheme and procedures for PPWSA staff, collection personnel
and meter and pipe connection teams to eliminate illegal connections,
*  A major program to increase the number of metered connections (in 1993 there were
3,391 metered connections and at the end of November 1997 this had increased to
about 39,000 out of a total of 41,735 connections);, and
*  Phasing out of public underground tanks and public wells'.
Progress to date in PPWSA
8.    The program for general network rehabilitation has been recently completed for
the Dom Penh District of Phnom Penh, with assistance from the Government of France.
The results have been quite dramatic: the monthly volume of water billed in the Dom Penh
District appears to have increased significantly. In the December 1995 quarter the average
volume of water billed was about 300,000 cubic meters per month. For the two months
July and August 1996 the average was 450,000 cubic meters per month. Water usage in
July and August could be expected to be higher than the period October to December
because the latter is the rainy season and tail of the rainy season. Nevertheless, the data
does suggest that progress has been made even though there is no macro meter data to
confirm this assertion. Data from PPWSA also shows that the number of flat rate bills as a
portion of total billed water has declined over the period January/February 1995 to
July/August 1996. This decline, in addition to the increase in volume of billed metered
water, suggests that users who were billed on a flat rate basis were consuming more than
was allowed in the flat rate charge.
9.    The issue of UFW has been discussed at length with PPWSA, and senior
management is aware that UFW can undermine the viability of this project and the
autonomy recently vested by RGC. PPWSA expects to gain significant benefits by
expanding the pilot water loss control program through the IDA credit. The twinning
arrangement with an Australian water utility is also expected to help maintain the
momentum of the UFW program..
10.   As noted above, UFW is the key to financial and economic viability. Because of
the effort that is being put into the reduction of the problem, the financial analysis has
It should be noted that as of October 1996, there were 1,945 public wells served by PPWSA with each
well used by at least 20 families. It is estimated that approximately 10 cubic meters of water is
extracted each day from each well which equates to about 19,450 cubic meters per day or about 20%
of current plant output. Policing of wells is a difficult task, and PPWSA is attempting to develop
neighborhood water selling points, to be managed locally by communities through cost recovery.



41
assumed that UFW will fall from 57% in 1997 to 40% by 2002. In view of the magnitude
of the problem in Phnom Penh, and the Bank's experience with similar projects in other
countries and UFW in other developing countries, it is perhaps unrealistic to project a
much greater improvement in the rates.
Revenue collection efficiency
11.   PPWSA has undertaken a vigorous program to improve cost recovery. In 1992
and 1993, the authority's receipts were less than half of its operating expenses; however
by 1995, receipts exceeded expenses by 30%. To achieve this, the PPWSA acted
simultaneously on several fronts. First, in revamping its customer list, PPWSA found that
almost 60% of those on the 1993 database did not correspond to actual customers. It has
now established an accurate database by eliminating files of non-existent customers and
removing duplicate entries. This initiative initially led to a decline in the total number of
registered connections, but as illegal connections were cut and new customers registered,
the number began to increase.
12.   Second, PPWSA embarked on an aggressive metering campaign to ensure that
bills sent .out correspond more closely to the amount of water each customer uses. This
program has led to a dramatic increase in the proportion of metered connections from only
13% in 1993 to 55% in 1995 and 81% as of September 1996.
13.   Third, with a fully computerized customer database and billing system, excessive
delays in tariff collections have been reduced. Collection ratios have increased from 41%
in 1993, to 51% in 1994, 61% in 1995 and 93% in 1996. Collection ratios are high for all
classes of customer except for public institutions. Data from different consumer groups
shows that the collection ratio from domestic and commercial consumers is about 100%.
However, the major problem is amounts owing from public institutions. In the May 1 to
June 30 data, these institutions had paid only 15% of outstanding accounts. During this
period public institutions accounted for about 6% of total billed consumption.
14.   Even though PPWSA's collection ratio appears in order, an analysis of debtors
shows that the average collection period exceeds the periods indicated by the collection
ratio. The debtors' data shows that PPWSA's debtors owe PPWSA about four times
average monthly sales. This means that, on average, it takes about four months to collect
sales revenue. The worst customers are the public institutions which owe about 12 times
their average monthly consumption.
15.   PPWSA has made considerable progress with the establishment of its
computerized billing and accounting system. The billing system uses the Aquarius system
which is based on the Orac,i application and it produces all bills (about 30,000) for all
PPWSA metered and unmetered customers as well as a range of management reports.
The system was installed at PPWSA in late 1994 and it was developed in France. PPWSA
has had considerable help from both the French Government and the UNDP/World Bank
project in the accounting field. Electricite de Cambodge does not have a computerized
billing system and would appear to be several years behind PPWSA on this aspect of its



42
operation. In addition to Aquarius, PPWSA also runs the Accpac 2000 system for general
accounting purposes. The major problem is that the two systems cannot be integrated.
This issue, and other financial accounting issues, will be addressed as part of the Policy
Framework component of the project.
16.   During appraisal PPWSA acknowledged the problem associated with length of the
average coliection period. It was agreed that PPWSA would develop a plan and institute
procedures to recoup the outstanding accounts prior to project effectiveness.
Tariffs
Phnom Penh
17.   Prior to September 1993 the tariff for all consumers in Phnom Penh was KR166
per cubic meter of water. In September 1993 the rate for commercial users was increased
to KR 515 per cubic meter. Rates were increased again in November 1993 and again in
July 1994 when domestic rates were set at KR 250 per cubic meter and KR 700 for
commercial users and some wholesalers.
18.   In a report commissioned by the Asian Development Bank, the Consultants,
Sogreah Ingenierie, determined that the cost of producing water in 1996 was $0.44 per
cubic meter or KR 1144 at an exchange rate of $1=KR 2600. This was significantly
higher than the existing tariff of $0.10 for domestic users and $0.27 for commercial users
per cubic meter.
19.   The Draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the Municipality of Phnom Penh and the Asian Development Bank Fact
Finding Mission of May 1996 identified the critical nature of the water tariffs problem and
the need of cost recovery. The Draft Memorandum concluded that the financial
performance targets set for PPWSA are to recover operating and maintenance (O&M)
costs including depreciation by 2000 and to recover O&M plus debt service expenses by
2005. Sogreah's analysis suggests that to achieve these targets the average tariff would
need to be increased to KR 1,100 per cubic meter. New tariffs adopted have consequently
been progressive. These will encourage water conservation and allow cross subsidies
from high consumption users to low consumption users and from commercial and
industrial users to domestic users.
20.   In the Loan Agreement between the Government of Cambodia and the ADB, the
Borrower and PPWSA agreed to implement the new tariff structure and to reduce the
water connection fee by half The new tariff schedule, implemented in June 1997 is shown
below.



43
Table A1.1:
New Tariff structure for PPWSA
Residential           Industrial &
commerciala
m3/month  tariff KR/  m3/month  tariff KR/
rn                    nlm3
0-15       400        0-100      900
16-30     600         101-200    1200
31-100     900        201-500    1500
> 100      1200       501-       1800
10000
a For consumption greater than 10,000
M3/month, a 10% discount will be applied
21.   The new tariff schedule was utilized in the financial projections for PPWSA.
However, since June 1997, the changed macroeconomic scenario in Cambodia, and in the
rest of the East Asia region necessitates a periodic review of tariffs. PPWSA is likely to be
affected by two types of pressures on the costs side. First, any increases in power rates
will affect the costs of water production. As power accounts for about 60 per cent of
operations and maintenance costs, the impacts are likely to be substantial. Second, if
inflation rates begin to rise, the pressures on the wage bill, as well as materials and
equipment will begin increasing. Hence, a tariff adjustment mechanism needs to be
instituted, that would be a transparent process, rather than being, as it currently is, a
political process requiring cabinet approval. During negotiations RGC agreed that annual
reviews with IDA missions could be one way introducing a tariff adjustment mechanism.
Vended water in PPWSA
22.   The prices consumers pay for water supply outside the public water utilities is a
good indicator of the seriousness of the water supply crisis. ADB has recently completed
a survey of water utilities across Asia, and its data indicate that the price of vended water
in Phnom Penh is approximately ten times the tariffs charged by PPWSA.



44
23.    Consultants to the ADB conducted a socio-economic survey in Phnom Penh, while
preparing the ADB's Phnom Penh Water Supply and Drainage Project. One of the
objectives of the survey was to determine the extent to which the population is affected by
water supply and sanitation services and its willingness to participate in the upgrading of
these services. The survey identified three consumer profiles.
* Consumers already connected to the PPWSA network;
* Consumers supplied by neighbors, and
* Consumers who obtain their water from vendors, wells or rivers.
24.    Even though the survey estimates that 42% of households are connected to the
network the quality, rate of flow, pressure and supply of water are low resulting in an
inadequate service. As a consequence, even this portion of the population would be
significant beneficiaries of the proposed project. The table below summarizes key survey
data.
Table A1.2: Key socio-economic survey data
Description                     Category 1         Category 2         Category 3
(Connected to piped  (supplied by     (supplied by vendors
water)             neighbors)         & from rivers/wells)
Percentage of households    42                 16                  42 (16% vendors)
Average income (KR/month)    1,375,000         325,000             1,020,000
Av. consumption (M3/mth)    37                 14                  20
Old Tariffs
Av. cost per M3 (KR)        280                2652               2124
Av. cost per M3 (US$)       0.08               0.78               0.62
Weighted av. cost of Category   -              0.67                0.67
2 and Category 3 (US$)
Total expenditure (KR/mth)  10,360             37,128             42,480
Water cost as % of income   0.8%               11.4%              4.2%
New Tariffs and connect to
PPWSA network
Ave tariff/M3 (KR) (1)      575                400                450
Total expense (KR/mth) (2)  21,275             5,600               9,000
Water cost as % of income   1.5                1.7                0.9%
(1) Assumes each category will connect to the network. (2) Assumes consumption remains constant.



45
Source: ADB T.A. No. 2280.CAM Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project. Volume 2 Present Situation
and Development for the Future June 1996
25.   The World Health Organization (WHO) considers expenditure on water up to a
level of 5% of household income as affordable. With this yardstick, the Category 1 and 3
households in the analysis above are easily within the WHO standard but the category 2
households pay more than double what WHO considers affordable. Further, given the
assumptions used in the analysis, the data shows that both the category 2 and 3 consumers
will be better off even under the new tariff regime if they connect to the PPWSA network
and if they retain their current level of consumption. The major benefit is achieved by the
Category 2 consumers who's expenditure on water for the month would decline from
KR37,000 to KR5,600.
26.   Affordability of domestic water supplies of a number of cities in Asia was
estimated in the ADB Water Utilities Data Book published in 1993. The study showed
that the average expenditure on water as a portion of household incomes in 19 (of 23
cities surveyed) was 2% or less. The new charges proposed by PPWSA for Phnom Penh
domestic users (given estimated consumption levels) are well within the 2% for the
majority of the cities in the region as quoted in the ADB publication.
27.   As the analysis in paragraphs 23 and 24 shows, connecting to the water supply
system results in significant savings for the lower income level of the population. The main.
impediment to increasing the number of connections is the cost of connecting to the water
supply system. Current information indicates that the average cost of connecting is about
US$200 per connection. However, as part of ADB's negotiations, PPWSA agreed to
review and eventually lower the connection fees. Nevertheless, even if the fee were to be
lowered to US$150, this still exceeds one month's income for the Category 2 households
and about 40% of the average monthly income for the Category 3 households. These
costs are likely to preclude many poorer families from the connection program. The
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific of the United Nations has
found that the poor often face considerable difficulties in raising the capital required for
the initial costs of connecting to a piped water supply system. Studies in India, Pakistan,
and Bangladesh have shown that connection rates can be increased substantially if water
companies provide financing to poor customers for the cost of connecting to the piped
system.
28.   Because of the need to increase access of the poor to piped water and because of
the financial risks associated with the project it was agreed with PPWSA during final
project preparation that the project would include a pilot scheme of financing domestic
connections. It was also agreed that agreements to be reached at negotiations will include
that the RGC will cause PPWSA to revise its connection fees on the basis of actual cost.
Sihanoukville
Current tariffs and the water supply pattern in Sihanoukville are shown in the table below.



46
Table A1.3: Sihanoukville- 1996 consumption profile
Consumer group      Number of      Monthly          Average tariff
connections    consumption (M3)  (KRIM3)
Domestic            750            10,500            500
Brewery             1              28,500           900
Hotels              15             6,000             500
Factories           4              1,800             500
Port                1              600              500
Subtotal treated water 771         47,400           740
Reticulation loss                  12,685
(19%)
Backwash loss (10%)                6,676
Plant production                   66,761           741
Tankers (untreated)                3,000
Water from lake                    69,761
29.   The table shows that the average tariff is currently KR741 (US$0.27) per cubic
meter and that the brewery, which takes about 60% of the treated water sold by SWSA,
pays, on average, KR 900 ($0.33) per cubic meter. Project preparation documents
prepared for MIME show a consumption profile for SWSA after the completion of the
project. This profile is reproduced below.
Table A1.4: Sihanoukville- 1998 consumption profile
Consumer group      Number of      Monthly           Average tariff
connections    consumption (M3)  (KR/M3)
Domestic            2000           36,000            700
Brewery             1              45,000            1,200
Hotels              20             10,500            700
Factories           5              7,500             700
Port                1              15,000            700
Tanker (treated)                   15,000            600
Water points (5)                   15,000            500
Subtotal treated water  2033       144,000           825
Retic. losses (20%)                36,226
Backwash loss (0.5%)               906
Plant production                   181,132



47
Table A1.5: Sihanoukville- 1998 amended consumption profile and tariffs
Consumer group     Number of     Monthly       Average tariff
connections    consumption   (KRIM3)
(M13)
Domestic           2000          36,000        900
Brewery            1             35,000        1,800
Hotels             20            10,500        1,800
Factories          5             7,500         1,800
Port               1             15,000        1,800
Tanker (treated)                 7,000         500
Water points (20)                33,000        500
Subtotal treated water  2033     144,000       1,214
Retic. Losses (20%)              36,226
Backwash loss (0.5%)             906
Plant production                 181,132
30.   The tariffs in the table above show significant variation between the commercial
and domestic tariffs. It may be argued that if similar tariffs to those in Table AA.4 were
put in place there would be a significant cross subsidy from the brewery and industrial
sector to domestic consumers and consumers buying water at water selling points. This
argument is not believed to be valid. In the SWSA project preparation material, a total
101,000 cu. m./month is estimated to be available from the existing water supply source if
the level of the weir is raised, the sand spit sealed and the efficiency of the existing water
treatment plant is improved. This volume is approximately equal to the sum of the original
commercial consumption and the estimated new domestic consumption resulting from
improved facilities. The total estimated cost of raising the lake, sealing the sand spit and
improving the existing water treatment plant up to the level required to meet these needs
is about $0.6 million. Given these works will provide an estimated additional 65,000 cu.
m/month this equates to a capital cost of $9.20/month per cu. m of water produced. The
estimated marginal cost of improving capacity a further 31,000 cu. m/month to satisfy the
anticipated additional commercial needs is $1.3 million or $41.90/month per cu. m of
water produced. Because of this apparent significant difference in the cost of supply and
the fact that this project is to be funded by IDA, it may not be unreasonable to have a
higher commercial tariff of the magnitude discussed in this analysis.
Staffing
31.   PPWSA has improved human resources management significantly in recent years.
One major innovation has been to change the incentives for staff in order to encourage
honesty and efficiency. The new incentive system operates effectively even within the



48
rigidities of municipal rules, such as those that limit [certain] salaries to the equivalent of
US$10 per month. The most important part of the incentive system gives a bill collector a
bonus for each illegal connection he or she reports. At the same time, if someone from
another department of PPWSA reports an illegal connection, that person receives the
bonus, and the collector responsible for the part of the city in question must pay a penalty
to the authority. The bonus is 20% of the fine levied on the illegally connected customer.
Since the implementation of this system, the average number of new connections
registered per month has doubled to 860 between 1995 and 1996. The number of
connections cut off has increased steadily from 262 to 623 during the period January-
September 1996.
32.   Overall, management of staff has iriiproved over the past three years at PPWSA.
Contrary to experience in many low income countries, PPWSA has not been an employer
of last resort. The number of staff per thousand connections has dropped from 18 in 1992
to 15 in 1995. The accuracy of meter reading has also improved over time from 83
percent in 1995 to 87 percent by August 1996. In addition, operating as an autonomous
entity under the new Decree, PPWSA has wider discretion to reward good performance
and penalize poor performance.
33.   One key element of the project will be staff training and development. The project
budget includes approximately $0.25 million for a national water training center in Phnom
Penh. This facility will serve both Phnom Penh and all urban regional water supply
utilities. Courses will cover both managerial and technical topics. In addition to this
training, the project's budget also includes a significant allowance for both specialized
training in Cambodia and abroad. Training will also be a key element in the proposed
twinning arrangement.



49
ANNEX 2
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CAMBODIAN PUBLIC ENTERPRISE LEGISLATION
1.    Concerned, among other things, with the need for greater clarity regarding the
legislative framework in which publicly funded and managed services operate, in June
1996 the Government of Cambodia enacted a Law on the General Status of Public
Enterprises2. This Law provides rules for the operation, governance and supervision of all
public enterprises. Although granted independent legal personality and ostensible financial
autonomy, each public enterprise is placed under a Government Ministry or some other
public authority and made subject to various State controls. In all cases, these comprise:
(a)   control by the "tutelle" Ministry, exercised by its representative(s) on the
Board of Directors of the enterprise, with a view to ensuring conformity of
Board decisions with Government policy or directives of the "tutelle"
Ministry;
(b)   the "Controle des Inspections ministerielles et services assimiles" which
consist of periodic assessments of a technical nature; and
(c)   control by a "State Controller", namned by the Minister of Economy and
Finance from within the ranks of the Ministry's senior officials, so as to
ensure:
(i)   compliance by the enterprise with its legislative and regulatory
obligations;
(ii)  the appropriate application of any decision taken by the enterprise;
(iii)  all necessary follow-up regarding the operations of the enterprise
and their appropriate evolution; and
(iv)  the appropriateness of any transaction which might have a financial
impact on the enterprise.
2.    State controllers work under the directives of the MOEF to whom they report
regularly. They are required/entitled to attend enterprise Board meetings and shareholders'
meetings. They have discretionary power to object to decisions of the Board of Directors
if the decision appears to them to be illegal, likely to diminish the "rights and interests"
either of the enterprise or the State, or incompatible with the "purposes" of the enterprise.
2  No. 0696/03 of 17 June 1996



50
Such objections must be provided on a timely basis to the Board, the MOEF and the
tutelle Ministry, with the Ministries having the power to modify or confirm the decision.
The Law is however silent on cases where the two Ministries disagree.
PPWSA-specific Legislation
3.    It is within this context - applicable to all public enterprises - that RGC, by Decree
of 4th December 1996, established PPWSA as a public enterprise under the "tutelle" of
the Ministry of the Interior. The enterprise is declared to have separate legal personality
and "administrative and financial autonomy"3.
4.    PPWSA's purpose is to ensure the production and distribution of water for public
consumption within the city of Phnom Penh. Importantly, however, PPWSA is, for the
first time, obliged to organize, manage and operate its activities independently in
accordance with conmmercial business principles and practices4.  In this connection,
PPWSA is authorized to cut-off water supply to any customer (whether public or private)
in arrears in the payment of the relevant tariff beyond the period stated in the Authority's
contract with the customer.
5.    Although it is too early to judge the extent to which non-commercial and political
objectives may conflict with PPWSA's principal objective to operate on a cost efficient
basis (and by the year 2002 without any RGC subsidy), the Decree does reduce
bureaucratic controls on managers to the maximum extent possible in the context of the
Law on Public Enterprises.
6.    Also, although the Decree does not deal directly with the issue of PPWSA's tariff
policy and the basis on which its tariffs may be permitted or required to change, the
Decree does require PPWSA's Director General to prepare an annual business plan, which
will reflect the tariff structure, for approval by PPWSA's Board of Directors,
7.    Finally, in terms of its RGC subsidized support, PPWSA operates with a certain
financial autonomy and transparency in the sense that, rather than having its accounts
merged with those of the Phnom Penh municipal government as was the previous practice
since its establishment, PPWSA has now been allocated a separate line item in the national
budget.
The Authority was formerly a public agency under the Governor of Phnom Penh and, as such, part of
the city's municipal administration.
4   See Article 4 of the Authority's Decree.



51
ANNEX 3
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Letter of Sector Objectives









53                                  ANNEX 3
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
NATION RELIGION KING
ROYAL GOVERNMENT
Council for the Development of Cambodia
Ref: 5S2   l g;J  CDC/CRDB                  Phnom Penh, o4 April 1997
Mr. JavAd Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Director, East Asia Country Department I
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington D.C. 20433 USA
Fax No:202 477 6594
Dear Mr. Shirazi,
Proposed Water Supply Project - Letter of Sector Objectives
1.   As you are aware, the Royal Govemment of Cambodia is committed, and has been
working with IDA, to implement the proposed.water project. During the preparation, we have
met with various IDA missions, the latest being the mission of March-April 1997. We have
also benefted considerably from the Seminar on Water Sector Policy held by the Economic
Development Institute of the Bank at the time of this mission.The purpose of this letter is to
set out our objectives in the urban water and sanitation sector and indicate our commitment
towards their attainment.
2.   The Govemment's First Socio-economic Development Plan 1996-2000 enunciates
the overall priorities of the Govemment. As emphasised therein, the wider provision of
potable water and sanitation in both rural and urban areas, both as a means of tackling one
of the root causes of poverty and as a means of improving public health, is a high priordty
for the Govemment. In formulating policies for this sector we recognise that water and
sanitation need to be managed as economic goods. Our main objective is therefore to
increase the availability of all water and sanitation services, and to do so in a manner that is
guided by demand for services from users, and encourages economic efficiency and
sustainability. To achieve this objective, we recognise that services need to be managed at
the lowest appropriate level, by organisations that are accountable to users for good and
cost effective service.
3.   The Govemment's immediate objective for Phnom Penh is to make the Phnom
Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA) a financially self-sustaining commercial entity
which will supply adequate water meeting WHO standards. Phnom Penh accounts for an
estimated 40% of the nation's GDP and the provision of reliable and cost-effective water
supply will be important to the nation's prospects for rapid growth. The Govemment is
committed to making PPWSA financially and operationally autonomous to contribute to
effrient operation and conserve scarce Govemment resources. PPWSA has been already
been corporatised as a public enterprise under the Public Enterprise Law, as part of this
process.



54
4.    The objective for the provincial towns is to develop financially self-sustainable
commercial organisations and to transform them into autonomous bodies. As a first step,
the water authority in Sihanoukville has been granted a large measure of financial and
operational autonomy by Ministerial Decree No.524 dated 02 September 1996. The
Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority is empowered to collect its own revenues, incur
expenditures and manage ts operations as a commercial undertaking and is no longer
subject to the Treasury Law applicable to Government Departments.
5.    There are additional current constraints in transforming the water supply units in
other towns into autonomous commercial undertakings. These are the acute shortage of
skilled manpower to operate these undertakings, the current inter-relationships between the
electricity and water operations which are under the same administrative control in most
towns, and the absence of adequate accounting and financial systems to ensure
accountability for revenues and expenditures. Our objective for these towns is to address
these institutional constraints by a concerted programme of actions. These will include
training of staff in technical, accountingl and administrative skills, and preparing and
implementing a revised institutional structure. The new institutional structure should enable
the sector to be managed at the local level, guided by local demand for services. It is
expected that the Unit for Potable Water Supply in the Ministry of Mines, Industry and
Energy will continue to provide technical support and assistance to the provincial towns. We
are now receiving technical assistance from the ADB for the restructuring of the provincial
water supply institutions. The proposed IDA project will complement this and assist us
through its training and institutional strengthening component.
6.    The Government recognises the vital importance of improved sanitation in promoting
greater well-being and better public health. The need for sanitation services is acute and will
become more so with increased water supplies. Our immediate objective is to develop a
Sanitation and Waste Water Management Strategy that is, as far as possible,
implementable, guided by demand, and fiscally sound. The Government will utilise
components of the proposed IDA Project in attaining this objective.
7.    We recognise that the level of tariffs and the manner in which tariffs are set and
revised are crucial to the autonomous commercial operation of water utilities. We are
committed to setting tariffs at levels that recover costs and assist water undertakings to
become commercially viable and cost efficient. Our objective is to develop institutional
arrangements which will enable tariffs to be revised periodically on the basis of pre-
determined rational commercial criteria. The institutional strengthening component of the
proposed World Bank project will assist us in this.
8.    Considering the severe resource constraints the nation faces, it is desirable to
encourage the participation of the private sector in water supply and sanitation. The
Govemment is conscious of the need for a suitable policy framework to attract private
participation and will work towards the evolution of an appropriate framework.
9.    The Govemment recognises that the attainment of these objectives will require a
comprehensive, coherent and long-term national policy for this sector. The Govemment is
committed to the preparation and implementation of such a Statement of Policy in
consultation with all relevant stakeholders and seeks the assistance of IDA, through the
proposed project, in this important endeavour.
10.   The First Socio-economic Development Plan recognises that responsibility within the
Govemment for urban water and sanitation is dMded not only vertically but horizontally.



55
There is a need for a more streamlined and rational structure for policy-making and
regulation in the sector. The evolution of such a rational structure, in consultation with IDA,
will form part of the proposed Statement of Policy. In the interim, (as already stated in the
CDC's letter 2674/96 CDC/CRDB dated 6th December 1996) a Coordinating Committee has
been constituted to co-ordinate policy in the water and sanitation sector. The Coordinating
Committee consists of senior representatives of the Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy,
the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, the Council for the Development of Cambodia and the Phnom Penh
Municipality. The Committee , which is chaired by the representative of MIME, will oversee
the prepaiation of the Statement of Policy.
We request the World Bank to e         issing of this important and long-
awaited Project, which will go a Ion                Govemment in its efforts to
achieve the ambitious objectives set  oonomic Development Plan.
Yours sincerely,
h h    eatoChhon
Sr. Minister in Charge of Rehabilitation and Development
Minister of Economy and Finance
Vice Chairman, CDC
cc:   - Ministry of Economy and Finance
- Minsitry of Planning
- Ministry of Industry, Mine and Energy
- Ministry of Public Works and Transport
- Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
- CDC/CRDB



I



57
ANNEX 4
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TWINNING ARRANGEMENT
BETWEEN PPWSA AND AUSTRALIAN UTILITY
Background
1.    Twinning arrangements, as an instrument of technology transfer and capacity
building have a mixed record. In the water sector in Latin America, they have had a mixed
record. In the Philippines energy sector on the other hand recent interventions have been
quite a success. These are also successes in the Indonesian petroleum sector and the Fijian
telecommunication sector.
2.    The Banks Handbook of Technical Assistance defines twinning as "the
establishment of an institutional relationship between an organizational entity in a
developing country (the 'recipient') and a similar but more mature entity in another
country (the 'supplier'). It notes that twinning is mainly aimed at (and best suited to)
transfer of managerial, financial and technical skills and systems that involve the numerous
functional aspects of the recipient entity. It cites a number of advantages of twinning -
opportunities to integrate training with TA, greater flexibility to alter work programs to
needs, long-term cooperation, lower expense, encouraging developing country expertise in
consulting (where the supplier is from another developing country). It also mentions the
possible disadvantages - the supplier may lack consulting experience and developing
country experience and twinning could be a hidden form of tied aid. It recommends that
more than one TA supplier from the donor countries should tender for twinning contracts.
3.    In the design of the twinning arrangement these factors have been borne in mind.
The Phnom Penh Water & Sanitation Authority (PPWSA) needs an infusion of a number
of multi-functiorial inputs covering the whole spectrum of managerial, financial and
technical systems, broader than could be delivered by specific TA. Twinning does
therefore fit the context. Among the potential disadvantages, the first two - lack of
experience in consulting/lack of developing country experience are unlikely to apply to
major suppliers from Australia. The issue of 'tied' supply remains. However, in the
context of the urgency of Cambodia's need in preparing for the IDA project, the scarcity
of resources and the ready availability of Australian funds, the commencement of a
twinning arrangement with an Australian supplier seems the most effective practicable
solution.



58
Objective
4.    The objective of the twinning will be improve the institutional effectiveness of
PPWSA in respect of:
(a)   improved technical expertise in operations and maintenance;
(b)   reduction in unaccounted for water;
(c)   streamlined institutional arrangements within PPWSA for project
execution; and
(d)   operations & maintenance, so as to prepare PPWSA for successful
- implementation of the proposed IDA project.
Considerations in Design and Adaptive Learning
5.    The following factors have been borne in mind in designing the TOR:
(a)   Experience has shown the importance of institutional factors including
cultural settings and social norms in affecting program effectiveness.
(b)   One way transfers of knowledge from developed to developing country
have generally failed or if successfil, not been sustainable because of
institutional differences.
(c)   Adaptive learning, whereby state-of-the-art practices are observed,
understood and then adapted to local circumstances, offers a better chance
of success.
(d)   The proposed Project has specific components of TA for procurement and
accounting, and these need not be duplicated in the twinning.
Description of Work Program
Module 1: Australian experts visit to Cambodia
6.    (a)   The Australian entity (hereinafter referred to as 'the twin') shall depute a
team of 2 experts to Phnom Penh to assess the status and needs of
PPWSA. The assessment shall be made with PPWSA staff in a
coliaborative manner.
(b)   The team shall comprise:



59
(i)    a technical expert with extensive experience of water supply
systems especially transmission and distribution, and experience in
unaccounted for water reduction including at least 3 years in
developing countries; and
(ii)   a management expert with extensive senior level general
management experience in a water utility, preferably including
developing country experience, with a sound knowledge of general
management issues including personnel, relations with customers
and government regulators, billing and collection problems,
organization structure and delegation of powers etc.
7.    The technical expert shall first arrive in Phnom Penh for a two month stay,
followed a month later by the management expert for a period of one month.
8.    The PPWSA shall identify specific counterparts to work with the twin, for each of
the following 6 functional areas:
i.    Transmission system maintenance and leak detection, operations and
maintenance of treatment plants
ii.    Distribution system maintenance and leak detection.
iii.    Accounting
iv.    Metering, Billing and Collection Management.
v.    Personnel Management and Training.
vi.    General management and relationship with Government/Regulator and
consumers.
9.    In carrying out the assessment, the following shall among other things, be
considered:
reasons for illegal connections and non-detection.
existing system of bulk water metering.
existing methods of meter installation, configuration, replacement
workshop practices including repair, testing, spare parts, meter
fitting, meter reading.
use of water for operational purposes.



60
review of distribution system, assessing pipe materials used,
construction and pipe installation methods, repairs and maintenance
methods, soil etc. conditions, traffic loadings, distribution system
pressure and variability, system mapping.
plans for leak detection, monitoring and rectification including district
metering, regular sounding, pressure management, valve inspections,
data handling and analysis, equipment and skills availability and needs.
10.   The experts shall prior to departure from Cambodia prepare a report setting out a)
the findings of the assessment and b) making specific recommendations to remedy the
various problems identified. While the report may cover the whole gamut of issues, it
shall (in addition to general findings) have specific sections on each of the six functional
areas listed in paragraph 4 above. The experts shall discuss, as far as may be practicable,
their recommendations with the identified PPWSA counterparts for each functional area.
A copy of the Report shall be furnished to the IDA Project Coordinator and to MIME (for
information).
Module 2: Overseas study tour and hands-on learning
11.   This module will comprise two parts. The first will be a long duration study tour to
the Australian utility ( 45 days) which will expose the Cambodian team to efficient utility
practices and involve hands-on learning by the Cambodians in the context of an actual
running utility. The second will be a short duration study tour (1-2 weeks) of one other
developed country (to be determined in consultation with IDA). This tour (estimated to
cost about $25,000 but in any case not to exceed $30,000) will involve visits to, and
interaction with, a public sector utility and an independent regulator, with emphasis on
regulatory, tariff-setting and policy aspects. The sequence of the two tours is flexible. The
composition of the Cambodian team for the short duration study tour (to be finalized in
consultation with IDA) will reflect the emphasis on regulatory issues and may include
representatives of concerned Ministries.
12.   As soon as the experts return to Australia at the end of Module 1, the twin shall
make preparatory arrangements for the visit to Australia of the Cambodian counterparts.
13.   Approximately a month after the departure of the experts, the five Cambodian
counterparts (other than the counterpart dealing with general management) will proceed
to Australia for a 45 day adaptive learning visit. One person among the five (whom
PPWSA shall so designate) shall be the team leader and will coordinate the visit. The team
shall also be accompanied by a seventh member deputed by MIME. All members of the
team shall be Cambodian nationals. The functional counterpart dealing with general
management and regulatory issues ( who is expected to be the Executive Director of
PPWSA) will join the team for the last 15 days of its visit.



61
14.   During their stay in Australia, the twin shall demonstrate and explain to the
Cambodian team the prevailing practices of the twin in all functional areas with special
emphasis on aspects where PPWSA has major problems. The emphasis shall be on
hands-on training and field visits. The 2 Experts who went to Cambodia shall be closely
associated with the team as far as practicable.
15.   Apart from unaccounted for water, 0 & M and technical and managerial areas
identified by the experts, the team -- particularly the functional member on Management'
issues from PPWSA and the MIME member -- shall study the:
i.    Scheme of delegation of powers - the types of matters that are referred
to the Board of the twin, the extent to which operational staff can take
decisions, financial powers at various levels, personnel hiring/firing
powers.
ii.    Manner in which the twin is regulated; when and how the regulator/
Government.        exercises control
iii.    Twin's procedures for redressing customer complaints,
remedies (including legal) available to consumers against
the utility.
iv.    Twin's system of management information and control;
how staff who are given more authority, are made
accountable.
v.    Twin's financial rules and procedures, systems for fraud
prevention.
vi.    Twin's tariff structure and the rationale therefor.
The above list is inclusive and not a full listing of areas to be covered.
16.   Pnor to departure from Australia, each member of the PPWSA team shall prepare
a report on his functional area in which he shall cover:
(a)   what he has seen and learnt during the visit;
(b)   whether, in the light of his experience, he wishes to accept,
modify or reject the recommendations made earlier by the
Australian experts; and
(c)   his own further specific recommendations in his functional area.



62
17.   These reports shall be given to the twin before departure. The twin will comment
on the report within one month of the Cambodian team's departure
18.   The team member from MIME shall prepare a report on his experiences and
recommendations applicable to his organization.
19.   On return to Cambodia, the reports (along with the comments of the twin) shall be
compiled and placed before the Board of PPWSA. Copies of the report (& comments)
shall be sent to the IDA / PC I MIME/ Coordinating Committee.
Module 3 : Australian experts' second visit to Cambodia
20.   At such time as PPWSA and the twin may deem most appropriate, but not more
than 5 months after the return of the Cambodian team, the Australian experts shall return
to Cambodia for a 45 day stay. This visit shall be used for assessment and problem-
solving on the following:
(i)   how much of the recommended action has been implemented;
(ii)   problems encountered during implementation;
(iii)  if any recommendation has not been implemented, reasons
therefor; and
(iv)  further suggestions and plans of action.
21.   During the second visit the technical expert shall also, in consultation with the
Team Leader in PPWSA, prepare a suggested list of equipment or other items to be
procured for reduction of technical losses under the relevant component of the project.
22.   At the conclusion of the second visit, the twin shall prepare a completion report
setting out its findings and recommendations, based on paragraphs 13 and 14 above. The
report shall be submitted to PPWSA with copies to the IDA Project Coordinator, MIME
and IDA.
General
23.   Throughout the duration of the arrangement, the twin shall ensure that technical
assistance, advice and inputs given under the arrangement are fully consistent with the
technical assistance received by PPWSA under the proposed IDA project and for this
purpose shall maintain a close liaison with the IDA Project Coordinator and all IDA
Project technical assistance personnel. The aim should be to achieve a consistency of
strategy, avoid duplication or contradiction and maximize synergy.
Estimated Costs:



63
24.   The expected costs are as follows:
t                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~U.S.-$
Module 1                 65,000
Module 2                 95,000
Module 3                 60,000
220,000
Add: Contingencies @ 10%   22,000
Total                   242,000
Continuation of twinning arrangement
25.   The results of the twinning arrangement will be evaluated. If the arrangement is
found to have been a success, funds available under the Reduction of Unaccounted-for
Water sub-component of the proposed IDA-financed Cambodia Urban Water Supply
project can be used to finance a new, longer term, twinning arrangement, the twin being
selected in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines.



64
ANNEX 5
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Table A 5.1: Cost Summary - Phnom Penh Water Supply Component:
Base cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Table A 5.2: Cost Summary - Phnom Penh Water Supply Component:
Total cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Table A 5.3: Cost Summary - Sihanoukville Water Supply Component:
Base cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Table A 5.4: Cost Summary - Sihanoukville Water Supply Component:
Total cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Table A 5.5: Cost Summary - Policy Framework Component:
Base cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Table A 5.6: Cost Summary - Policy Framework Component:
Total cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)



Table A 5.1:        Cost Summary - Phnom  Penh Water Supply Component: Base cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Breakdown of Totals Ind. Cont. (Fiels 0OD)
Base Cost (Piels 000)                                      Local (BEcc.    Duties &
1998        1999        20OD        2001        2002        Total      For. Exch.   Taxes)        Taxes        Total
A. Civilworks
1.Turnkey contract                                 1,804,543.2  26,352,390.2  27,426,402.6  3,899,200.2    -  59,482,536.2  64,983,828.5  11;544,040.6  11,572,154.9   88,100,024.0
2.Water aistribution Chamcar Morn                   637,500.0   1,674,738.0   1,598,238.0  4,207,500.0  4,258,500.0  12,376,476.0    -  17,172,731.9   2,193,715.6   19,366,447.5
3. Ctthers                                          810,390.0                                                    810,390.0           -    858,049.5    114,414.6     97Z464.1
B.Equipment
1. Pipes and fittings for Chamcar Morn districts               7,004,453.4          -           *          -   7,004,453.4   8,737,569.9          -   1,179,571.9    9,917,141.8
2. For training center                               96,475.0    269,3820           .           -                385,857.0    305,527.1    102,148.8    65,165.3     47Z841.1
3. Computing equipment                                     -    322,6722            -                      -    322,6722      357,326.2           -     78,611.8     435,938.0
4. Others                                             3,859.0    448,222.0     8,296.0     8,296.0    8,296.0    476,969.0    533,713.9     8,779.5     76,427.6     618,921.0
C. Consultants
1. Construction Supervision                         136,000.0   1,224,000.0   1,020,000.0   348,5D0.0      -   2,728,500.0   3,125,925.8         -    312,592.6    3,438,518.3
2. TA                                               311,100.0   1,396,380.0    924,375.0   798,490.0   555,220.0   3,985,565.0   3,978,730.2    747,664.9    528,964.6    5,255,379.6
D. Revolving funds                                           *    964,750.0           -           -          -    984,750.0    477,147.5    477,147.5    128,829.8    1,083,124.8
E Training                                             19,295.0    527,085.0    381,990.0   141,696.0    27,200.0   1,097,265.0   1,425,776.8      -    19Z479.9    1,618,256.6
F. Incremental Operation Costs                        258,995.0    90,967.0     79,390.0    75,531.0    71,672.0    576,555.0          -    655,512.8     58,964.1     714,476.9
0. Land Acquisition                                   771,800.0          -            -           -          -    771,800.0            -    817,190.0    108,966.3     926,156.3
Total                                                4,849,957.2  40,275,039.8  31,438,691.6  9,479,212.2  4,920,888.0  90,963,788.9  83,925,545.8  32,383,265.4  16,610,878.8  132,919,690.0  C
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont. (US5 'O0)
Local
Base Cost (US '00O)                                          (BEd.      Duties &
1996        1999        2O00        2001        2002        Total      For. Exch.   Taxes)        Taxes        Total
A. Chil works
1.Turnkeycontract                                      530.7      7,750.7      8,066.6     1,146.8         -      17,494.9     17,488.1     3,124.7      3,114.8      23,727.7
2 Wate rastributlon Cham car Morn                      187.5        4926         470.1     1,237.5    1,252.5      3,640.1           -       4,494.6       591.5       5,086.2
3. Others                                              238.4            -           -           -          -         238.4           -        244.9         32.9        277.8
B. Equipment
1. Pipes and fittings for Cham car Morn districts          -       2,060.1          -           -          -       2,060.1      2,386,0           -        3221        2,708.2
2.Fortrainingcenter                                     28.4         79.2           -           -          -         1076         83.4         29.2         18.0        130.6
3.Computingequipment                                       *         94.9           -           -          -          94.9        976             -         21.5         119.0
4. Others                                                1.1        131.8          2.4        2.4         2.4        140.3        1454          2.4         20.8         168.6
C. Consultants
1. Construction Supervision                             40.0        360.0        300.0      102.5          -         8025        641.9            -         84.2        926.,1
2. TA                                                    91.5       41Q7         271.9      234.9       163.3      1,1722       1,004.9       198.4        140.9       1.402 2
D. Revolving funds                                           -        283.8           -           -          -        283.8        130.3        130.3        35.2         295.8
E Training -                                               5.7        155.0        112.4       41.7        8.0        3227         382.8           -          51.7        434.5
F. Incemental Operaton Costs                              76.2         26.8        23.4        22.2       21.1        169.6            -        178.9 ,       16.6        195.5
G. Land Acquislton                                       227.0                                                         227.            -        233.2        31.4         264.6
total                                                   1,428.5     11,845.6     9,248.7     Z788.0     1,447.3     26,754.1     2Z620.6      8,634.6      4,481.6      35,736.6
Due to rounng the las digit in totals may appear difernt then sum of digitL



Table A 5.2:        Cost Summary - Phnom  Penh Water Supply Component: Total cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Breakdown of Totals Inc. Cont. (Rels '00)
Totals Induding Contingendes (Riels 00O)                               Local (EBcl.   Duties &
199B        1999         2C00        2001         2002        Total       For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes         Total
A. Civil works
1. Turnnkeycontract                                2414,8180  38,325,010.9  41,677,760.3   5,68Z434.9         -   88.100,0240  64,983,828.5  11,544,040.6  11,572,154.9   88,100,024.0
2. Water Ustrlbutlon Chamcar Morn                    868,271.5   2,256,096.9   2,258,4730   6,783,752.0  7,199,854.1   19,366,447.5      -  17,172,731.9   2,193,715i6   19,366,447.5
J, Others                                            97Z484.1                         -           -           -      972,464.1           -    858,049.5    114,414.6     972,464.1
e. Equipment
1. Plpes and fittngs for Chamcar Morn districts             -   9,917,141.8          -            -           -    9,917,141.8   8,737,589.9          -   1,179,571.9    9,917,141.8
2. For tralning center                               115,769.5    357,071.6           -           -           -      472,841.1    305,527.1    102,148.8    65,165.3     472,841.1
&.Computing equipment                                             435,938.0          -                               435,938.0    357,326.2           -     78,611.8     435,938.0
4. Others                                              4,637.6    578,664.7     11,298.6    11,863.5    12,456.7     618,921.0    533,713.9      8,779.5    76,427.6     618,921.0
C. Consultants
1. Construction Supervision                          156,332.0   1,511,603.3   1,328.767.8    441,815.3       -    3,438,518.3   3,125,925.8          -    312,592.6    3,438,5183
2. TA                                                357,609.5   1,728,819.9   1,232,759.3   1,118,606.5   817,584.5    5,255,379.6   3,978,730.2    747,664.9    528,984.6    5,255,379.6
D. Revolving funds                                            -   1.083,124.8          -            -           -    1,083,124.8    477,147.5    477,147.5    128,829.8    1,083,124.8
E Training                                              20,163.3    752,555.1    576,525.2    22Z658.0    46,355.1    1,618,256.6   1,425,776.8        -    192,479.9    1,618,256.6
F. Incremental Operation Costs                         309,528.0    107,099.7    99,234.5     99,356.1    99,258.6     714,476.9                655,512.8     58,964.1     714,476.9
0. Land AcquIsition                                    926,156.3           -                                    -      926,156.3           -    817,190.0    108,966.3     926,156.3
Total                                                6,145,749.6  57,053,126.7  47,184,818.5  14,360,486.4  8,175,508.9  132,919,690.0  83,925,545.8  3Z383,265.4  16,610,878.8  132,919,690.0
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont. (USSOD00)
Local
Totals Including Contingencies (USS '0)                                  (EBcl.     Outles &
1996        1999         2000        2001         2002        Total       For. Exch.   Taxes)        Taxes        Total
A. Clvil works
1.Turnkey contract                                      689.2      10,465.9    11,091.9      1,480.6          -       23,727.7     17,488.1     3,124.7      3,114.8      23,727.7
2. Water Distribution Cham car Morn                     248.0        617.5        6029       1,773.8     1,844.0       5,088.2           -       4,494.6       591.5       5,086.2
3. Others                                               277.8            -            -           -           -         277.8            -        244.9         32.9         277.8
S. Equlpment
1. Pipes and fittings for Cham car Morn districts           -       2,708.2          -            -           -        2,708.2     2,3860 o                    3221        2,708 2
2.Fortrainingcenter                                      33.1         97.5           -            -           -         130.6         83.4         29.2         18.0         1306
3. Computing equipment                                      -        119.0           -            -           *         1190          976                       215          119.0
4. Others                                                 1.3        158.0          3.0         3.1         3.2         168.6        145.4          2.4         20.8         188.6
C. Consulants
1.Constructlon Supervision                               44.6        412.8        3536         115.1          -         926.1        841.9            -         84.2        926.1
2. TA                                                   102.1        472.1        328.1        291.5      208.6        1,4022       1,064.9       196.4        140.9       1,402.2
D. Revoiving funds                                            -        295.8           -            -           -         295.8        130.3        1303         35.2         295.8
E Training                                                  5.8        205.5       153.4         58.0        11.8         434.5        382 8           -         51.7         434.5
F. Increm ental Operation Costs                            68.4         29.3        265          25.9        25.4         195.5           -         178.9        16.6         195.5
0. Land AcquIsition                                       264.6 8                      -            -                     264.6                     233.2        31.4         264.6
TotMl                                                    1,754.9    15.51.7,   12,559.4        3,747.9     2,092.9     35,738.8     2Z620.6       8,634.6      4,481.6      35,736.8
Due to rouding the last digit n totas nay appear differeat than sumn of digits.



Table A 5.3:    Cost Summary - Sihanoukville Water Supply Component: Base cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Breakdown of Totals hid. Cont (Eels 'OO)
one Cost (Eels '000)                                        Local (Ect.   Outies A
Is        *N          2000        20          2002        Total      For. Exch.    Teaxs)       Taes        Total
A. Cvi Works                                 .    451,503.0  6,781,608.6          -                      -   7,233,111.6   8,340,847.3    664,057.2  1,478.650.6  10,483,555.1
L Equipment                                               -   153,085.0    10,200.0          -                 163,285.0    202,651.2                 27,357.9    230,009.1
C. Consu
1. Construction supervision                      283,220.0   351,220.0   214,200.0                     -    848,640.0    941,742.4            -    94,174.2   1,035,916.6
2 TA
a Socleconomlc study                            18,700.0   222,700.0          -           -           -    241,400.0    265,881.7           -    26,588.2    292,469.9
b. Rnal design                                        -   476,000.0           -           -           -    476,000.0    534,405.2                 53,440.5    587,845.7
c. Future water needs study                           -   752,913.0           -                       -    752,913.0    851,4220            -    101,581.8    953,003.8
d. Support to MME                               95,200.0   406,300.0   217,600.0                      -    719,100.0    813,337.4           -    81,333.7    894,671.2
e. lnalW audit                                        -    19,295.0           -           -           -     19,295.0     21,948.8           -      2,963.1     24,911.9
a Training
1. Training @ PPWM                                      -    96,475.0    96,475.0    96,475.0    96,475.0    385,900.0    474,689.5           -    64,083.1    538,772.6
2. Others                                               -    19,295.0           -           -          -      19,295.0     21,948.8           -      2,963.1     24,911.9
E hIcremental Operation Costs                        8,160.0    60,095.0    40,800.0    40,800.0    40,800.0    190,655.0    21,948.8    206,658.5     2,963.1    231,570.3
F. Land AcquisIton                                  96,475.0          -           -          -           -      96,475.0           -      88,825.0    11,844.2    100,669.2
Totai                                              953,258.0  9,338,986.6   579,275.0   137,275.0   137,275.0  11,146,069.6  12,490,823.1    959,540.7  1,947,943.5  15,398,307.3
Breakdown of Totals Ind. Cont. (USS 'COO)
Local
Base Cost (US'OO)                                            (pucl.     Duties S
lse        1909        2000        2001        2002        Total      For. ixch.    Taxes)       Taxes        Total
A. Civi Works                                         132.8      1,994.6          -           -          -       2,127.4      2,282.7        182.2      404.6       2,869.5
S. iquipment                                              -        45.0         3.0          -           -         48.0         55.2            -         7.5         62.7
C. Consultants
1. Construction supervision                          83.3       103.3        63.0                      -         249 6        259 0                    25 9        2849
.ZTA
a Socl.conomlcstudy                                  5.5       65.5                 -                 -         71.0         72.8           -          7.3        80.1
b.RnaidesIgn                                          -       140.0           -           -           -        140.0        145.9           -         14.6        160.5
c, Future water needs study                           -       221.4           -                       -        221.4        232.5           -         27.7       260.2
d.Supportto MIME                                    28.0      119.5        64.0           -                    211.5        221.5           -         22.2        243.7
e. lnitl audit                                        -         5.7                                              5 -  5.7     6.0           -          0.8         6.8
DL Training
1. Training   PPWSA                                     -        28.4        28.4        28.4        28.4        113.5        1250            -         16.9        141.9
2 Oters                                                 -         5.7           -           -           -          5.7          6.0           -          0.8         6.8
E Incremental Operation Costs                           2.4        17.7        12.0        12.0       12.0         56.1          6.0         54.6         0.8         61.4
F. Land AcquisItIon                                    28.4           -           -          *           -          28.4           -         25.4         3.4         28.8
Total                                                 280.4      2,746.8      170.4        40.4       40.4       3,278.3      3,412.8       262.2       532.4       4,207.4



Table A 5.4:    Cost Summary - Sihanoukville Water Supply Component: Total cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Breakdown of Totals Jncl. Cont. (iels '000)
Totals Including Contingencies (Riels '000)                           Local (Exd.   Duties &
199B        1l00        200         2001        2002        Total      For. EKch..    Taxes)      Taxes        Total
A. Ciil Works                                      542,526.0   9,941.029.1         -           -           -  10,483,555.1   8,340,847.3    664,057.2  1,478,650.6  10,483,555.1
B. Equlpment                                              -    214,242.1    15,767.0           -           -    230,009.1    202,651.2            -    27,357.9    230,009.1
C. Consuklnts
1. Construction supervision                       324,388.9    432,486.5   279,041.2         -           -   1.035,916.6    941,742.4           -     94,174.2   1.035,916.6
2. TA
a. Socioeconomic study                           19,541.5    272,928.4          -           -                292,469.9    265,881.7           -     26,588.2    292,469.9
b. Rnal design                                         -    587,845.7           -           -          -    587,845.7    534,405.2            -     53,440.5    587,845.7
c. Future water needs study                            -    953,003.8           -           -           -    953,003.8    851,422.0            -    101,581.8    953,003.8
d. Supportto MIME                               109,432.4    501,768.3   283,470.5                     -    894,671.2    813,337.4            -     81,333.7    894,671.2
e. Inlal audIt                                         -      24,911.9          -           -          -      24,911.9     21,948.8           -      2,963.1     24,911.9
DA Training
1. Training Q PPWSA                                      -     124,559.4   131,392.0   137,961.6   144,859.7    538,772.6    474,689.5                64,083.1    538,772.6
Z Others                                                 .     24,011.9          -           -           -      24,911.9     21,948.8           -      2,963.1     24,911.9
E Incremental Operation Costs                        8,527.2     70,718.0    48,318.8    50,734.8    53,271.5    231,570.3     21,948.8    206,658.5     2,963.1    231,570.3
F. Land AcquIsItion                                 100,669.2          -           -           -           -    100,669.2            -      88,825.0    11,844.2    100,669.2
Total                                             1,105,W05.2  13,148,405.0   757,989.5   188,696.3   198,131.2  15,398,307.3  12,490,823.1    959,540.7  1,947,943.5  15,398,307.3  0
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont. (US$'000)
Local
Totals Induding Contingencies (tBS '000)                               (Excl.      Duties &
1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        Total      For. Bcch.    Taxes)       Taxes        Total
A. ChMl Works                                          154.8      2,714.7          -           -           -       2,869.5      2,282.7       182.2       404.6       2,869.5
B. Equlpment                                              -         58.5         4.2           -                     62.7         55.2            -         7.5         62.7
C. Consultants
1.Construction supervision                            92.6        118.1       74.3           -           -        284.9        259.0            -        25.9        284.9
2. TA
a. Sodo-economic study                               5.6         74.5          -           -           -         80.1         72.8            -         7.3          80.1
b. Rnal design                                         ,        160.5          -           -           -        160.5        145.9            -        14.6         160.5
c. Future water needs study                            -        260.2          -           -           -        260.2        232.5            -        27.7        260.2
d. Support to MIME                                  31.2        137.0        75A           -                    243.7        221.5            -        22.2        243.7
e. InKital audit                                                  6.8          -           -           -          6.8          6.0                      0.8          6.8
a Training
1.Tralning  PPWSA                                      *         34.0        35.0        35.9        37.0        141.9        125.0            -        16.9        141.9
ZOthers                                                -          6.8 .         -           -           -          6.8          6.0          -           0.8          6.8
E Incremental Operation Costs                           2.4         19.3        12.9        13.2        13.6         61.4          6.0         54.6         0.8         61.4
F. Land AcquIsitIon                                    28.8            -           -           -           -         28.8            -         25.4         3.4         28.8
Total                                                 315.4       3,590.6      201.7        492         50.5      4,207.4      3,412.8        262.2       532.4      4,207.4



Table A 5.5: Cost Summary - Policy Framework Component:
Base cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Breakdown of Totals Ind. Cont (Riels '000)
Base Cost (dels '000)                                    Local (Exd.   Duties &
1998       1999        2000        2001       2002       Total      For. Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes       TotJ
A. Equipment
(for Coordinating Committee's secretariat)     193,885.0    23,800.0    23,8D0.0    23,800.0   23,800.0   289,085.0   357,640.3          -    28,131.8   385,772.1
BE Consultants
1. Water sector policy                                -    272,000.0          -           *         -   272,000.0   305,374.4            -    30,537.4   335,911.8
2. Institutional spec.                                -   408,000.0   136,000.0           *          -   544,000.0   619,124.4           -    61,912.4   681,036.8
3. Waste Management Study                             -  1,090,635.0          -           -          -  1,090,635.0  1,220,543.3         -    132,041.0  1,352,584.3
4. Training                                           -     74,800.0    74,8D0.0          -          -    149,6Q0.0   156,875.0           -    15,687.5   172,5S2.5
S. Coordinating Committee's support            204,000.0   816,000.0   816,000.0   408,000.0         -  2,244,000.0  2,603,027.5         -    260,302.7  2,863,330.2
3. Incremental Operating Costs                    59,160.0    73,440.0    73,440.0    73,440.0   73,440.0   352,920.0   289,140.2    167,032.2         -   456,172A
(for coordinating committee's secretariat)
Total                                            457,045.0  2,758,675.0  1,124,040.0   505,240.0   97,240.0  4,942.240.0  5,551,725.0    167,032.2   528,612.9  6.247,370.1
Breakdown of Totals Ind. Cont (1U.6 '000)
.  Lcal
Base Cost (USS '000)                                       (Excd.    DCties &
1998       1999        2000        2D01       2002       Total      For. Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes       Total
A. BEuipment
(for Coordinating Committee's secretariat)          57.0        7.0         7.0         7.0        7.0        85.0        99.1            -         8.0       107.2
BL Consultants
1. Water sector poDcy                                 -        80.0           -           -          -        80.0        83.4           -          8.3        91.7
2. Institutional spec.                                -        120.0       40.0           -          -       160.0       168.0            -        16.8       184.7
3. Waste Management Study                             -        320.8          -           -          -       320.8       333.3           -         36.1       369.4
4. Training                                           -        22.0        22.0           -          -        44.0        42.3            -         4.2        46.5
6. Coordinating Cam mittee's support                60.0      240.0       240.0       120.0          -       660.0       700.4            -        70.0       770.4
3. Incremental Operating Costs                       17.4        21.6        21.6        21.6       21.6       103.8        77.5         44.2          -        121.7
(for coordinating committee's secretariat)
Total                                               134.4       811.4       330.6       148.6       28.6     1,453.6     1,503.9         44.2       143.5     1,691.6
Due to rounding the last digit in totals may appear differat than sum of digits.



Table A 5.6: Cost Summary - Policy Framework Component:
Total cost, contingencies and annual requirements (1998-2002)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont. (Riels '000)
Totals Including Contingencies (Nels ')                          Local (Bicl.  Dluties &
1998       1999        2000        2001        2002        Total     For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes       Total
1. quipment
1. for Coordinating Comm mttee's secretariat    252,859.0    30,728.3    32,413.9    34,034.6    35,736.3   385,772.1   357,640.3          -    28,131.8   385,772.1
2. Consultants
1. Water sector policy                                 -   335,911.8          -           -           -   335,911.8   305,374.4            -    30,537.4   335,911.8
2. Instftutional spec.                                 -   503,867.8   177,169.0          -                681,036.8   619,124.4           -    61,912.4   681,036.8
3. Waste Management Study                              .  1,352,584.3          -          -           -  1,352,584.3  1,220,543.3          -    132,041.0  1,352,584.3
4. Training                                            -    83,978.0    88,584.5           -          -    172,562.5   156,875.0           -      15,687.5   172,562.5
S. Coordinating Com mittee's support            234,498.0  1,007,735.5  1,063,014.2   558,082.5       -  2.863,330.2  2,603,027.5          -    260,302.7  2,863,330.2
3. incrementad Operating Costs                    69,816.5    89,322.0    94,221.7    98,932.8   103,879.4   456,172.4   289,140.2    167,032.2               456,172.4
(coordinating committee's secretariat)
Total                                            557,173.5  3,404,127.7  1,455,403.4   691,049.8   139,615.7  6,247,370.1  5,551,725.0    167,032.2   528,612.9  6,247,370.1
6reakdown of Totals IncL Cont. (U  '000)
Local                                0D
Totals Including Contingencies (US$ '000)                             (Excl.     Duties &
1998       1999        2000        2001        2002        Total     For. E-ch.    Taxes)      Taxes        Total
1. iquipment
1. for Coordinating Committee's secretariat         72.2         8.4         8.6         8.9        9.1        107.2       99.1            -         8.0        107.2
2. Consultants
1. Water sector policy                                -         91.7          -           -           -        91.7        83.4            -         8.3        91.7
2. institutional spec.                                 -       137.6        47.1          -           -        184.7       168.0                     16.8       184.7
3. Waste Management Study                              -       369.4          -           -           -       369.4        333.3                    36.1        369.4
4. Training                                            -        22.9        23.6          -           -         46.5       42.3                       4.2        46.5
5. Coordinating Committee's support                 66.9       275.2       282.9       145.4          -       770.4        700.4           -         70.0       770.4
3. Inremental Operating Costs                         19.9        24.4        25.1       25.8        26.5       121.7        77.5         44.2           -        121.7
(coordinating committee's secretariat)
Toatl                                                159.0       929.6       387.3       180.1       35.6      1,691.6     1,503.9        44.2       143.5      1,601.6
Due to rounding the last digit in toass may appear diffeent than sum of digis.



71
ANNEX 6
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Phnom Penh Water Supply Improvements
1. Works
1.1   This component of the project is designed to increase the quantity of treated water
available in the City of Phnom Penh. The City's water supply system comprises a
distribution network of about 307 km of pipes, 80% of which are over 40 years old, two
pumping stations, five reservoirs with a total capacity of 24,500 cu. m, and two treatment
plants--Phum Prek (with production capacity of 100,000 cu. ni/day) and Charncar Mom
(with production capacity of 10,000 cu.m./day), both of which have been rehabilitated
with Japanese and French assistance, respectively. The total supply of 110,000 cu. n/day
is being fully absorbed. A third treatment plant--the Chruoy Chang War--on the bank of
the Mekong River has been out of operation since 1983 on account of damage to raw
water mains and deterioration of the facilities.
Water Demand:
1.2   PPWSA has adopted the water demand forecast which has been prepared by
consultants for planning the implementation schedule of water treatment plants and for the
calibration of the distribution network. The demand is based on population projections for
Phnom Penh which show and increase from 1,075,000 in 1995 to 1,450,000 in 2005 and
2,240,000 in 2015. The average day demand is estimated at 193,390 m3/day (maximum
day demand 248,700) in 1996--83,390 m3/day in excess of the available supply. Demand
is projected to rise to 211,500 m3/day by the year 2000. Capacity will have to be raised
by an additional 101,500 m3/day to meet the projected demand. Recently PPWSA revised
this level upwards using a higher consumption figure.
1.3   To meet the increased demand PPWSA proposes to rehabilitate and extend the
Chruoy Chan War water treatment plant. At full operation, the plant is expected to
provide an additional 65,000 m3/day.
1.4   The scope of work under this sub-component of the project covers: (i) the
rehabilitation and extension of the Chruoy Chan War water treatment plant; and (ii) the
supply of pipes and ancillary equipment.



72
Water Treatment Plant
Design considerations:
1.5   The design considerations for the selection of the treatment process at Chruoy
Chang War focused on three altematives: (a) the rehabilitation/replacement of the existing
plant facilities; (b) the-rehabilitation/replacement of most of the existing structures of the
plant; and (c) the construction of a new treatment plant at a different location. The
feasibility study conducted an evaluation of these alternatives including impact evaluation,
technical comparison, estimation of investment and recurrent costs as well as an economic
comparison of alternatives. Alternative (b) offers the best balance between the simplicity in
operation, cost efficiency and possibilities for future extensions. Optimum utilization of the
existing facilities and structures were considered while maintaining the desired plant
efficiency. The proposed scheme is a well-proven, conventional treatment process for
surface water which would be easy to operate and maintain. It comprises basically the
following steps: coagulation/flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and disinfection and pH
correction (if necessary).
1.6   Preliminary engineering designs prepared by consultants, were reviewed by
PPWSA and the Bank. The Bank also employed the services of a leading consultancy firm
experienced in the design of water treatment plants for an independent review of the
design. The basic aspects of the preliminary designs considered soil conditions and
investigations, topographical and hydrological conditions, characteristics of the raw water,
and an analysis of existing structures. The Bank has reviewed the preliminary designs and
found them satisfactory. The work will be bid and executed on a turnkey basis including
detailed design, supply, construction, installation and testing.
1.7   This component will consist of
(a)   Construction of new sedimentation tanks, rapid gravity sand filters and
clear water reservoir as well as mechanical and electrical equipment to
produce 65,000 cu. m of potable water per day;
(b)   Rehabilitation of other existing structures including intake structure, river
bank protection, laboratory, pumping station, 2,000 cu. m clear well
reservoir, gatehouse and pipework;
(c)   All interconnecting pipework, drains and roads, fencing, lighting, etc.;
(d)   Construction of new accommodation block and flow meter house;
(e)   Rehabilitation of two high level reservoirs;
(f)    Laying of 2.5 km of 800 mm diameter transmission main, and



73
(g)   Crossing of the Tonle Sap River by attaching two pipes to the Chrouy
Chang War Bridge.
Supply of Pipes and Ancillary Equipment:
1.8   The scope of work for the Phnom Penh Water Supply component also covers the
supply of about 85 km of pipes and fittings. Pipe material for about 14 km will be ductile
iron and the rest will be high density polyethylene (HDPE). These will provide piped water
supply in the southern district of Chamcar Morn District which has been designated by
PPWSA for IDA assistance. The pipes will form the secondary and tertiary network in the
area and will serve many income groups, including low income communities which
currently do not have access to piped water. The Bank has reviewed the bidding
documents prepared by PPWSA for the procurement of pipes and ancillary equipment and
found them to be satisfactory. PPWSA will finance the installation of the pipes and related
works in the secondary and tertiary network, at an expected cost of $ 5.49 million.
Operation and Maintenance:
1.9   The turnkey contractor will prepare a detailed O&M manual for the site and works
for routine operation procedures and maintenance requirements to be followed on a daily,
weekly, monthly and yearly basis. These will include training requirements for skilled
operators and maintenance personnel, treated raw water sampling and testing records,
chemical storage and use, dosing levels, checks on electrical and mechanical equipment,
routine and specific maintenance of plant and health and safety regulations. PPWSA plans
to deploy 40 personnel for operation and maintenance of the plant which is considered
reasonable in relation to the 45 personnel currently employed in the existing Phum Prek
WTP. Personnel will be selected from among PPWSA staff and/or recruited as necessary.
They will undergo on-site training one month before commissioning of the plant and three
months during commissioning.



74
2. Pilot Proeram for Financial Assistance for new connections
Background:
2.1   Given the low levels of income, the cost of connecting to the water system is
beyond the means of many households. Yet, once connected, households realize large
savings since the recurring costs of alternative sources of water are far higher. A scheme
of financing which enables households to defer payment of the initial connection cost
would have the following benefits:-
a) it would give access to cheaper, cleaner drinking water to some of the
households who need it most;
b) it would assist the utility in its process of commercialization by expanding the
market for its water.
2.2   To be sustainable however, any such scheme would need to be financially viable to
the utility in terms of both, recovering the loan itself and in terms of covering the cost of
funds, and to be administratively practicable. The outline scheme described below attempts
to meet these criteria.
Details of Pilot program:
2.3   Any person wishing to take a domestic water connection from PPWSA will be
eligible to be financed under the program, if he agrees to the terms of the program.
2.4   The program will finance part of the cost of a new water connection subject to a
maximum per connection which will be determined by PPWSA. Initially it is expected that
the maximum financing will be $100 per connection but this may be reduced when
connection costs are reduced under the project.
2.5   Applications for financing will only be considered after the applicant has deposited
an application fee of such sum as PPWSA may determine. This sum is initially expected to
be in the region of $20. The application fee will be refunded if the application is rejected.
If the application is accepted, the application fee will be adjusted against the down
payment due from the applicant.
2.6   In order to keep the administration of the scheme simple, avoid accounting
problems and reduce administrative overheads, financing will only be offered in a standard
package or a maximum of two standard packages. The exact size of the package(s) will be
determined by PPWSA. A standard package would comprise:-
i.    a standard loan amount (say, $50)
ii.    a standard repayment period (say, 24 months)
iii.   a standard interest rate



75
iv.   a standard set of monthly or bi-monthly or quarterly installments payable
with the water bill, calculated on the basis of i. to iii above.
2.7   PPWSA may determine the details of the package(s) subject to the following
parameters:-
a) the rate of interest charged shall reflect the prevailing cost of funds for
consumer loans from the banking system and PPWSA's overheads in
administering the program, but shall in no case be less than 18% per annum;
b) financing shall always be partial and shall never exceed $100 per connection;
c) the repayment period shall not exceed 2 years from the date of connection.
2.8   On approval of an application for financing under the program, the applicant shall
be required, within such period as PPWSA may specify, to make a down payment which
shall cover the difference between the cost of the connection and the amount of financing
(after adjusting the application fee already paid under paragraph 3 above). It is to be noted
that since the package itself will be of a standard amount, the down payment will vary
from case to case depending on the cost of a particular connection.
2.9   All persons who receive financing under the program shall enter into a binding
agreement with PPWSA whereby they agree to pay the agreed installments along with
their water bills and whereby non-payment of any installment will entitle PPWSA to
disconnect water supply even if water bills have been paid. This agreement shall be in such
form as PPWSA may, on appropriate legal advice, determine to be necessary and adequate
and may contain such other terms as PPWSA may deem necessary to ensure operational
feasibility and promote loan recovery.
2.10 All amounts, including interest, received as installments from consumers shall be
credited to a separate Revolving Fund account and shall not be credited to general
revenues of PPWSA. Balances in the Revolving Fund shall be used for further financing
under the same terms.



76
ANNEX 7
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SIHANOUKVILLE WATER SUPPLY IPROVEMENTS
1. Works
1.1   This component of the project is designed to increase the quantity of treated water
available in the port city of Sihanoukville. The 1,700 cu. m per day of water produced by
the Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority (SWSA) currently meets the needs of only 11
percent of the city's population of 47,000. Yet, the opportunities for employment with
support and service industries associated with the port, tourist activities and new
businesses establishing in Sihanoukville, has necessitated further improvements and
upgrading of the water supply system to serve the residents and the increasing population.
Based on current population trends, the average daily demand for water is projected at
10,000 cu. m in the year 2000. This is far in excess of the proposed daily supply of 5,200
cu. m under the project. Capacity will have to be raised even further in the medium term
through the exploration of alternative sources of water.
1.2   To meet part of the demand for water it is proposed under the project to augment
supply and improve distribution and access. On the supply augmentation side the
proposals are the following:
(a)   The lake level will be raised by constructing a new weir crest against the
existing bridge abutments. This will increase the lake storage by around
100,000 cu. m/day and the dry season draft by 500 cu. m/day.
(b)   Geological investigations associated with the development of the final
design for the new weir structure have identified the existence of
considerable groundwater flow through the area of the lake and
surrounding country. The volume of this flow is greater than the
withdrawal presently made from the lake (2,100 cu. m/day). The retention
of the flow through the lake and the consequent losses through the sandspit
to the sea would optimize the benefit of raising the lake level. The civil
works contract for the raising of the weir will therefore include
investigations to confirm the estimates made of the depth of the sandspit
and the construction of an impermeable barrier at the lake edge to reduce
the losses. This low-cost intervention will increase the safe sustainable draft
from the lake by about 1,100 cu. m/day. (Lowering the foot-valve in the
suction intake to the raw water pumps can provide a further sustainable
capacity of up to 300 cu. m/day.)



77
(c)   Four new wells--with total capacity of 1,500 cu. m/day--will be
constructed and equipped.
1.3   To expand the availability of the increased supply to a larger section of the
population, 20 tanker filling and water selling points will be constructed as also
improvements to storage capacity through the construction of a high level reservoir.
Design:
1.4   The component would thus involve:
(a)   Increasing the storage volume of the raw water lake by
raising the outlet weir, and sealing off the sand spit;
(b)   Installation of four new groundwater wells in proximity to
the former wells which have been out of operation; installation of power
supplies, standby generators and control panels;
(c)   Improvements to treatment plant and raw water pumping station
including: (1) procurement and supply of pipes and fittings and
accessories, raw water pumps, generator, control panels and metering; (2)
procurement of laboratory and office equipment;(3) procurement of a
vehicle and 7 motorcycles; (4) tools and equipment; (5) backwash
recycling tank, and (6) sandbag for sludge removal;
(d)   Improvements to distribution system including
procurement and laying of pipes and fittings; establishment of tanker
filling and water selling points;
(e)   connection of wells to distribution network including
supply and laying of pipes,
(f)   additional 3,000 cu. m high level reservoir within distribution system; and
(g)   consulting services for: (i) one full time professional
support to the Unit of Potable Water Supply for overall planning and
management; (ii) a socio-economic survey to establish the customer base
and their effective demand for water services; (iii) engineering advice to
check design of groundwater deferrination plant and expansion of
reticulation system; (iv) the development of SWSA's accounting and
monitoring system to meet the requirements of the authority as a
financially autonomous entity; and (v) studies on long term water sources
for Sihanoukville.



78
1.5   Engineering design for (a) and (b) has been carried out by consultants. Bidding
documents are under preparation. Since the safe yield from the groundwater wells and the
chemical quality will only be determined after drilling and testing of wells, final design and
specifications for the submersible pumps, the deferrination plant, and distribution works
will be undertaken following the drilling of the wells.



79
ANNEX S
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants
1. Water Policy Consultant
Objective:
1.    The objective of this consultancy will be to prepare, in consultation with the RGC and all
stakeholder institutions, a draft water policy for Cambodia. The consultant would build on the
outcomes of the EDI Seminar held in March 1997.
Duration of Assignment:  4 months.
Qualifications:
2.    Masters level qualification in Economics, Public Policy, Public Health Engineering, Public
Administration or related field with minimum 15 years experience in the water / infrastructure
sector with at least 3 years developing country experience in dealing with water and sanitation
policy formulation, including tariff matters, at sectoral level.
Tasks:
Months 1-2
1.    To consult all the Ministries and official institutions involved in the water sector, as well
as non-governmental organizations, other stakeholders and any other groups representing
consumers, as well as IDA on the issues covered and conclusions reached in the EDI
Seminar in order to convert the broad conclusions thereof into specific action points,
2.    To assist Coordination Committee to prepare a first draft of the Water Policy covering:
(a) Tariff policy (to cover both Phnom Penh and provincial towns):
General principles: treatment of water as a scarce economic good, principle of cost
recovery, payment for water by administrative consumers, policy on cross-
subsidization, bearing in mind deleterious consequences of excessive cross-
subsidization on growth and welfare; and
Measures for protecting the poor: Mechanism for revision of tariffs on rational
commercial criteria: demand and willingness to pay, adjustment of nominal tariffs
with inflation, need for cost recovery based on local costs relevant to each utility,
tariffs to recover full long term costs (including depreciation and expansion needs)



80
of efficient operation without passing on to consumers costs of utility inefficiency,
incentives for productivity improvement, indicators for productivity measurement,
institutional arrangements for tariff revision providing for promptness,
transparency, user consultation with appropriate incentives for all agencies to act
in an economically rational manner.
(b) Water resource allocation policy - prioritization of water demand for drinking,
irrigation, commercial and other uses where allocation conflicts arise;
(c) Reorganization of policy-making at Government level minimizing number of agencies
involved in order to ensure coordinated and unified sector decision-making, and time
frame for reorganization.
(d) Autonomy of water utilities in Phnom Penh and provincial towns, principle of
accountability to Government for specified outputs rather than day-to-day decisions, and
to consumers for good service;
(e) Prioritization of public expenditure on water and sanitation in rural and urban areas,
b- between rural and urban areas
b between water and sanitation
taking into account demand, willingness to pay, economic viability, self-financing
potential of urban utilities, poverty, externalities like congestion and resultant health risk,
and private / public sector managerial capacities
(f) Broad benchmarks for performance of urban water utilities by the year 2000, to cover
efficiency aspects (operating ratios, unaccounted-for water, staff-to-connection ratio) and
service coverage/quality (percentage of population covered, quality standards).
(g) Government's approach to private participation in individual aspects of water
industry, areas in which private participation would be encouraged/permitted immediately
and those where it would be considered later.
(h) Time-bound Action Plan for implementation of key actions in (a) to (g) above
Months 3-4
3.    Hold detailed consultations on draft policy with all stakeholders, organize
appropriate workshops (including proposed EDI Seminar) to ensure informed discussion
by all concerned;
4.    Assist Coordinating Committee in preparing final draft of Statement of Policy and
formal submission to RGC.



81
2. INSTITUTIONAL CONSULTANT
Objective:
3.    The objective of this consultancy will be to assist the RGC in implementing the
institutional aspects of the proposed water policy, by providing detailed advice and expertise, and
to improve institutional effectiveness in the sector as a whole.
Duration of Assignment: 9 months.
Qualifications:
4.    Masters level qualification in Public Administration, Public Policy, Public Health or related
field with minimum of 15 years experience in Government/quasi-government organizations
including at least 3 years in public sector reform in developing countries. Experience in a water
utility, especially in a developing country, would be an added advantage. The candidate's
experience profile would be the crucial factor in determining suitability.
Task:
5.    General approach: The Consultant shall be guided by the need to ensure that incentives for
different organizations are carefully structured to ensure that all of them work towards agreed
economically rational objectives; the existence of appropriate organizational incentives for all
stakeholders will be crucial in minimizing conflict and in coordinating efforts. The Consultant shall
ensure that suggested organization structures are designed to take this into account and shall
design administrative processes that reflect the appropriate incentive structure rather than a
structure of "command and control". Within this overall framework the Consultant shall:-
(a)   Prepare detailed administrative guidelines for the allocation of work amongst the
different policy-making ministries/bodies, pursuant to the principles of
reorganization set out in the water policy, including procedures for resolving
inter-departmental differences in a time-bound manner
(b)   Review organization structure of reorganized Ministries/other policy-making
bodies and suggest improvements;
(c)   Review procedures for processing of all water sector decisions in the Ministries
and suggest incentive improvements in different functionaries and agencies to
act promptly and rationally, and building capacity for analysis of investments on
cost-benefit basis.
(d)   Identify specific training needs for Ministries, etc. for funding under the project;
(e)   Draw up detailed and specific guidelines for matters which:
(a) will,



82
(b) will not require ministerial approval under the autonomy granted/to
be granted to utilities, keeping in mind the need for adequate autonomy in utility
management;
(f)   In respect of matters which will require ministerial approval, prepare a clear,
simple and prompt procedure for approval, with time limits; "negative' approval -
i.e. proposals deemed to be approved if not objected to within a specified period -
should be considered whenever possible, especially in respect of procurement and
tariff matters:
(g)   Prepare guidelines for Government nominee directors and the State Controller on
the Board's of utilities on their roles and functions as non-executive directors,
keeping in mind the need for operational autonomy;
(h)   Streamline procedures for release of funds to utilities from the government budget;
(i)    Evolve a mechanism for fiduciary accountability of the utility to government as
owner, for results and impacts (rather than processes and procedures), through the
Business Plan and Budget using such devices as may be appropriate, e.g.
- targets for expansion of coverage
- targets for billing efficiency ,collection and coverage of the poor
- targets for return on capital employed
- targets for completion of capital works on schedule
- targets for productivity of labor and cost effectiveness.
(i)    Evolve a strong institutional mechanism for accountability to consumers and
responsiveness to consumer grievances.
(k)   Review internal procedures of utilities other than PPWSA, delegation of powers
to various levels, etc. and suggest improvements to enhance effectiveness. In
respect of procurement procedures, the consultant shall work in consultation with
the Project Coordinator, who shall be primarily responsible for procurement
aspects of procedures;
(1)    Assist the Project Coordinator/Team Leader and AccQunting Expert in PPWSA in
procedural reform to the extent requested by them.
Outputs:
6.    The Consultant shall submit a written report on each of items (a) to (k), of which the
report on items (a) to (b) shall be submitted within 3 months of commencement of assignment.
The Report will be submitted to the Council for the Development of Cambodia with copies to the
IDA Project Coordinator, and IDA.



83
ANNEX 9
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Sanitation and Waste Water Management Study
in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville
Background
1.    Cambodia has requested assistance from the World Bank to finance reconstruction of the
country's urban infrastructure. During the preparation of the Bank-financed Water Rehabilitation
Project in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, concerns have been raised that sanitation and waste
water management problems have not been mitigated. In order to mitigate against long term
environmental damage, a consultant team, consisting of individuals with global sectoral
knowledge will assist RGC's Coordinating Committee for the Water and Sanitation Sector
develop a sanitation policy framework, which will lead to a strategic and cost-effective program
of investments in sewerage and drainage infrastructure in Phnom Penh and large provincial towns.
2.    Cambodia, one of the poorest countries in the world, is currently rebuilding its
infrastructure after decades of internal conflict and genocide. As part of the reconstruction effort,
RGC has requested assistance from the World Bank to finance investments and develop an
appropriate water and sanitation policy framework.
3.    Urban sanitation problems in Cambodian cities affect all sections of the population. In
particular, the poor residents are severely affected as poor are they are often live in low-lying
areas, and use on contaminated water supply sources for washing, bathing, and often even for
drinking. The problem of inadequate sanitation infrastructure has been accentuated by the absence
of a coherent policy framework, and limited capacity in sectoral institutions to develop such a
framework to lay out pricing rules, investment criteria and financing options to tackle the
problems of urban sanitation and disposal of untreated wastewater. Cambodian institutions thus
stand to benefit from global best practices on how to invest in basic sanitation and wastewater
disposal infrastructure in a sustainable and cost-effective manner.
Objectives and Scope of Consultancy
4.    The purpose of the Consultancy is, to advise RGC, and major water utilities (PPWSA and
SWSA), on the basis of global best practices, on how best to address current waste water
management problems, so that services are provided on the basis of (i) what beneficiaries and
communities want and are willing to pay for, and (ii) the services are managed at the lowest
appropriate level.
5.    In order to accomplish the consultancy objectives, the consultant team will distill best
practices from the global experience, utilize information gathered from existing studies on the
subject in Cambodia, and recommend to RGC a strategic plan for resolving the problems of



84
sanitation and wastewater collection and disposal in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville. The lessons
learned from the exercise is expected to be applied in other Cambodian provincial towns as well.
6.    The consultancy will be funded through the Water Policy component, under the overall
supervision of the Coordinating Committee for the Water and Sanitation sector. Day to day
supervision will be exercised by MIME. The consultant team will endeavor to build consensus
and involve all the stakeholders - from the community level to the government level - in the
process of developing the strategy. Since sanitation and waste water management issues cut
across several sectors, the consultant's recommendations will be coursed a Committee - either
directly through the Coordination Committee, or any Steering Committee nominated by the
former, and comprising key stakeholders from the Government, PPWSA and SWSA,
municipalities and community representatives. The Steering Committee, with technical assistance
from the consultant, will also supervise the completion of a Strategic Sanitation Plan (partially
financed from this TA), that would propose a series of investments after undertaking a process of
user consultations. Mitigation activities proposed thereafter could be packaged as investment
programs for possible funding by donor agencies, including IDA.
Summary of activities and expected outputs
ACTIVITY                             DESCRIPTION                                                             OUTPUTS
Initial Review                       The Consultant in consultation with RGC staff, undertake an initial     Initial Strategy Report for
review of the sector performance, summarize key findings from earlier   Sanitation and Wastewater
studies, and facilitate the formation of a Nationil Steering Committee,  provisioning in Phnom Penh
under overall guidance of the Coordination Committee.                   and Sihanoukvilbo.
Steering Committee Formation and     The Steering Committee with technical assistance from Consulant,        Endorsement of Consultant
Management                           discusses Initial Report findings with key stakeholders, including      Report by Steering
beneficiaries conmmunity groups, NGOs, PPWSA and SWSA staff and         Committee.
RGC officiafi 
Health and Enviromnental             The Steering Committe, with technical assistance from consultants, will
Monitoring & Awareness Program       share draR Report with NGOs and comunity leaders who currently are      Prelinary consultations
(HEMA)                               working in water, sanitatio, education, community development, or       with stakeholder enable
related areas, and collect available information on above topics. Based on   finalization of Initial Strategy
the feedback received, an information collected, the National Sanitation  Report
and Wastewater Strategy Report will be finalized, laying out a policy
framework
Mitigation Activities                The Consultant will evaluate technical options, that could address septage    Report identifie feasible, and
Recommendations on technical         dispsal and waste water mitigation in a cost-effective manner in the cities    cost effective techncal
options for on-site treatment, off-site   of Phnom Penh and Sihanoukvile                                     options available in Phnom
treatment, collection and conveyance                                                                         Penh and Sihanoukville to
systems                                                                                                      mnitigate urban sanitation and
waste water problems
Preliminary feasibility study, and   Based on the results above, a straegic sanitation plan will be developed.  Strategic Sanitation Plan for
piloting of user consultations       T                        beneficiaries, commuities and c                Phnom Penh and
repesetaive th tchncalopion avilblevwthin the budet envelope    PnmPn  n
available to these groups. The budget envelope will be developed for the  Sihanoukville, with identified
city level/PP WSA or SWSA through the use of a Long-term Financial      proposals for investments
Planning model.
7         There are five main project components: i) Initial Review; ii) Steering Committee; iii)
Health and Environmental Monitoring Activities (HEMA); iv) Initial Mitigation Activities; and vi)
Preliminary feasibility studies.
Initial Review



85
8.    The initial review will be a desk review of available documentation. The Consultant is
expected to be fully versed with global best practices in the water and sanitation sector. As far as
the Cambodian literature and experiences, the consultant will be expected to thoroughly review
the information available. Several Government agencies, NGOs, and donors are currently working
in this sector, and their help and participation will be encouraged. Below is an indicative list of
the organizations with interests in this sector:
i. Comite' International de la Croix Rouge - ICRC ICRC Water and Sanitation
Programme in Cambodian Prisons
ii. Partnership for Development in Kampuchea Urban Community Development
Programme Redd Bama Project
iii. United Nations Children Fund - UNICEF Water and Environmental Sanitation World
Food Programme - WFP Infrastructure Development and & Employment Creation
iv. SKIP (Stiftung Kinderdorf Pestalozzi) Urban Community Development
9.    Other agencies with interest in the sanitation and wastewater sector:
Caritas Cambodia
OXFAM
Private Agencies Collaborating Together (PACT)
Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO)
United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
Asia Development Bank (ADB)
World Health Organization (WHO)
Public and Private Schools
Community Organizations
Public Works Department
Department of Health
Ministry of the Environment



86
Mitigation Activities
10.   During the preparation of the Project, several environmental issues were raised regarding
waste water management in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville. The consultant team is expected to
facilitate common understanding of the issues, and recommended possible technical solutions that
are consistent with the feedback from users in order to finalize a Sanitation and Wastewater
Management Strategy Report. The expectation is that the lessons derived from the pilot activities
would be applicable to all other urban areas in Cambodia.
Strategic Sanitation Plan for Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville
11.   After the Strategy Report is completed the consultant team will assist RGC supervise the
development of a Strategic Sanitation Plan for Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, based on local
conditions (described below). These Plans will consist of (i) verification, through the
development of a long-term financial planning model, the willingness and ability to pay by RGC,
municipal agencies and the respective water utilities for the proposed trunk investments, (ii) a
preliminary feasibility study, outlining the strategic trunk investments considered essential to
support a sanitation and wastewater infrastructure plan, and (iii) user decisions on the requisite
feeder infrastructure, based on local preferences and willingness to pay. Items (ii) and (iii) will
require separate financing, and are not covered by this TOR. However, the consultant team will
be expected to provide guidance and specialized inputs in these activities as well, which will lead
to the finalization of Strategic Sanitation Plans for Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville.
Sanitation and Waste Water Management problems in Phnom Penh
12.   Currently, the residents of Phnom Penh are relying on poorly constructed septic tanks and
pit latrines for human waste disposal. The drainage system in the city functions as open sewers,
and untreated effluents are discharged into the Tonle Sap River through four outfalls and to a
nearby lake through four or five main discharge points. One discharge to the lake is through
approximately six kilometer of open sewer. The sewage is high in surfactant. Though surfactants
are not usually harmful, they lower oxygen levels and there is a tendency for other pollutants,
including pathogens, to concentrate in the foam. The need is clearly to develop a cost effective
and strategic investment program for tackling the problem of inadequate sanitation and
wastewater infrastructure.
Sanitation and Waste Water Management problems in Sihanoukville
13.   Sihanoukville is a relatively small town compared to Phnom Penh. However, the town is
an unspoiled coastal community, with tremendous potentials for tourism. As in the case of
Phnom Penh, there is virtually no sanitation or waste water infrastructure. For example, a new
housing scheme was constructing a sewage outfall with direct discharge to a recreational beach
area. Additionally, a brewery in Sihanoukville, which is consuming a considerable part of the
water supply, has no waste water disposal mechanisms, aside from direct dumping into the ocean
because legal liabilities of polluters have not been adequately defined.



87
14.   The Strategic Sanitation Plan for the two cities will be developed through a participative
process, involving the key stakeholders in deciding between technical options, agreeing to the
financing plan, and finalizing the operations and maintenance program, after construction has been
completed.
SCHEDULE
ACTIVITY                      QUARTER
23  4  5  6  7  8
Initial Review                f       
Steering Committee Formed_                    _
Steering Committee Actions              |*11*il
HEMA                              
Mitigation ActivitiesII                 1  
Strategic Sanitation Plan   X*XE



88
Staffing Requirements and Budget
STAFF REQUIREMENT                                                     UNIT   COST
*Environmental Engineer (Team Leader)                                 6 mo   60,000
BS in Environmental Engineering MS in Environmental Engineering or
Environmental Science. Registered as a Professional Engineer in his or her
country of origin. Minimum of 10 years experience in sanitation, including
intermediate sewer technologies, design and construction of waste water systems,
and community participatory approaches. Must have at least 5 years experience
in developing countries with preference to the Asia Region.
*Sanitation Policy Advisor:                                           3 mo   $30,000
BS in Civil Engineering and MS in a related field with a focus towards utilities
and institutional management. At least 10 years experience working with
sanitation policy development, intimate knowledge of global best practices.
Experience with participatory approaches and stakeholder committees. At least
10 years working with utilities in the developing world setting, at least 5 of which
are in Asia.
* Community Participation Specialist:                                 4 mo   $40,000
MS in a Social Science field with at least 10 years experience in participatory
planning approaches in the water and sanitation sector. Must be capable of
communicating technical issues to stakeholders, and completing negotiations on
service levels and cost recovery arrangements.
*Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer (locally based):                6 mo   $15,000
Minimum of a MS in Water related field. This position is based in Cambodia e
and is responsible for ensuring the day to day operations of the program. Ability
to speak the local language and knowledge of the government structure. Should
have some office management experience.
Financial Specialist:                                                 3 mo   $30,000
Capable of developing a long-term financial planning model for financing trunk
investments
Local Consultants (i.e. NGOs) as needed                               LS      $11,000
Local Office Staff                                                    LS      $11,000
Administration Costs (Local Transportation, Housing, and Office Costs)  LS    $50,000
Travel and Per Diem (assuming 20 trips)                               LS      $56,800
Training                                                              LS      $17,000
Contingency                                                                   $46,400
Total         $367,200
*Core Team - Other staffing requirements may be recruited after the core team has done
the initial assessment. The Project Engineer located in MIIME for the Sihanoukville water
supply component would be required as part of his duties to assist the Task Team in
carrying out and coordinating the program.



89
ANNEX 10
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Outline Organization Charts
Figure A 10.1: Organization Outline - PPWSA
Board of Directors
Managing_Director
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................... . 0==
Assistant           Internal Auditors
Cabinet Director    _
Inspection Office       Project Office
iDeputy Director       Deputy Director        Deputy Director
- Technical -         Administration -         Commercial -
Production        Adiitatoefic              utmr  Raions
Distribut           Accounting Office          Collection
Workshop                                   Computer Center



90
Figure A 10.2: Organization Outline - MIME
Minister              I
Undersecretary of State   .                          Undersecretary of State                      Undersecretary of State
- Water-                   .                        -Energy -                                     -Mines -
----------------      ~~~~~~.............  ...................1
Director                                    Directors                                    Directors
.            - Industry-
..................... ..................... ............. "[.............................  . ................... . ...     .    .......... _......................  ....................  ................. ............................. .........................................
Provincial Office of
Industry
UntDeputy Director
Unit of Potable Water Suppy
............................. .... . ...    . . .. .  .........................._I._
Provincial
I Water Supply Utilities
Figure A 10.3: Organization Outline - Unit of Potable Water, MIME
Minister
Indst    1,Mine and Energy
Undersecretary of State
-Water -
Deputy Director
Operation of                        Planning of                   Implementation of                  Human Resources
Provincial Systems                 Provincial Systems                         Project,                         & Training
& Project Prep.                   Supervision and
Centr. Procurement
Provincial
Water Supply Uitiltes



91
ANNEX 11
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Summary of Project Implementation Plans
1. Organization resiDonsible for the project imnlementation
Figure A11.1 Implementation Arrangement
Policy
Framnework   Coordinafing ;,
Component   Committee*          ;    Consultants:
- Water Policy
Secretariatt   -    .  - Institution
- Study
MIME            -    - Coordination
Phnom Penh Component  Sihanoukville Component  I Supervision
0On-lending
|Twinnng * PPWSA    Consultants:          SWSA            -   Consultants:
- Fin. Mgmt.             _               - Proj. Eng.
- Technical                              - Detail Design
- Training                               - Fin. Mgmt.
- Procurement
- Study
Supervision                              Supervision
Consultant          _                    Consultant    -
C     rator                              C    rar
* Coordinating Committee consists of senior representatives of the Ministry of Industry, Mines and
Energy, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, the Ministry
of the Enviromnent, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Council for the Development of
Cambodia, the Pbnom Penh Municipality, and PPWSA. This Committee is chaired by the senior
representative of MIvIE.



92
Table Al 1. 1-3 shows implementation responsibilities of key entities (by each project component)
after the IDA loan becomes effective.
Table A11.1 Responsibilities for Implementation: Policy Framework Component
Entities                                 Responsibilities
Coordinating Comnmittee (with   Overall Project Implementation, including:
secretariat assistance by   - Procurement of consulting services
MIME)                       - Monitoring performance of consultants
- Analysis and evaluation of project experiences
- Report to IDA on progress, disbursement, and other
accomplishment
Consultants                 Conduct project-specific studies and technical assistance
Assist the Committee and its secretariat in the project Monitoring and
Evaluation and semi-annual feedback on project experiences and
progresses
Table A11.2 Responsibilities for Implementation: Phnom Penh Component
Entities                                 Responsibilities
PPWSA                       Project implementation: design, procurement, and construction
Post-implementation: Operations and maintenance
Monitoring financial terms/physical progress of project
implementation
Analysis and evaluation of project experiences
_Report to IDA on progress, disbursement, and other accomplishment
Consultants/contractors     Conducting of project-specific studies and technical assistance
Providing the project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) team semi-
.______ _    annual feedback on project experiences and progresses
Table Al 1.3 Responsibilities for Implementation: Sihanoukville Component
Entities                                 Responsibilities
MIME                        Supervision
SWSA                        Project implementation: design, procurement, and construction
Post-implementation: Operations and maintenance
Monitoring financial terms/physical progress of project
implementation
Analysis and evaluation of project experiences
Report to IDA on progress, disbursement, and other accomplishment
Consultants/contractors     Conducting of project-specific studies and technical assistance
Providing the project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) tearn semi-
annual feedback on project experiences and progresses



93
2. Overall Implementation Schedule
Figure A11.2 Overall Time Schedule
1997      1998          1999         2000         2001         2002
Activities                     lIII IV   I    II  I VI  II IIIIIV   IIII I III  VII nIVI IIIV   I II II I
1. Bank Appraisal & Loan Agreement
2. Phnom Penh Component
a. Chruoy Chang War WTP
1) Procurement (ICB)
2) Construction                                                  m  _         _   _        E_
3) Supervision                                                  E       E    IEE
b. Chamcar Water Distribution Network
1) Pipes and fittings procurement ([CB)
2) Pipe delivery
3) LayingIE                                                                   E     H     E
c. TA
1) Consultants engagement
2) TA                                                            EE              EEEEIE E
3) TrainingE                                                            EE E            E    E     M     l E l          E
3. Sihanoukville component
a. Rehabilitation (current system)
b. Drilling of Wells
c. Supervision
d. Socio-economic survey
e. Detail design Deferrin.
f. Detail design Reticulation
g. Supply and Installation of Well Fitout and                                            m _
connection to the Network
h. TA and Training                                                iEEIEEIEEEEEEEIEEI
4. Policy Framework Component
a. Policy development
b. Institutional development/strengthening
c. Sanitation and Waste Water Management Study       _  _



94
3. Procurement Arrangements by Component
Table A 11.4: Procurement Arrangements - Phnom Penh Component
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method           NIF2           Total
ICB          Other1
1. Turnkey Contract for WTP             23.73                                       23.73
(20.61)                                    (20.61)
2. Other Civil Works                                                  5.364          5.36
3. Equipment                             2.71           0.38          0.045          3.13
(2.39)        (0.33)           -           (2.72)
4. Consultants
A. Construction Supervision               -            0.93                         0.93
-          (0.84)            -           (0.84)
B. TA                                     -            1.18          0.226          1.40
-           (1.06)           -           (1.06)
5. Revolving funds for the pilot           -            0.30            -            0.30
domestic-connection program                -           (0.26)           -           (0.26)
6. Training                                -            0.43            -            0.43
-          (0.38)            -           (0.38)
7. Incremental Operating Costs3            -                          0.207          0.20
8. Land Acquisition                        -             -            0.26           0.26
Total                                    26.44          3.22          6.08          35.74
_  (23.00)         (2.87)           -          (25.87)
1 Includes national-shopping, international-shopping and engagement of consultants
2 Not-IDA financed
3 Includes maintenance and insurance costs for computer equipment, local staff costs, and reallocation
compensation.
4 PPWSA will finance US$5.08 million equivalent for the installation of pipes for the secondary and tertiary
network in the southern district of Chamcar Morn, US$0.16 million equivalent for construction of the training
center and US$0. 12 million for site cleaning of Chruoy Chang War WTP.
5 PPWSA will finance US$36,000 equivalent for equipment for the training center.
6 PPWSA will finance about US$0.22 million equivalent for costs of local staff (training technician, computer
technician and water quality technician).
PPWSA will finance about US$0.2 million equivalent for reallocation compensation, computer maintenance &
insurance and local staff (administration staff).



95
Table A 11.5: Procurement Arrangements - Sihanoukville Component
(US$ million)                                                     .                   :
Procurement Method                    NIF2             Total
ICB             Otherl
1. Civil Works3                                 2.86                -             0.018            2.87
(2.45)              -                -             (2.45)
2. Equipment                                      -               0.06               -              0.06
-             (0.05)              -             (0.05)
3. Consultants
A. Construction Supervision                      -               0.28              -              0.28
-             (0.26)              -             (0.26)
B. TA                                            -               0.76              -              0.76
-             (0.69)              -             (0.69)
5. Training                                       -               0.15               -              0.15
-             (0.13)              -             (0.13)
6. Incremental Operating Costs4                    -                              0.057             0.05
7. Land Acquisition5                              -                 -              0.04             0.04
Total                                           2.86              1.25             0.10             4.21
_____________________________           (2.45)            (1.13)                            (3.58)
'Includes national-shopping, international-shopping and engagement of consultants
2Not-DA financed
3 Includes supply & installation contracts
4Include communication costs and local staff costs
5 For Well Treatment Plant.
6 MIME/SWSA will finance US$13,200 equivalent for costs of improving access road.
7 MME/SWSA will finance US$54,600 equivalent for local staff (administration staff).
Table A 11.6: Procurement Arrangements - Policy Framework Component
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                NIF2             Total
_________________________              _    X  ICB            O therl
1. Equipment                                                     0.19                              0.19
(0.18)                            (0.18)
2. Consultants (TA)                                               1.46                              1.46
.             (1.33)              -             (1.33)
3. Incremental Operating Costs3                                                   0.044             0.04
Total                                             -               1.65             0.04             1.69:
l_________________________________                -             (1.51)              -              (1.51)
Includes national-shopping, international-shopping and engagement of consultants
2Not-IDA financed
3 ITclude computer maintenance costs and local staff costs
4 RGC will finance US$44,000 equivalent for local staff of the Committee's secretariat.



Major Procurement Schedules*
I) Chruoy Chang War WTP - Tumkey Contract (ICB)
2 Q297    [   Q3 97             Q4'97    |   Q198           0 Q2'8
ID   Task Name                         Duration   Start    Finish  Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul
I    Specific Procurerent Notice             Od   6/16/97   6116/97                    16                         1
2    Draft pre-qualification documents (PD)  6w    313/97   4/11/97    .
3    IDA approval on the PD                 2w   5/12/97   5/23/97
4    Draft bidding documents (ICB)          8w    3/3/97   4/25/97
5    IDA approval on the ICB                2w   5/12/97   5/23/97     .
6    Issuance and submission of PD        11.2w   6/16/97    9/1/97
7    Evaluation of pre-qualified (PO) firm  Sw   10/3/97   11/6/97
8   The Government approval of PO firms     7w   11/7/97  12/25/97
9    IDA approval of P0 firms               3w  12126/97   1/15/98
10   Issue ICB to pre-qualified firn        12w   1/16198    419/98
11   Opening ICB submitted                   Od    4/9/98    4/9198                                                               419
12   Evaluation of bids (BER)                5w   4/10/98   5/14/98                                :
13   The Govemment review & approval         2w   5/15/98   5/28/98
14   IDA approval                            4w   5/29/98   6/25/98
15   Contract award                          2w   6/26/98    7/9/98
Task                                  Summary                              Rolled Up Progress
Project:                            Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 
Detail procurement schedules of other subcomponents are shown in the project implementation plans of each component.



Major Procurement Schedules*
2) Chamcar Mom  District Distribution Network - Supplying Pipes and Fittings (ICB)
Q2'97             Q3 '97             04'97              Q1 '98
ID   Task Name                            Duration      Start         Finish     May  Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb |Mar
I    Specific Procurement Notice                Od        6/16/97       6/16/97
2    Draft bidding documents (ICB)              8w         511/97       6/25/97
3    IDA approval on the ICB                    2w        6/26/97        7/9197
4    Issue ICB                                6.3w        8/20/97       10/2/97
S    Opening IC1B submitted                     Od        10297         10/2/97
6    Evaluation of bids (BER)                   8w        10/2/97      11/27/97
7    The Govemment review & approval            4w       11/27/97      12/25/97
8    IDA approval                               4w       12/25/97       1/22/98
.    Contract award                             6w        1/22/98        3/5/98
Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Prjete:199                           Progress                              Rolled Up Task:.
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 
*Detail procurement schedules of other sub-components are shown in the project implementation plans of each component,



Major Procurement Schedule*
3) Engagement Schedule of Supervision Consultants
Q3                            Q4                             Ql
ID   Task Name                                      Duraton        Start        Jul      Aug        Sep       Oct       Nov       Dec        Jan       Feb       Mar
I    Preparation of Request for Proposal (RFP)           1.6w        8/1/97
2    IDA approval of RFP                                 1.3w       8/13/97
3    Issuance of RFP                                     6.5w       8121197
4    Evaluation of technical proposals (PPWSA)            11w        1017/97
5    Aaproval by the evaluation comnmittee                3w       12123197
6    IDA approval of the evaluation                       2w         1/13/98
7    Negotiation                                          3w         1/27/98
8    Recommendation and approval of award                 2w        2117/98
9    IDA approval of contract proposal                    2w          3/3/98
10   Contract award                                        2w        3217/98
Task                                   Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project:_ _ _ _ _ _                                                 _ _ _
Date: 1/9/98                         Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milstone O
DOtail procurement schedules of other sub-components are shown In the project implementation plans of each component.



99
ANNEX 12
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Disbursement
1. Detail disbursement categories by Droject components
1) Phnom Penh Component
Category                Amount         % Expenditure Financed
(US$ million)
Turnkey contract (for Chruoy        20.61      100 % of Foreign,
Chang War WTP)                                 50% of Local
Other civil works
Equipment                           2.72       100 % of Foreign
Consultants                          1.90      100%
Connection Fees for Pilot Revolving  0.26      100%
Funds
Training                             0.38      100%
Total                               25.87
2) Sihanoukville Component
Category               Amount          % Expenditure Financed
(US$ million)
Civil works (includes supply &      2.45      100 % of Foreign,
installation contracts)                       30 % of Local
Equipment                           0.05      100 % of Foreign
Consultants                         0.95      100%
Training                            0.13      100%
Total                               3.58



100
3) Policy Framework Component
Category              Amount        % Expenditure Financed
(US$ million)
Equipment                         0.18      100 % of Foreign
Consultants                       1.33      100%
Total                             1.51
2. Estimated schedule of loan disbursement (in US$ million)
Bank's    Year and        Loan            Loan            Loan            Sector
Fiscal    Semester   Disbursement in   Disbursement    Disbursement    Disbursement
Year      Ending         Semester      Cumulative    Percent of Total     Profile
1998      06/30/98        0.85            0.85            3%               0%
1999      12/31/98        0.85            1.70             5%              50%       l
06/30/99        8.32            10.02           32%              58%
2000      12/31/99        8.32            18.34           59%              70%
06/30/00        4.98            23.32           75%              78%
2001      12/31/00        4.98            28.30           91%              86%
06/30/01        1.26            29.57           96%              90%
2002      12/31/01         1.26           30.83           99%              98%
l  06/30/02      0.13            30.96           100%            100%
Note: The sector disbursement profile has been developed on the basis of several typical water
supply and one sewerage project in the region.



101
ANNEX 13
CAMBODIA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
L. Overview
1.    Cambodia Urban Water Supply Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system - which
was be confirmed at negotiations - was designed to provide project managers with information on
progress made towards accomplishing project objectives and its impact on beneficiaries.
Information on institutional, technical and financial aspects will also be periodically collected so
that the specific needs of a 'bottom-up', transparent, project design are met.
2.    The M&E system has two distinct aspects. The first relates to tracking quantitative
information showing financial and physical progress in achieving project milestones. The second
relates to reviewing the impact of project implementation, so that there is an opportunity to
change or modify the succeeding year's program design. The latter depends on the extent to
which information gathered enables contractors, consultants, PPWSA, MIME/SWSA, relevant
national agencies, and IDA understand what appears to be working and what isn't during the
course of project implementation. Financial and physical progress will be gathered from (i)
supervision reports on financial and accounting information and (ii) project team staff,
consultants, and contractors during studies, design works, civil works, and project supervisions.
Collected information will be analyzed jointly by project consultants, PPWSA, MIME/SWSA, the
Coordinating Committee, and IDA.
3.    Key performance indicators, which can be either numeric or qualitative, were confirmed at
negotiations. The indicators are classified into the following categories:
a) Input indicators measuring the quantity (and sometimes also quality) of resources
provided for project activities.
b) Output indicators measuring the quantity (and sometimes quality) of services that have
been created or provided through the use of inputs.
c) Outcome indicators measuring the quantity (and sometimes quality) of direct results that
have been achieved through the provision of project services.
d) Impact indicators measuring the degree to which wider sector/project objectives are being
achieved through the direct outcomes of project activities.
4.    Overall, input/output indicators are measures of implementation performance, and
outcome/impact indicators form the basis for monitoring the impact of the project. These
indicators will be supplemented by qualitative evaluations of project performance.



102
H. Summary of M&E Responsibilities
5.     Table A 13.1 below shows how M&E responsibilities will be shared among the different
stakeholders.
Table A13.1 M&E Responsibilities
Entities                                    Responsibilities
Coordinating Committee (CC) with   Overall
secretariat assistance by MIME's   - Policy and Overall Guidance
UPWS                               - Applying the lessons learned for future projects
For Policy Framework Component
- Administration of M&E system at both implementation and post-
implementation stages
- Collecting raw data for performance indicators
- Monitoring financial terms/physical progress of project
implementation
- Analysis and evaluation of project experiences
- Applying the lessons learned for future projects
- Report to IDA
PPWSA                              For Phnom Penh Component
- Administration of M&E system at both implementation and post-
implementation stages
- Monitoring financial terms/physical progress of project
implementation
- Analysis and evaluation of project experiences
- Report to World Bank
SWSA                               For Sihanoukville Component
- Administration of M&E system at both implementation and post-
implementation stages
- Monitoring financial terms/physical progress of project
implementation
- Analysis and evaluation of project experiences
- Report to IDA
Supervision Consultant(s)          For Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville Components
- Collecting raw data for performance indicators.
- Assisting PPWSA and SWSA in analysis and evaluation of project
performance
- Report to PPWSA and SWSA
Other Consultants and Contractors  - Assisting the project coordinator and supervision consultants to
. collect raw data for the project performance indicators



103
III. Key Performance Indicators
CAS Objectives                   IMPACTS: Did the project achieve  lobjectives?                                                    (CAS Objectives to BankMission)
1. Rehabilitation of essential   1. Annual increase in access of urban population to safe drinking water and   Strategic monitoring of project  Risks:
infrastructure in urban areas    improved sanitation                                               outcomes by donor community     - Key reforms in legal and regulatory arrangements
2. Improve coordination between  2. Annual investments by private sector in water supply infrastructure  and RGC in terms of       delayed
donors supporting the Cambodian  3. Reduction in annual financial support from RGC budget to urban water    accomplishing CAS objectives  Assumvtion:
water sector                     utilities                                                                                         Risk will be mitigated by long-term collaboration
between RGC and donor community
Project Development Objectives    OUTCOMES: Did the project achieve its development objectives?                                    (Development Objectives to CAS Objectives)
Risks:
1. Water supply constraints reduced for all categories of consumers                              - Political risks reduce effectiveness of program
Augment water supply m Phnom     2. Multiplicity in sector responsibilities eliminated             CDC, MOEP and MOEF              - Differences in donor conditionalities reduce
Penh and Sihanoukville cities    3. PPWSA graduates from financial dependence on RGC               monitor and evaluate project    development outcomes
perforsnance, and finalize a   Assumptions:
Assist RGC develop water and                                                                       national water and sanitation   Risks nitigated by:
sanitation sector policies that provide                                                            policy framework                - Involving key stakeholders in policy dialogues
sustainable services to urban                                                                                                      - Providing sufficient time to implement sector policies
residents
PPWSA Component             :   Year Persons served  lFW   Oreratina Ratio  AveraeeTariff                                          Risks
T    A   T    A    T    A            T     A             PPWSA/MOEF                     - Implementation capacity constraints reduce UFW
1998   40%        53%        65%             796   796                                           program effectiveness
1999   48%        48%        65%               (in Riels)                                        - Power rate increases opeatng costs
2000   60%        44%         65%                                                                Assumptions
2001   70%/o      42%         65%                                                                Risks mitigated by:
2002   85%        40%:        65%                                                                - Periodic reviews of financial performance
- TA support through consultants and tWinming
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _   _ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ arr ange men ts
Slhanmoukvifle Component         Year Persons served  UFW   Operating. Ratio  Averaee Tariffs                                      Risks:
T    A     T    A    T    A           T     A                                            - Excess demand in town remains unhanged, to the
1998   15%        18%         60%           1241    1241          SWSA/MIME/MOEF                 detriment ofthe poor and local conmercial/indusrial
1999   20%        18%         60%              (in Rids)                                         growth
2000   30%h        18%        60%                                                                Assumptions
2001   40%         17%        60%                                                                Risks will be mitigated by:
2002   50%         18%        60%                                                                - Regular reviews of tariffs
- Financing of study of supply augmntdation option and
commercialization of SWSA
- Specific steps to protect poor consumers
WSS Poqcy Component              Letter of Sector Policy    Action Plan to implemelt specific                                      Risks:   :
recommendations                                                    - Problems of coordinaing between
T     A                    T        A                       CC/MIME/MOEF/PPWSA              different RGC agencies
1999                       2000                                                              - Difficulty in understanding policy implications of
project experience
.                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Assumptions
Risks will be mitigated by.
- Sharing of infonmation by workdbpe, xseinar.s and
study tours



104
StibhprojctsI INPi 1                                                                                                                  ( OinpolenJs lo. h li(pius)
tL)[er PI-1,ArCIIIelt    ('011pleft,11  (000m3l.R  of' otatl
V 'r   , \y. \ctlual
PPWSA Component                   T  A     T      A       T     A      T     A      T      A         PPWSA/MOEF                      Risks:
C       1998  1998    1998           110           3%                                             -Cash flow problems because of investment bunching
1999         120          50%                                               - Implementation capacity problems
2000         120           40%                                              Assumvtions:
2001         185            6%                                              Risks will be mnitigated by:
2002         240            1%                                              - Regular reviews of fnancial indicators
(of $25.87 nillion)                                    - Twinning amangement
____________________ - Appointment of consultants to assist PPWSA
Silhnoukville Component           T  A     T     A        T     A     T      A      T      A         SWSA/MIME/MOEF                  Risks:
C       1998 1998    1998            2            7%                                               - Implementation capacity problems
1999          2           87%                                               - Risk of inadequate /poor quality groundwater in
2000        4.5            5%                                               project-fnanced wells
2001          6            1%                                               Assumptions:
(of $3.58 mnillion)                                    Risks mitigated by:
- Consultant assistance for SWSA
- Preliminary investigations conpleted
WSS Pollcy Component               N/Ad    T      A         N/A    N/A               T     A         CC/MIME/MOEF                    Risks:
1998                             1998     10%                                              - Imiplemenmtation capacity problems
1999     56%                                              - Difficulty in pulling togetr sector policy experience
2000     23%                                              Assumptions:
2001      10%                                             Risks mitigated by:
2002       1% m                                            Appoinent of consultants with proven track records
_____________________________                              ~~~~~~~~~(of   81.31_m illion)__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Note:    N/A- Not Applicable
T - Target
A - Actual
UFW - Unaccounted for water



105
ANNEX 14
CAMBODIA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supervision Plan
IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities
1.     The staff input indicated in Table A13.1 below is in addition to the regular
supervision needs at headquarters to review progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc., and to write an implementation completion report, which is
estimated at 6 staff weeks during FY98 and 10 staff weeks during FY99 through FY02.
The Bank Resident Office assistance (from the Thailand office for procurement) is
estimated at 8 staff weeks from FY99 to FY02. Accordingly, the total IDA supervision
input is estimated at 72 staff weeks, of which 18 staff weeks would be at headquarters, 46
staff weeks in the field, and 8 staff weeks would be from the Bank's Thailand Office.
Table A 13.1: Bank Field Supervision Input into Key Activities
Expected Skill       Staff Input
Approximate Dates             Activity                   Requirements        (staff weeks)
June 1998     Project Launch workshop and       - Institutional (Water
Supervision (review of work progress, Sector Policy) Specialist  6
financial performance, and tariff  - Project Engineer
adjustment requirement)          - Financial Specialist
December 1998    Supervision mission              - Institutional Specialist    4
- Project Engineer
June 1999     Supervision mission (review of work  - Institutional Specialist
progress, financial performance, and  - Project Engineer       6
tariff adjustment requirements)  - Financial Specialist
December 1999    Supervision mission              - Institutional Specialist    4
- Project Engineer
June 2000     Mid-term review                  - Institutional Specialist
- in-depth assessment of physical  - Project Engineer
progress and institutional performanc - Financial Specialist   6
- Evaluation of tariff adjustment
requirements                        _
December 2000    Supervision mission              - Institutional Specialist    4
- Project Engineer
June 2001     Supervision mission (review of work  - Institutional Specialist
progress, financial performance, and  - Project Engineer       6
tariff adjustment requirements)  - Financial Specialist
December 2001    Supervision mission              - Institutional Specialist    4
- Project Engineer
June 2002     Implementation completion mission   - Institutional Specialist
- Project Engineer            6
- Financial Specialist



106
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.    Overall coordination of the project would be the responsibility of MIIME as a
secretariat of the Coordinating Committee comprising the Mnistry of Economy and
Finance, CDC, MNIME, MPWT, the Ministry of Environment, the Phnom Penh
Municipality, and PPWSA. This would include inter alia (i) providing guidance on timing
and form of reporting implementation progress; (ii) arranging meetings with government
officials during mission's field visits; (iii) chairing mission's opening and wrap-up
meetings; and ensuring timely information to the Bank and proposals for satisfactory
resolution of any unexpected issue during implementation.
3.    The following Reports on Implementation Progress would be submitted to the
Bank:
Semiannually: - Project status reports on implementation, including monitoring of state of
environment;
Annually:    - Annual updated financial projections of PPWSA and SWSA
- Audited financial statements of PPWSA and SWSA, including a separate
opinion on Statement of Expenditures and the Special Account for the
credit; and
Other:      - Evaluation report on project implementation.
4.    Information collected for the Project Performance Monitoring System (described
in Annex 13) will be utilized to prepare the semi-annual report and the Project Evaluation
Report.
Outline of semi-annual status report
5.    The semi-annual status report will be prepared by PPWSA and SWSA. The report
should comprise a descriptive part and appendices; the descriptive part should not exceed
twenty pages and should cover the following items:
(a)   General description of the project: A concise summary of project
objectives, description cities' components, financing, initial and latest
estimated costs, initial and latest schedule, key data of credit and project
agreements and of various amendments;
(b)   Project overview, physical accomplishment: Status of implementation
progress for each component of the project, procurement, information on
inspection of manufacturing, input of supervising consultant; monitoring of
environment, compliance during the reported period;
(c)   Procurement status: List of awarded contracts with dates of award, start
and completion of contract, allowed time extensions, and variations,



107
contract amounts in various currencies and status of disbursement for
contracts, projected and actual disbursement S-curve for the total cost;
(d)   Institutional status: Progress of institutional improvements in water
companies, performance of advisers and achievements in staff training;
(e)   Problems affecting implementation: Description of problems and proposed
or taken actions.
6.    Appendices will list personnel provided by the implementing agencies, by the
consultants and by contractors, key meetings, important visits on site, photographs,
location plans of the project showing planned and achieved progress and monitoring &
performance indicators.
7.    The report will include key monitoring indicators shown in Annex 13.
Outline of the evaluation report on project implementation
8.    The evaluation report will be prepared by PPWSA (for Phnom Penh component),
SWSA (for Sihanoukville component) and the Coordinating Committee with secretariat
assistant by MIME (for Policy Framework component). It should not exceed ten pages
and the performance judgments and analyses should cover the following specific aspects:
(a)   Project objectives: A concise statement and evaluation of major objectives
as presented in the SAR, including any changes made during
implementation. The evaluation will assess the clarity of the objectives,
their realism, and whether they are important for the country and sector.
(b)   Achievement of project objectives: An assessment of the project's success
(substantial, partial, negligible) in achieving its major objectives, in
connection to outputs of the Monitoring and Evaluating System (Annex
13).
(c)   Implementation record and major factors affecting the project: An analysis
of the factors that affect implementation. The factors are divided into
those not generally subject to government or provinces control, those
subject to government and provinces control, and those subject to the
water supply authorities control.
(d)   IDA performance: An assessment of IDA's performance (highly
satisfactory, satisfactory, deficient) in project identification, preparation
assistance, appraisal, and supervision.
(e)   Water supply authorities and provinces performance: An assessment of the
performance of involved water companies and provinces (highly



108
satisfactory, satisfactory, deficient) in preparing, implementing, and
operating the project.
(f)    Assessment of outcome: A rating of outcome (highly satisfactory,
satisfactory, unsatisfactory, or highly unsatisfactory) based primarily on
how well the project achieved its objectives and how sustainable it is likely
to be.
(g)   Future operation: A description and assessment of the plan for the
project's future operation, including understanding the measures to
maximize the project benefits, and the indicators for monitoring and
evaluating future operations.
(h)   Key lessons learned: A discussion of the most significant positive and
negative lessons learned from the project's implementation, showing how
they are reflected in the arrangements for its future operations. This
section also identifies those lessons most relevant to similar future projects
in this sector in Cambodia.
9.    PPWSA and SWSA will submit the evaluation report to IDA after completing the
project and in time stipulated in the Project Agreement.



109
ANNEX 15
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financial Statements of PPWSA and SWSA
Unaudited Income Statement- Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
Year ended December 31, 1996
Item                                    KR ('000) )(000)
Water sales                                    5415626.6                1969.3
Connection fees                                2925141.5                1063.7
Ret. eaniing adjustment                        205844.1                  74.9
Other income                                   1417090.3                 515.3
Total income                                   9963702.5                3623.2
Cost of sales
Spare parts                        792268.2                     288.1
Spare parts costs                  157735.9                      57.4
Cost of meters                     420533.6                     152.9
External install. Cost             102552.0                      37.3
Labour cost on installation        395293.8   1868383.5         143.7    679.4
lectricity                                     3007402.3                1093.6
Fuel                                             27688.5                  10.1
Sub contractors                                   8272.0                   3.0
Salaries & labour                  194428.9                      70.7
Contractors wages                   29097.0                      10.6
Bonus in Riel                      529479.7                     192.5
Bonus in $                          40482.8                      14.7
Other allowances                     2315.0                       0.8
Allowances/missions KR               8701.0                       3.2
Allowances/missions $                1277.0    805781.4           0.5    293.0
Chemical- alum                     528616.3                     192.2
Chemical- lime                      54040.7                      19.7
Chemical- chlorine                  88834.4    671491.4          32.3    244.2
Small maintenance                  194957.4                      70.9
Pipe maintenance                   264717.1                      96.3
Other maintenance                  290809.7    750484.2         105.7    272.9
Disconmection costs                               5356.0                   1.9
Other costs                                     228583.8                  83.1
Total operating costs                         7373443.1                2681.3
Operating profit                               2590259.4                 941.9
Depreciation                                   8034323.9                2921.6
Other costs                                      48484.0                  17.6
Net earnings                                  -5492548.5               -1997.3



110
Unaudited Balance Sheet- Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
as at December 31, 1996
Item                                KR ('000)                  $ ('000)
Current assets
- Working funds                2774721.9                     1009.0
- Trade receivables             3623389.5                    1317.6
- Provision for doubtful debts  -2025516.3                   -736.6
- Other receivables             261123.3                       95.0
-Inventories                   4924656.2    9558374.6        1790.8   3475.8
Other assets
- DeferTed debits               665412.2                      242.0
- Other assets                    19837.3     685249.5          7.2    249.2
Fixed assets
- Buildings on freehold land   59469609.5                   21625.3
- Accumulated depreciation    27641116.1   31828493.4       10051.3  11574.0
-Machinery                     53745587.9                   19543.9
- Accumulated depreciation     6555858.4   47189729.5        2383.9  17159.9
- Laboratory equipment           156887.8                      57.1
-Accumulateddepreciation          15688.8     141199.0          5.7     51.3
- Water equipment             109843014.6                   39942.9
-Accumnulated depreciation     52132000.8   57711013.8      18957.1  20985.8
- Transportation equipment     2463343.7                      895.8
- Accumulated depreciation      280504.6    2182839.1         102.0    793.8
- Office fumiture                90720.0                       33.0
- Accumulated depreciation        9072.0       81648.0          3.3     29.7
- Office equipment              455301.1                      165.6
- Accumulated depreciation       45530.1      409771.0         16.6    149.0
- Land                                      19833500.0                7212.2
- Meters                                      420533.6                 152.9
- Meter installation                          497845.8                 181.0
Total fixed assets                         160296573.2          0.0  58289.7
Total assets                               170540197.3          0.0  62014.6
Current liabilities
- Electricity                  3299548.4                     1199.8
- Refundable deposits           634903.2                      230.9
- Other                         445956.1    4380407.7         162.2   1592.9
Non current liabilities
- Owed to Govermment             574334.1                     208.8
- Foreign grants               13048412.2                    4744.9
- World Bank loan               5847073.1   19469819.4       2126.2   7079.9
Total liabilities                           23850227.1                8672.8
Capital account
- Revaluation reserve         130318846.4                   47388.7
- Opening retained eanings     -2257433.4                    -820.9
- Loss for year                -5492548.4                   -1997.3
-Othercapital                 24121105.6  146689970.2        8771.3  53341.8



Unaudited Income Statement- Sihanoukville Supply Authority
Year ended December 31, 1996
KR(OO)                 SCOOO)
income
Comm water sales     293157.7                  106.6
Other water sales    188929.5  482087.2         68.7  175.3
Penalty revenue                     126                  0.0
Total income                   482213.2                175.4
Operating exp.
Electricity          292010.7                  106.2
Fuel                  71725.4  363736.1         26.1  132.3
Chemicals                        18776.3                 6.8
Repairs & maint                 26389.8                  9.6
Salaries & labour                16941.8                 6.2
Baddebts                            366                  0.1
Depreiation                          0                  0.0
Other                           28398.7                 10.3
Admin. Charges
Total admin                     25308.8                  9.2
Total expenses                 479917.5                174.5
Net income                       2295.7                  0.8



112
Unaudited Balance Sheet- Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority
as at December 31, 1996
KR ('000)               S ('000)
Current assets
Treasury                        14841.6                     5.4
Cash in transit                 16596.8    31438.4          6.0   11.4
Accounts receivable             77141.5                    28.1
Payments to clear                 135.9    77277.4          0.0   28.1
Personal advances               4821.4                      1.8
Accts receiv. Suspense         155570.4                    56.6
Material general              372660.2    533052          135.5  193.8
Total curmnt assets                      641767.8                233.4
Fixed assets
Blds on freehold land          38395.3                     14.0
Accum. depreciation                  0    38395.3           0.0   14.0
Machinery                     231334.2                     84.1
Accum. depreciation                  0   231334.2           0.0   84.1
Transport equipment              22340                      8.1
Accum. depreciation                  0      22340           0.0    8.1
Office furniture                   952                      0.3
Accum. depreciation                  0        952           0.0    0.3
Non allocated                    38457                     14.0
Accum. depreciation                  0      38457           0.0   14.0
Transport not in use             24000                      8.7
Accum. Depreciation                  0      24000           0.0    8.7
Total fixed assets                        355478.5          0.0  129.3
Total assets                             997246.3                362.6
Current liabilities
Fournisseurs                              146764.8                53.4
Taxes on salaries                          4181.2                  1.5
Total current liabilities                  150946                54.9
Equity
Government capital            349447.3                    127.1
Grants from foreign countries  564367.5                  205.2
Subventions                    62910.4   976725.2         22.9  355.2
Retained earnings                        -130425.1          0.0  -47.4
Total equity                             846300.1           0.0  307.7



113
ANNEX 16
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financial Analysis
A.   Financing Rationale
1.    The proposed project will finance the expansion of water supply and distribution
for the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA) and the Sihanoukville Water
Supply Authority (SWSA) as well as strengthen the institutional capacity of both
institutions to improve operating and financial performance. The successful financing of
the proposed project rests on a number of important outcomes, including:
1)    Approval and implementation in 1997 of the proposed tariff structure
which will allow the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority to fully recover costs.
2)    Implementation of the sub-decree which commercializes Phnom Penh
PPWSA and establishes it as a financially autonomous entity.
3)    Adoption and retention by PPWSA's new board of directors of policies
which are consistent to the organization's long-term financial sustainability.
4)    Establishment of a regulatory and institutional framework for maintaining
service standards and for ensuring the long-term financial viability of the
enterprises within the sector, particularly in re-setting tariffs to ensure full cost
recovery.
5)    Continuation of PPWSA's recent progress in improving its operating and
financial performance efficiency, particularly with regard to water losses,
commercial practices and the management of its working capital.
B.    The Water Authority Financial Projection Model
2.    A fully integrated financial projection model was developed to support the
financial analysis of the proposed project and to assess the financial implications to    *
PPWSA and the SWSA of the various policy options that are currently under
consideration by the Government. The model addresses the implications of the new water
tariff levels and structure and the new installation charges that were adopted by the
Government. Essentially, all important elements of the project were incorporated in order
to assess the related financial implications and long-term viability. The financial model



114
accepts as inputs, basic assumptions on revenues, operating expenses, new investment and
ongoing capital expenditures, financial management and current operating performance
efficiency, in addition to other assumptions on financing and amortization of existing
loans.
3.    The financial model was programmed to simulate the activity of a water authority
which focuses essentially on water supply and distribution to its customer base. Existing
financial and accounting principles currently adopted by the water authority were
incorporated to simulate as much as possible the financial management principles of
PPWSA and SWSA. As such, the total funds available through internal and external
financing sources are allocated based on specific priorities as would typically be done by
their respective directors of finance. Requirements for working capital, obligations for
debt servicing are fiilfilled first in order to finance ongoing operations of the water
authority. Then, new investment requirements are satisfied, first from the remaining
internally generated funds and then estimated secured debt and new equity financing.
Specifically, external sources of funds, including both borrowings and equity contributions
are drawn as independent variables in order to bridge whatever financing gap may result
between the estimated capital expenditures and remaining cash available after debt service
and working capital obligations. As such, the model draws only those funds that may be
absolutely necessary to meet the needs of the project while still maintaining adequate
levels for working capital.
4.    Annual cash surpluses are initially reinvested in short-term deposits earning a
minimal rate of return. Cash deficits that may result in any given year during the projected
period, would be financed, first by the sale of excess short-term deposits or other current
assets while still maintaining an appropriate level of current assets to meet ongoing
working capital requirements. Unidentified debt financing is not considered an option for
meeting shortfalls in cash during the latter years of the projection period. Therefore, new
equity contributions are regarded as the only final source of financing year-end shortfalls
of cash. However, since these additional equity contributions may not necessarily be
identified or assumed at the outset of this assessment, other assumptions such as, scaling
down or extending the program are revised first in order to derive a workable solution. If,
on the other hand, there is absolutely no conceivable way to achieve this and still retain the
integrity of the proposed project, it would therefore be necessary to assume contributions
of additional equity that would necessarily be agreed with the project sponsor and the
Government. If this cannot be accomplished satisfactorily, while maintaining a healthy
financial position, major revisions in the program would then need to be seriously
considered.
1.   Significant Accounting Principles
5.    The PPWSA and SWSA follow conventional accounting principles and standards
similar to other commercial utilities. However, accounting for SWSA will need to be



115
strengthen considerably for consistency and reliability. Accounting is done on an accrual
basis, and standard commercial procedures are utilized for the accounting of revenues and
expenses as well as fixed assets and debt obligations. During the review, several accounts
of PPWSA were still undergoing a process of reconciliation as part of the corporatization
of the water utility. These involved particularly the reconciliation of inter-governmental
trade accounts such as trade receivables and payables, as well as determination of
outstanding debt obligations which may or may not be left with the utility for debt
repayment. In the past, both PPWSA and SWSA had been holding excessive working
capital in the form of inventories, liquid funds, and receivables and had also lagged
significantly in making timely payments to suppliers, particularly Electricite' de Combodge
and other Government agencies. These practices stem in part from lack of financial
autonomy of either authority, and the related uncertainties of not having full control of the
enterprise's financial flows. With the implementation of the decree which corporatizes the
PPWSA, greater financial autonomy will be granted to the authority for undertaking
reasonable commercial and financial management practices. On the other hand, it is
anticipated that SWSA will continue to function essentially as a department of MIME
even though the accounts can be fully separated as it were functioning as a financially
autonomous entity.
2.    Assumptions to the Financial Proiections
a) General Projection Parameters
-  Projection Period. For projection purposes the total project period is
approximately 13 years, starting 1998 as the first projection year.
-  Currency. Riels in millions.
-  Exchange Rate. An exchange rate of 3,400 Riels to US$ 1.00 was
utilized.
-  Price and Cost Escalation Rates. Projections of both revenue and
expense items were made in current terms.
-  Income and Other Taxes. The water authorities are currently exempt
from income taxes. However, new policies from the Government
concerning PPWSA's tax liability are in the process of being
developed. The Ministry of Finance is also in the process of applying a
1% turnover tax which for projection purposes it is assumed that
PPWSA would pass on to its customers.
- Depreciation. For projection purposes, fixed assets are depreciated
based on a schedule of 65 years for PPWSA and 40 years for SWSA
once they are placed in service.



116
b)     Key Operating Assumptions
Key operating assumptions are presented in the table below.
Item                               Phnom Penh         Sihanoukville
Plant design capacity before project  110,000 M3per day  8,000 M3 per day
Plant design capacity after project  175,000 M3per day  9,500 M3per day
Revenue producing water before   40,800 M3per day    1,600 M3per day
project
Revenue producing water at year 2003   100,100 M3per day  5,100 M3per day
Unbiled water 1997                    57%                 28%
Unbiled water 2003                    40%                 17%
Average tariff rate 1998          1,353 RieLskm        868 Rielscm
Connections before project           34,000               868
Connections at 2003                  90,397              2,039
Ave. domestic taifiM3 2003            1,743              1,118
Ave. comniercial tariff/ M3 2005      $0.38              $0.65
Billing efficiency before pioject     92%                 95%
Billing efficiency 2007               98%                 98%
6.     Revenues. PPWSA Water realize their revenues purely from water sales based on
usage, and commodity and installation charges. In addition, each water authority realize
other earnings from interests on short-term deposits. Summarized below are important
assumptions concerning the derivation of projected revenues.
7.     Water Production Capacity. Presently, PPWSA generates all its water capacity
from the surface water of the Mekong River. Current pumping capacity is approximately
40.15 million cubic meters annually and production is at almost at this peak, given the
current installed technical capacity of the plant and the high volume of unaccounted for
water, which in 1995 was more than 60% of total water production. The proposed
project which will add to the pumping capacity another 23.7 million cubic meter of
critically needed water supply to the system.
8.     SWSA has a installed water supply capacity of 800,000 cubic meters annually.
The project will expand total water supply to 2.14 million cubic meters annually.
9.     Service Connection Program.  Since both PPWSA and SWSA currently cover a
very small percentage of the total population, limitation to water supply and distribution
were based solely on the technical water production capacity as well as the ability of the
water authority to actually connect new customers. As such, a five year connection
program formed the foundation for driving water sales projections. Opening active
connections for year-end 1997 for PPWSA and SWSA were respectively, 34,000 and 868.



117
Over the five year period it is projected that these would increase to 90,397 for PPWSA
and 2,329 for SWSA.
9.    Water Losses. Water losses were divided into two categories: (i) technical losses
arising through seepage during distribution; and (ii) unaccounted non-technical losses
arising mostly through theft or improper commercial practices. This differentiation is
important because on the technical side, such losses affect mostly operating costs, while
non-technical losses affect mostly the revenue side of the operation. Together however,
they are factored to estimate the actual annual water production that is needed to equate
to the water sales derived by the projected consumption, which in turn is derived by the
programmed installation of new service connections. PPWSA has had substantial
problems with unaccounted for water, at more than 80% only several years ago. More
recently measures have been taken to reduce sharply both technical and non-technical
losses and at year end 1997, unaccounted for water had already been reduced to 57%. It
is anticipated with the additional interventions water losses will continue to decline over
the 5-year investment program period to approximately 42% in year 2001.
10.   SWSA's water losses are significantly lower, averaging about 28% and less during
1997 and prior years. It is anticipated with new investments and stricter controls that
there losses can be reduced to 18% by the year 2000.
11.   Water Sales TanffStructure  Water sales are projected based on a tariff
structure that, with few exceptions consists of the parts: (i) usage charges by type of
customer (ie. residential or commercial); and (ii) an installation charge. Both the
PPWSA and SWSA have recently implemented new tariff increases which are designed to
fully recover costs. Such tariff levels however, will need to be periodically adjusted to
stay at pace with inflation as it affects the cost of doing business.
12.   Discountsfor On-Time Payment and Penalties and Fines. Either authority does
not apply either discounts for on-time payments nor penalties and fines on overdue
accounts.
13.   Sewerage Operations. No sewerage operations are contemplated at this time.
c)    Operating Expenses
14.   Power, chemicals and labor comprise the major operating cost elements for the
supply and distribution of water.



118
15.   Power. Power is required for pumping for surface water and for distributing it
through the network. The kilowatt requirement for PPWSA per cubic meter of water is
estimated at a constant .23 at a cost per kilowatt of 353 Riels based on historical
experience. SWSA's power costs are significantly highly due to the need to pump surface
water to a high elevation where the treatment plant is situated. In turn the kilowatt
requirement for SWSA per cubic meter of water is estimated from .83 to .77 at a cost per
kilowatt of 550 Riels based on historical experience.
16.   Chemicals. Alum, Chlorine and Lime are the primary chemical s used for
treatment. Based on historical usage an average .03 52 tons of a mix of these chemicals is
required per cubic meter of water at an average cost ranging from 428,000 Riels per ton
to 1.05 million Riels per ton. In addition, chemical requirements are also applied a 17%
factor on total water production.
17.   Transportation & Equipment. This cost item represent primarily fuel costs for
vehicles servicing the system which are estimated for both authorities at approximately
one vehicle per 1200 service connections. Fuel and maintenance costs per are estimated at
7,000 Riels per vehicle.
18.   Maintenance Materials and Expenses. These expenses are based on 3% of the
net assets values of the SWSA plant and 1% for PPWSA. The difference stems primarily
from the fact that PPSWA has revalued its fixed assets while SWSA has not. Once, the
new investments come on stream for SWSA at the more current costs, the assumption for
maintenance will also drop to 1% of net fixed assets.
19.   Labor Costs. Operational labor expenses are estimated based on a ratio of
operational employees to service connections which are estimated for PPWSA and SWSA
based on historical their respective performance of 106 and 24 service connections per
employee. However, over the five-year investment program period operational
improvement should allow for greater efficiency of personnel thus increasing for both
authorities allowing them to increase the connections per required employees.
20.   General & Administration Expenses. These expenses are estimated based on 825
Riels annually per employee of SWSA and 3,700 Riels per employee for PPWSA, based
on past experience.
21.   Other Operating Expenses. This expense category includes other operating
expenses and miscellaneous items which have not been specifically identified and are
estimated at 2,000 Riels annually per service connection for SWSA and 3,200 Riels per
connection for PPWSA.



119
d)    Capital Expenditures
22.   The financial projections factored a 5-year capital investment program for the
water authority made up of a series of projects to be financed by IDA the ADB as well as
other donor agencies. These include:
Five-Year Investment Program for Each Component
(in Billion Riels)
Description                  Phnom Penh         Sihanoukville
IDA - Water Supply                        -               15.4
Japan - Distribution Network           65.5
IDA - Urban Water Supply               132.9
ADB - Distribution Network             50.4
Total Investment                      248.8              15.4
23.   IDA. The proposed project will finance: (i) the Choury Changwar pumping
station and treatment plant; (ii) Accounting and Technical TA for institutional building;
and (iii) Chacar More Pipes and (iv) the Water Supply Project for SWSA.
24.   ADB. The project includes improvement of main feeders for an approximate cost
of 50.4 million Riels over a four year program period. A loan of Riels 37.9 billion has
been approved by the ADB at 20 years maturity, 5 years grace and at an interest rate of
6.5%.
25.   JICA. The 7 January Rehabilitation project is estimated to cost approximately
65.5 million Riels and will be funded as a grant to PPWSA.
e)    Sources of Financing
26.   PPWSA. The component will be financed approximately Riels 95.8 billion
through a 17-year loan with 5 year grace and an interest rate of 8.5%.
27.   SWSA. The component will be financed approximately Riels 13.1 billion through a
40-year loan with 5 year grace and an interest rate of 1.0%.



Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
SUMMARY OF KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Million Riels                                                                                                                                                         3400 Riels = 1US$
1998          1999          2000           2001          2002           2003          2004           2005          2006           2007
PROJECTKIN PARAMETERS
Currency:                            Rils
Prices/Costs:                        Current
Exchange Rate:                       3400 Riels = 1 US$
Rev. Escabbon Rate:                           9.0%           6.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%
Rev. Escalation Factor                         1.09          1.16          1.21           1.27          1.34           1.40          1.47           1.55          1.63           1.71
Cost Escalation Rates:                         9.0%          6.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%
CostEscalation Factor                          1.09          1.16          1.21           1.27          1.34           1.40          1.47           1.55          1.63           1.71
OPERATING RESULTS
Operating Revenues                           16,940        19,861        22,458         31,582        41,598         43,678        45,862        48,155         50,563         53,091
OperatingExpenses                            9,900         11,239        11,628         15,141        18,677         19,788        20,724        21,743         22,830         23,961
Net Income                                    1,280         2,101         1,829          4,050         6,317           458          2,769         5,207          7,813         10,626
Cash fromOperatons                           8,273         10,051        11,978         21,538        28,539         24,939        26,407        28,002         29,765         31,735
Orerating Ratio                                54%           53%            49%           41%            40%           44%            44%           44%            43%           43%
Total Assets                               319,293        435,314       479,637        497,200       504,756        495,072       487,641       482,675        480,338        480,829
Working Capital                             13,064          9,717         7,015         14,903        23,599         28,002        34,717        43,869         55,628         70,199
Working Capital (Days)                         475           311            217           354            455           509            603           726            877          1,055
OPERATING EFFICIENCY
SeFvice Connections                          44,655         49,210        52,753         71,744        90,397         90,397        90,397        90,397         90,397         90,397
AverageTariff (Riels)                           868           920            966          1,014         1,065          1,118         1,174          1,233         1,294          1,359               O
Average Water Monthly Bil (Reils)            31,614         33.633        35.477         36,684        38,348         40,265        42,278         44,392        46,612         48,942
Sewerage Surchage                               -              -             -              -             -              -             -             -              -              -
Percenl Growth in Connedions                   14.5%         10.2%          7.2%          36.0%         26.0%           0.0%          0.0%          0.0%           0.0%           0.0%
WaterSold(in OOOofm3)                         19,520        21,590        23,251         31,139        39,062         39,062        39,062        39,062         39,062         39,062
Water Losses                                    53%           48%            44%           42%            40%           40%            40%           40%            40%           40%
ImpactofWaterLossesonOperatingCosts           2,136          1,943         1,781          2,199         2,539         2,539          2,539         2,539          2,539          2,539
LossofSalesduetoWaterLosses                  19,103         18,333        17,646         22,870        27,732        29,119         30,575        32,103         33,709        35,394
Utilization of WaterCapacity (ShortySurplus  78,393         91,315        91,206        126,869       396,270       396,270        396,270       396,270        396,270       396,270
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS
Acc. Receivable (Days)                         146            108            80            84             84            82             82            82             82            82
Current Ratio                                  4.56          3.20          2.47           2.28          1.65           1.86          217            258           310            373
Debt/Equiy Rabo                               0.11           0.28          038            039           0.35           0.32          0.29          026            023            019
Debt Service Coverage                                                     35.71           4.14          2.75           130           141            1 57          1 74           195
Self Financing Rato                           19.6%         10.2%         25.5%          81.3%        168.3%
RetumonRevenues                               7.6%          10.6%          8.1%          12,8%         15.2%           1.0%          6.0%          10.8%         15.5%         20.0%
Retum on Assets                               0.4%           0.5%          0.4%           0.9%          1.3%          0.1%           0.6%          1.2%           1.9%           2.7%
Retum on Equity                               0.5%           0.6%          0.5%           1.2%          1.8%          0.1%           0.8%          1.4%           2.1%           2.8%
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                           56,387       126,574         56,401        19,658         10,804           --                                         -
Investment Project                          55,292        122,280        48,520         14,559         8,176
Capitalized Interest                          1,095         4,294         7,880          5,099         2,629
FINANACING PLAN                             56,387        126,574        56,401         19,658        10,804           -              -
Grants                                       30,930         51,057         6,387          1,956         1,103
ADB                                           16,000        15,620           248           182            -             -
IDA                                           4,600         46,500        35,500          8,970           270           -              -             -              -
Loan3
Outstanding Loans                                                                                  -             -                            -
GovtGrants&PPWAContnbution                    4,857         13,397        14,266          8,550         9,431



Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
INCOME STATEMENT
MUon Riels                                                                                                                                                       3400 Rits =1US$
1993         1999          2000          2001          2002          2003          2004          2005          2006           2007
Revenues
Water Sales                                 16,940        19.861        22,458        31,582        415968        43.678        45,862        48.155        50563         53,091
Commodity & Metr Rental Charges                -             -
Sewerage Surchage
Less: Discounts                                -             -             -                           -
Installation Charges                         1.233         1,053           860         4.838         4,990           -             -             -             -             -
Interest on Tme Deposits                                     376          288           258           629          1,049         1,269         1,589         2,032         2.605
Penatbies & Fnes                                             -                    -                    -
NET REVENUES                                18,173        21,289        23.606        36,678        47.217        44.727        47,131        49,745        52,595        55.696
OPERATING EXPENSES
Water Supply and Distributon
ChemicalTreatment                              798           867           911         1.236         1,574         1,653         1.736         1,822         1.913         2,009
PowerCost                                    3,596         3,810         4,001         5.432         6,916         7,262         7,625         8,006         8.407         8.827
Transpoation & Equipment                       284           332           373          533            705          741           778            816           857           900
Mainbnance Mlbeials                          1,346         1,774         2,187         3.025         3,152         3,208         3,262         3,313         3,362         3,406
LaborCosts                                   1,844         1,964         2,062         2,802         3,531         3,708         3,893         4,088         4,292         4,507
General &Administrative                      1,706         1,620         1,341         1,541         1,969         2,155         2,336         2,545         2,790         3,042
BadDebtExpense                                 170          689           593           502           739           966           995          1.047         1,099         1,154
Local Govt. Revenue Share                      -             -             -             -                                  -             -                    -
OtherOPEX                                      156          182            160           69            91            95           100            105           110           116
Subtotal                                 9.900        11,239        11.628        15,141        18,677        19,788        20,724        21.743        22,830        23.961
Sewerage Operations
Wastewater Treatment Plant                     -             -             -             -             -
Pump Stations
Sewerage System
Subtotal                                   -             -             -             -
NET OPERATING PROFIT                         8,273        10.051        11,978        21.538        28,539        24,939        26.407        28,002        29,765        31,735
Depreciaton                                 6,993         7,949         9,735        12,388        14,335        14.458        14,458        14,458        14,458        14.458
Interest                                      -             -             415         5,099         7,887        10.023         9,180         8,337         7,494         6,651
Subtotal                                 6,993         7,949        10,150        17,488        22,222        24.481        23,638        22,795        21.952        21,109
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                          1,280         2,101         1,829         4.050         6,317          458          2,769         5,207         7,813        10,626
Income Taxes                                  -             -             -             -             -                           -             '             '             -
NET PROFITI(LOSS)                            1.280         2,101         1,829         4,050         6,317          458          2,769         5.207         7,813        10,626



Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
Mlon RiMst                                                                                                                                                  3400 RIels 1US$
11o6         low           2000         21            2002         2003          2004         2005          2006          2007
mTERN  CASH GENERATION
NotIncomeBefobrelt                         1,280        2.101         2.244        9,149        14.204       10.481        11.949        13,544       15.307        17,277
Add: Deprecitimn Exp                       6.993        7.949         9.735       12,366        14.335        14,458       14,458        14,458       14,458        14.456
Operating Cash Flow                        8273        10.051        11,978       21S38         28,539       24.939        26.407       28.002        29.765        31,735
Add: Beg Cash Poslion                      2,004        1,650         1.873          969         1,262        1.556         1,649         1,727        1,812         1,903
Wo4dngCap Ind(Dec)                         (747)        (1,152)       (959)        1,416         1.206         (100)         234           213           218          232
CASH BEFORE OE3T SERVICE                   11.025       12.853        14.811       21,091        28,593       26,596        27,822       29,517        31,359        33.406
DEBT SERVICE
loterest Charges                             -                         415         5.099         7,U87       10.023         9,180        8.337         7.494         6,651
Rqyeiet of Note                              -                                                                  -                          -             -             -
Principal Repay_me-- -                                                        -                  2,526       10.512        10,512       10,512        10.512        10.512
Total Det Sere                               -.                         415         5.099        10.412       20.536        19,693       18.850        18.006        17.163
CASH AFTER DEBT SERVICE                    11,025       12.853        14.396       15,991        18.181        6,060         8.129       10.667        13.352        16,242
CAPITAL INESTMENT REQUIREMENTS
Inv e_nint Pwrets                         55,292      122.280        48.520       14,559         8,176                 -                   -                                N
CaphliNd Irweat                            1.095        4,294         7,880        5,099         2.629          -             -            ,
Annual CapialfInvesdmet                   56.387      126.574        56,401       19,658        10.804                        -            -
Add: Cash Endihg Balnce                    1,650        1.873          969         1,262         1,556        1.649         1.727        1,812         1.903         1.997
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS                    (47.012)     (115,594)     (42,973)       (4.929)       5,820        4.411         6,402        8.855        11,450        14,246
FUNDS FROM LOANS & GRANTS
Grants                                     30.930       51.057         6,387        1,956         1.103          -             .
ADB                                        16,000       15.620          248           182           -                   -            -                    -            -
IDA                                         4,600       46.500        35.500        8,970          270                         -            -             -
Loan3
Outstanding Loans
Working Capital Loans                        -            -             -            -             -
FundsFromLoans                            51,530      113.177        42.135       11.108         1,373                        -            -             -            -
CASH SURPLUSI(DEFECIT)                      4.518        (2,417)       (839)        6.179         7.193        4.411         6,402        8,855        11,450        14.246
If Cash Suspkm:
(Purchase)/Seil Deposits                  4,518                                   6,179         7,193        4,411         6,402        8,855        11,450        14,246
If Cash Deficit:
Sale of Deposits                            -          2,417          839                                       -            -
Additional Equity Needed                                  -            -
Total Cash Rald                                          2,417          839



Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
BALANCE SHEET
Millon Risk                                                                                                                                                     3400 Riels 1US$
1998         1999          2000          2001          2002          2003          2004          2006          2006          2007
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                       19,835        19.835       19.835        19,835        19,835        19.835        19,835        19,835        19,835        19,835
Plant in Service                          234,198       302,238      365,410       492.123       502,927       502,927       502,927       502,927       502,927       502,927
Less: Acc. Deprecation                      6,993        14,942       24,677        37,068        51,401        65,859        80,317        94,775       109,233       123,690
Net Fhed Assets                           247,040       307,130      360,567       474,892       471,361       456.903       442,445       427,987       413,529       399,072
WorkinProcess                              55,292       113,827      107,055             0            0             0             0             0             0             0
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                         302,332       420,957      467,622       474,892       471,361       456,903       442,445       427,987       413,529       399,072
Other Assets                                 230           230           230           230          230           230           230           230           230           230
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                       1,650         1,873          969          1,262         1,556         1,649         1,727        1,812         1,903         1,997
Short-Terin Deposits                       7,518         5,101         4,262        10,442        17,635       22,046        28,448        37,304        48,753        62,999
Escow Deposits                                 0           664          894          2,128         3,341        3,341         3,341         3,341         3,341         3,341
Prepald Expenses                              28            32           33            43            52           -             -             -             -
Accunts Receivable (Net)                    6,889         5,931        5,021         7,393         9,660         9,954        10,470        10,992        11,542        12,119
InventoresoSpares                            646           526           605           810          920           950           979          1,010         1,040         1,072
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                        16,731        14,127        11,784       22,078        33.165        37,939        44,966        54,458        66,579        81,527
TOTAL ASSETS                               319,293       435,314      479.637       497,200       504,756       495,072       487,641       482,675       480,338       480,829
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
EQUITY
Paid InCapikal                            251,133       251,133      251,133       251,133       251,1i3       251,133       251,133       251,133       251,133       251,133
Retained Eamings                            1,280         3,382        5,211         9,261        15,578        16,036        18,805        24,012        31,825        42.451
Grants                                     30,930        81,987       88,374        90,330        91,433        91,433        91,433        91,433        91,433        91,433
Capital Contributions                                                                  -             -                           -
TOTAL NET WORTH                            283,343       336,602       344,717      350,723       358,143       358,602       361,370       366,577       374,390       385,016
BORROWINGS
Outstanding Loans                            5,847         5,847        5,847         5,847         5.847         5,847         5,847         5,847         5,847         5.847
ADB                                         21.835        37,455       37,703        37,885        35,359        32,834        30,308        27,782        25,257        22,731
IDA                                          4,600        51,100       86,600        95.570        95,840        87,853        79.867        71,880        63,893       .55.907
Loan3
Other Credits                                  -             -            -             -             -             .-                     -           -      * 
Less: Current Podion                           -             -                        2,526        10,512        10,512        10,512        10,512        10,512        10,512
TOTAL BORROWINGS                            32,282        94,402       130,150       136,776      126,534     . 116,022       105,509        94,997        84,485        73,972
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                            3,300         3,746         3,876        5,047         6,226         6,596         6,908         7.248         7,610         7.987
Notes Payable                                 -
Guaatee Deposirs                             368           664           894         2,128         3,341         3,341         3,341         3.341         3,341         3,341
* CurrentPosionoDebt                   -                     -             -           2,526        10,512       10,512        10,512        10.512        10,512        10,512
TOTAL CURRENT LABILTIES                      3,668         4,410         4,770        9,701        20,079        20,449        20,761        21,101        21,463        21,840
TOTAL UABS. & NET WORTH                    319,293       435,314       479,637      497,200       504,756       495,072       487,641       482,675       480,338       480,829



Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority
SUMMARY OF KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Million Riels                                                                                                                                                          3400 Riels = 1US$
1991          1999           2000          2001           2002          2003           2004          2005           2006           2007
PROJECTION PARAMETERS
Curency:                              Riels
PrikesdCosts:                        Current
Exchange Rate:                       3400 Riels = 1 US$
Rev. Escalabon Rate: *                         90%           6.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%
Rev. Escalaton Factor                          1.09          1.16           1.21          1.27           1.34           1.40          1.47           1.55           1.63          1.71
Cost Escaaton Rates:                           9.0%          6.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%           5.0%          5.0%           5.0%
CostEscaaton Factor.                           1.09          1.16           1.21          1.27           1.34           1.40          1.47           1.55           1.63          1.71
OPIERATING RESULTS
Operating Revenues                             750          1,708          2.658         2,797          2,941         3,088          3.242         3,404          3,575          3,753
Operating Expenses                             569          1,148          1,607         1,908          1,998         2,092          2,190         2,302          2,404          2,511
NetIncome                                      163            782          1,990           550           153            243           352            441            554           676
Cash fmm Operations                            182            806          2.041         1,008          1.066         1,162          1.269          1,355         1,464          1,582
Orerabng Ratio                                 76%            59%           44%            65%           65%            64%           63%            63%            62%           61%
Total Assets                                  2494         16,829         19,958        20,897         21,308        21,614         21,656        21,798         22,045         22.418
Worldng Capital                                663          1,404          3,320         4,199          5,134         6,165          6,929         7,784          8,751          9,840
WorddngCdapial (Days)                          420            440           744            792           925          1,061          1,139          1,217         1,310          1,411
OPERATING EFFICIENCY
Service Connections                             886          1,176          2,329         2,329          2,329         2,329          2,329         2,329          2,329          2,329
AverageTariTf(Riels)                           1,353         1,434          1,506         1,581          1,660         1,743          1,830          1,922         2,018          2,119
Average WaterMonthly Bill (Reils)             70R553       121,068         95,088       100,084        105.216       110,476        116,000       121,800        127.890        134,285
Sewerage Surchage                                -             -              -             -              -             -              -             -              -              -
Percent Growth in Connections                   0.0%         32.7%          98.1%          0.0%           0.0%          0.0%           0.0%          0,0%           0.0%           0.0%
WaterSold (in 000OfOm3)                         554          1,191          1,765         1,769          1,771         1,771          1,771          1,771         1,771          1,771
Water Losses                                    23%            20%            18%           17%           17%            17%           17%            17%            17%           17%
ImpactofWaterLossesonOperatingCosts              28             80            61             61            61             61            61             61             61            61
Loss of Sales due to Water Losses               224            427           564            585           611            641           674            707            743           780
Utilization of Water Capacity (Short)/Surplus           -             -                     -              -             -              -             -              -             -
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS
Acc. Receivable (Days)                         133            141            136           131           131            131           131            131            131           131
Current Ratio                                  2.75          2.79           3.85          4.07           4.60          4.11           440           470            504            542
Debt/Equity Ratio                              0.67          3.20           2.17          1.98           1.94          182            1.68          1 54           1 39           1.24
Debt Service Coverage                       1206.92        113.73         326.62         21.36          11.51         1258            352           379            407            4.40
Self Financing Ratio                          46.2%          5.6%         232.8%        230.3%         692.4%
Retum on Revenues                             21.8%         45.8%          74.9%         19.7%           5.2%          7.9%          10.8%         13.0%          15.5%          18.0%
RetumronAssets                                11.3%          5.3%          12.9%          3.6%           1.0%          1.7%          2.7%           3.6%           48%           6.3%
Retum on Equity                               12.9%         20.5%          33.6%          8.4%           2.3%          3.5%           4.8%          5.7%           6.6%          7.5%
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                            1,109         13,207           877           286            198            -             -                              o 0            0
Investrnent Project                           1,105        13,148           758            189           198            -             -                               0             0
Capitalized Interest                             4             59            119            97                          -                                             0             0
FINANACING PLAN                               1,109        13,207           877            286           198            -                            -
Grants                                          256    .    1,774            117             67            71
ADB                                              -             -              -             -              -             -             -              -              -
IDA                                             849         11,374           641            122           128            -             -              -              -
Loan3                                            -             -              -             -             -
Outstanding Loans                                -             -              -             -             -              -             -
Intemally Generated Financing                     4             59           119             97             (0)



Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority
INCOME STATEMENT
Million Riels                                                                                                                                                       3400 eiols = 1US$
1998          1999          2000          2001          2002          2003           2004          2005          2006           2007
Revenues
Water Sales                                    750          1,708         2,658         2,797          2,941         3,088         3,242          3.404         3,575         3,753
Commodity & Meter Rental Charges                              -             -             -              -             -             -              -
Sewerage Surchage                                             -                           -              -             -             -
Less: Discounts                                 -                           -             -              -                    -             -
Installation Charges                                          227           952           -
Interest on Time Deposits                                      18            39           119           123            166           216           252            293           340
Penatfies & Fines                               -             -             -             -              -
NET REVENUES                                   750          1,954         3,648         2,916          3,064         3,254         3,459          3,657         3,868         4,093
OPERATING EXPENSES
Water Supply and Distribution
Chemical Treatment                               34            69            99           104            109           t14           t20            126           t32           139
Power Cost                                      354           776          1,099         1,154         1.212         1,272          1,336         1,403         1,473          1,547
Transportation& Equipment                         6             8            16            '7            18             19            20            21             22            23   '*"
Maintenance Materials                             9            11            19           195           197            196           194            192           188           184   un
Labor Costs                                      96           178           198           208           225            240           255           279            293           307
General & Administrative                         33            62            69            73             78            83            89             97           102           107
BadDebtExpense                                   35            42           100           151           152            161           169            177           186           195
Local Govt. Revenue Share                                                   -              -             -
Other OPEX                                        2             3             6             6             6              7             7              7             8             8
Subtotal                                   569          1,148         1,607          1,908         1,998         2,092         2,190          2,302         2,404         2,511
Sewerage Operations
Wastewater Treatment Plant                      -                            -             -             -
Pump Stations
Sewerage System
Subtotal                                    -             -             -             -
NET OPERATING PROFIT                            182           806         2,041          1,008         1,066         1,162          1,269         1,355         1,464          1,582
Depreciation                                    18            18            45           425           783            788           788            788           788           788
Interest                                         0             7             6            32            131           131           129            126           122           118
Subtotal                                     18            24            52           458           913            919           917           913            909           906
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                             163           782          1,990          550            153           243           352            441           554           676
Income Taxes
NET PROFITI(LOSS)                               163           782          1.990          550           153            243           352            441           554           676



Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority
FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
Milblon Riels                                                                                                                                                             3400 Riels  1US$
*ssBe         iss            2000           200e          2002           2003           2004           2005          2006           2007
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
Net Income Before Int                           164            788          1.996           583            283           374            481            567            676            794
Add: Depreciation Exp                            18             18            45            425            783            788           788            788            788            788
Operating Cash Flow                             182            806          2,041          1,008         1,066          1,162          1,269          1,355         1.464          1,582
Add: Beg Cash Position                           31            142           287            402            477           499            523            547            576            601
WorkingCapInci(Dec)                             (300)          205           280            719             41             11             17             9             16             14
CASH BEFORE DEBT SERVICE                         513            743          2,049           690          1,502          1.650          1,774         1,894          2,023          2.168
DEBT SERVICE
Interest Charges                                  0              7             6             32            131           131            129            126            122            118
Repayment of Notes                                             -              -             -              -
Principal Repayments                                           .              -             -              -              -             375            375            375            375
Total Debt Service                                 0              7             6             32            131           131            504            500            496           493
CASH AFTER DEBT SERVICE                          512            737          2.042           658          1,372          1,519         1,270          1,393          1,526          1.676
CAPITAL INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                                                              _
InvestmentProjects                             1,105        13,148           758            189            198            -              -             -              -              -      O
Capitalized Interest                              4             59           119             97
Annual Capital Investment                      1,109        13,207           877            286            198            -              -             -
Add: Cash Ending Balance                        142            287           402            477            499           523            547            576            601            628
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS                          (739)       (12.757)          763           (105)           674           996            723            818            925          1,048
FUNDS FROM LOANS & GRANTS
Grants                                           256          1.774           117             67             71                           -             -              -
ADB                                                             -              -             -              -
IDA                                              849         11,374           641            122            128            -             -              -
Loan3                                            -              -              .
Outstanding Loans
Working Capital Loans                                   -             -                     -              -
Funds From Loans                               1.105        13,148           758            189            198            -             -              -
CASH SURPLUSI(DEFECIT)                           366            391          1,521            84            872           996            723            818            925         1,048
If Cash Surplus:
(Purchase)/Sell Deposits                       366            391          1,521             84           872            996           723            818            925          1,048
If Cash Deficit:
Sale of Deposits                                              -              -                                                          -      -                      -
Additional Equity Needed
Total Cash Raised                                -                                                                                             -                -



Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority
BALANCE SHEET
Million Riels                                                                                                                                                 3400 Riels = 1US$
1998         1999          2000          2001         2002          2003          2004          2005          2006         2007
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                         -             -             -            -             -                           -
Plant in Service                             359           418         1,642       15,834        16,033        16,033        16,033        16,033       16,033        16,033
Less: Acc. Depreciation                       18            36           81           500         1,289         2.077         2,864        3,652         4,440         5,228
NelFixedAssels                               342           383         1,561        15,328       14,743        13,956        13,168        12.380       11,693        10,805
WorkinProcess                               1,105       14,253        13,906          -             -             -             -             -            -
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                          1,447        14,636        15,468        15,328       14,743        13,956        13,168        12,380        11.593        10,805
Other Assets                                   5             6            5             5             5             5            5             5             5             5
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                         142          287           402           477          499           523           547           570          601           828
Shod-Term Deposits                          366           757         2,279         2,363         3,235         4,231        4,954         5.772         6,697         7,745
Escrow Deposiks                              -             19            94            94           94            94            94            94           94            94
Prepaid Expenses                              2             3             5             5            6
Accounts Receivable (Net)                    278           670         1,007         1.015        1,073         1,126         1,182         1,241         1,303         1,368
Inventodes of Spares                         254           452          699          1,611        1,653         1,680         1,708         1,730         1,753         1,773
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                        1.042         2,188         4.485        5,565         6,560         7,653         8,483         9,412        10,448        11,608    1..
TOT-AL ASSETS                               2,494        16,829        19,958        20,897       21,308        21,614        21,656        21,798       22.045        22,418 
-4
LIABIUTIES & NET WORTH
EQUITY
Paid In Capital                              846           846          846           846           846           846          846           846           846           848
Retained Eamings                             163           945         2,935        3,485         3,638         3,881         4,232         4,674         5,228        5.904
Grants                                       256         2,030         2,147         2,214        2,284         2,284         2,284         2,284         2,284         2,284
Capital Contibutions                                                            -            -             -                                  -            -
TOTAL NET WORTH                             1,265         3,821         5,928        6,545         6,768         7,011         7,363         7,804         8,359        9,035
BORROWINGS
Outstanding Loans                             -             .                          .                           .
ADB                                           -
IDA                                           849        12,224        12,865        12,986       13,114        13,114        12,739        12,365        11,990        11,615
Loan3
Other Credits
Less: Current Portion                         -             -             -            -             -             375          375           375           375           375
TOTAL BORROWINGS                              849        12,224        12.865        12,986       13,114        12,739        12,365        11,990        11,615        11,241
CURRENT UABILMES
Accounts Payable                             379           765         1,071         1,272         1,332        1,395         1,460         1,535         1,603         1,674
Notes Payable                                -                           -             -            -             -
Guarantee Deposits                           -              19           94            94            94            94           94            94            94            94
Current Portion of Debt                      -                           -                          -             375          3             375           375
TOTALCURRENTUABIUTIES                         379           784         1.165         1,366         1,426        1,863         1.928         2.003         2.071         2,143
TOTAL LIABS. & NET WORTH                    2,494        16,829        19,958        20,897       21,308        21,614        21.666        21,798        22,045        22,418



ANNEX 17
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Economic Analysis Tables
Table A17. 1 Phnom Penh Water Supply Project- Economic Analysis
costs                Water billed             Physical water benefits      Prices dom.    Res   Con   Price         Economic Benefits         Net   NPV
Year  Year    With proj.   W'out        With  W'out  Incr.       Domestic       Comm     Total    incr water   saving  surp  comrn     Domestic     Comm    Total  Benefit  10%
No         Capital O & M O & M   Incr. roj  proj            Res cs  Con surp.                    Wih  W'out  with            water   uc   Con sup proiy
_ . ~~~(W) _nil  (Sm)  (Smdl) 'OoOmyOnm/y 'C0m3/y  OOOm3ty  v  (/3(SM)(/4)S/3(SM)$lu)(mil Snl |Snl)(ml)
1   1998      1.9   2.4   2.4    1.9 19557  19557                                               0.096   0.67   0.57   0.06   0.27                                   -1.92  -1.92
2   1999    15.4   2.4   2.4   15.4 21637  19419  2218         1176      120      922     2218   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    0.58    0.01    0.29    0.68 -14.76 -13.42
3   2000    14.0   2.4   2.4   14.0 23302  19281  4021        2104       260     1656     4021   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    1.04    0.01    0.52    1.57 -12.66 -10.46
4   2001      3.7   3.1   2.4   4.4 31213  19141  12072       7167       546     4360    12072   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    3.55    0.03    1.37    4.94  -0.15  -0.11
5   2002      0.2   3.8   2.4   1.5 39300  18999  20300    12131         933     7237    20300   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.27    8.32   6.47   4.42
6   2003             3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  18856 20433    12131        933     7380    20443   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.32    8.36   7.81   4.85  OD
7   2004             3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  18712 20588    12131        933     7524    20558   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.36    8.41   7.85   4.43
8   2005             3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  18566 20733    12131        933     7670    20733   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.41    8.46   7.89   4.05
9   2006             3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  18419 20881    12131        933     7818    20881   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.46    8.50   7.93   3.70
10   2007            3.8   2.4   1.4 39300  18270 21029    12131         933     7966    21029   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.50    8.55   7.97   3.39
11   2008     0.1   3.8   2.4    1.5 39300  18120 21179    12131         933     8116    21179   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.55    8.60   7.91   3.05
12  2009      1.4   3.8   2.4   2.8 39300  17968 21331    12131          933     8267    21331   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.60    8.64   6.66   2.33
13  2010      1.3   3.8   2.4   2.7 39300  17815  21484    12131         933     8481    21484   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.64    8.69   6.77   2.16
14  2011      0.3   3.8   2.4    1.7 39300  17660 21639    12131         933     8575    21639   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.69    8.74   7.80   2.26
15  2012             3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  17504 21795    12131        933     8732    21795   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.74    g.79   8.18   2.15
16   2013            3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  17346 21953    12131        933     8889    21953   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.79    8.84   8.23   1.97
17   2014            3.8   2.4   1.4 39300  17187 22113    12131         933     9049    22113   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.84    8.89   8.27   1.80
IS   2015            3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  17026  22274    12131       933     9210    22274   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.89    8.94   8.32   1.65
19  2016             3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  16863  22436    12131       933     9373    22436   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    2.94    8.99   8.36   1.50
20   2017            3.8   2.4    1.4 39300  16699  22600    12131       933      9537    22600   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    3.00    9.04   8.41   1.37
21   2018     0.1    3.8   2.4    1.5 39300  16533  22766    12131       933      9703    22766   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    3.05    9.09   8.36   1.24
22   2019     1.4   3.8   2.4   2.8 39300  16366 22934    12131          933      9870    22934   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    3.10    9.15   7.11   0.96
23   2020     1.3   3.8  . 2.4   2.7 39300  16196 23100    12131         933    10039    23103   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    3.15   . 9.20   7.23   0.89
24   2021     0.3   3.8   2.4    1.7 39300  16026 23274    12131         933    10210    23274   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    3.21    9.25   8.26   0.92
25   2022            3.8   2.4   1.4 39300  15853  23447    12131        933    10383    23447   0.18   0.67   0.49   0.05   0.31    6.00    0.05    3.26    9.31   8.65   0.88
18.8%  24.05



Table A17.2 Sihanoukville Water Supply Project - Economic Analysis
Costs           Water consumned           Physical water benefits       Dom. Prices Res   Con  Conmm             Economic benefits          Net  NPV
Year  Year   Wit proj    W'ot Inc With  W'ot  Incr.    Domestic consumption    Conum  Total With W'out  Sav  Surp  Water          Domestic         Comm  Total  Bem   @
No         Cap  O&M  O&M          Proj  Proj         Res  Tanker Water  Con  cons         proj  proj   with        price  Res  Tanker Water  Con                      10%
say   del  point  ~suip                     proj                Say         points  Surp
Smiu  Smit  Smtil  Smilt   z00 _ _ _         _ _    '1yOWm/y _00fy  _m/y SM3   _M   S/M3 1            _    $mil  Smin$ll   lSl   m  aI $Mill    i  SmiD  Smill
1   1998    0.2   0.1   0.1  0.2  578   578                                                0.18  0.82  0.64  0.06  0.29                                        -0.21  40.21
2   1999    2.7   0.3   0.1  2.8  1166   578   588    42                296   250   586  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.02                  0.02  0.10  0.14  -2.65  -2.41
3   2000    0.1   0.4   0.1 0.4  1764   578  1186   210    84   200   307   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12              0.11  0.02  0.15  0.39  0.03  0.03
4   2001    0.0   0.4  0.1 0.3  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12               0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.36  0.27
5   2002    0.0   0.4  0.1  0.3  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12              0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.36  0.24
6   2003           0.4  0.1  0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396  I11   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12              0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.24
7   2004           0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.21
8   2005           0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.20
9   2006           0.4  0.1  0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.18
10  2007           0.4  0.1  0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III  385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12              0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.16
11   2008    0.0   0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.37  0.14
12   2009    0.2   0.4  0.1  0.4  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III  385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12              0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.19  0.07
13   2010          0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.12
14  2011           0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.11
15   2012          0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.10
16   2013          0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.09
17  2014           0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.08
18   2015          0.4  0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12              0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.08
19   2016          0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.07
20   2017          0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.06
21   2018    0.0   0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.37  0.06
22   2019    0.2   0.4   0.1 0.4  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   111   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.19  0.03
23   2020          0.4   0.1  0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12            0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.05
24   2021          0.4   0.1  0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12            0.22  0.01  0.15  0.49  0.38  0.04
25   2022          0.4   0.1 0.2  1764   578  1186   210    84   396   III   385  1186  0.26  0.82  0.56  0.06  0.39  0.12             0.22  0.01   0.15  0.49  0.38  0.04
10.1%   0.03



130
Table A17.3 Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville Water Supply Project
Overall Project Economic Analysis
_   Unallocated project costs  Comp. Benefts    Net   NPV @
Year  Year  Training Studies   Other   Total   Phnom   Sihnouk-  Project   10%
Penh        Ben.
No.        (Sinillion) (milliono)  ( Smillio) n) (Smillion) (Sniii on)  (Smimlin)  ($z(illiion)
1   1998     0.19             0.14    0.33    -1.92   -0.21    -2.47    -2.47
2    1999     0.17    0.25    0.80     1.22  -14.76    -2.65   -18.63   -16.94
3   2000     0.05             0.32    0.37  -12.66    0.03  -13.00   -10.74
4   2001      0.05            0.14    0.19   -0.15      0.36   -0.02    -0.01
5   2002     0.02             0.02    0.04    6.47    0.36    6.79      4.63
6   2003                                       7.81    0.38     8.19     5.08
7   2004                                       7.85    0.38    8.23      4.64
8   2005                                       7.89    0.38     8.27    4.24
9   2006                                       7.93     0.38    8.31     3.88
10   2007                                      7.97    0.38     8.35     3.54
11   2008                                      7.91     0.37    8.28     3.19
12   2009                                      6.66    0.19     6.85     2.40
13   2010                                      6.77    0.38    7.15      2.28
14   2011                                      7.80    0.38    8.18      2.37
15   2012                                      8.18    0.38     8.56     2.25
16   2013                                      8.23     0.38    8.61     2.06
17   2014                                       8.27    0.38    8.65     1.88
18   2015                                      8.32    0.38     8.70     1.72
19   2016                                      8.36    0.38    8.74      1.57
20   2017                                       8.41    0.38     8.79    1.44
21   2018                                       8.36    0.37    8.73     1.30
22   2019                                       7.11    0.19    7.30     0.99
23   2020                                       7.23    0.38    7.61     0.93
24   2021                                       8.26    0.38     8.64    0.96
25   2022                                       8.65    0.38     9.03    0.92
17.2%     22.2



131
ANNEX 18
CAMBODIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Documents in Project Files
Name of documents                   Prepared by     Prepared date
Technical Report for Rehabilitation and Extension of  GKW Consultant    June, 1995
Chrouy Chang War Treatment Plant
Revised Technical Report for Rehabilitation and  GKW Consultant   August, 1995
Extension of Chrouy Chang War Treatment Plant
Inception Report for Rehabilitation and Extension of  GKW Consultant  December, 1995
Chrouy Chang War Treatnent Plant
Final Feasibility Report for Rehabilitation and Extension  GKW Consultant    March, 1996
of Chrouy Chang War Treatmnent Plant
Preliminary Design Report for Rehabilitation and  GKW Consultant    June, 1996
Extension of Chrouy Chang War Treatment Plant
Final Report: Extension of Consultancy Services to the    GKW Consultant    July, 1996
Water Supply Authorities of Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville
Technical Review: Sihanoukville Water Authority   Fraser Thomas      June, 1995
Interim Improvements
Final Report: Sihanoukville Infrastructure Study  Fraser Thomas      July, 1995
Technical Appraisal Report: Water Supply Improvernent   Fraser Thomas  March, 1996
Project, City of Sihanoukville
History and Five Years Development Plan (1997-2001)  PPWSA         December, 1996
of Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
Project Implementation Plan: Urban Water Supply      PPWSA           April, 1997
Project - Phnom Penh component
Project Implementation Plan: Urban Water Supply   MIME(UPWS),        April, 1997
Project - Sihanoukville component                     SWSA
Draft Project'Implementation Plan: Urban Water Supply    Coordinating  April, 1997
Project - Policy Framework component                Committee



IBRD 28939
THAILAND                                                   LAO  PEOPLE'S  DEM. REP.                          URBAN          CAMBODIA
'----S                                                  *1_          .                                           -                     REHABILITATION PLAN OF
BBflIO. /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                k ~~~~~WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
/WATER TREATMENT PLANTS
, - X s . ( _ , r , e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                          PROJECT /g \
To BungLoL ' /*                .                                 !>                                             !            :                   <)   I E 'S21rAR  _ j / .SiN EXSTISNG TO BE REHABIUTATED
.,,. .   .N,o/Nhgen  4zz4 URBAN, BUILT-UP AREAS
)   M-onchey 0  /       ,  STUNG    X   T              R     f       N        G G                   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                    W     R         PLN
i9-)    /          4          <   5   \                         t             /  (t    z * ' 4             .     /         '    L mphof                 \                                               \              111       CHRTUOY CHANG WAR
\  k  4 ^t_                 \  r                            \   ' r jA    \    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ~           ~          ~~MONDULKIRII            _,
K pO 0B TI,pn, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      PUMPRK T
WATER TREATMEN
f                                                r  __ . Eut -$ X s:-' -' W \ " onorom ) PLANT
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(                                          K  . ; ;-  0
(0-                                  -~              QP    PPOPON  Ko<o                           --
12'
,,  /s                 /      (H- -;                                                    CA M B O D IA
KIng IN h    \ _ -I                                                                                                      SUPPLY  PROJECT
RIENNDAL  )$VAY                         PROJECT SITES                                                                                             I 99 
o   SELECTED CITIES                A
* PROVINCE CAPffALS/                 LO
TA.   yA                                     CMpcT NATIONAL CAPITAL/ED 
T  0                                                      ~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~RAILROADS  T.A 00LOE~
S.hEOBBUAAORB  .                                                                                 \      ,,...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,~~~~  '~~~~  CHM CARMRORN
VIETNAM ~~~~~~~~~RVESWATER TREATMENT PLANT
-. PROVINCE BOUNTARIBS                 CROOA-
o 25   50 Kilonotor
I    I                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUt IDARIES                              N=                  N,, U., Si rh. ~~ -INBRATOPO~BOIIDRIS  .,,~., PUNPU5 S~ ApLB,A Crp do p,O p,
25         SOAmR. hSe.                                                                                                                                                                                  Sd0pP0,OpOPOpPPSLOLOddLO,
JANUARY 1998



