Report No. PIC4468
Project Name                   Cambodia-Water Supply Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Water Supply and Pacific
Project ID                     KHPA45629
Borrower                       Government of Cambodia
Implementing Agencies          Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA)
Ministry of Industry Mines and Energy
(MIME)
Contact: Mr. Ek Sonn Chan, Director,
PPWSA
Address: North of Cambodia Railway
Station, Phnom Penh
Phone/Fax: (855) 234-28969
Tentative Appraisal Date       December 1996
Board Date                     February 1997
Date this PID Prepared         September 1996
Country/Sector Background. Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in
the world, and has unique difficulties to overcome as a result of
decades of internal conflict and genocide. As the government tries to
rebuild the country, one of its major tasks is to rehabilitate
infrastructure and to develop a cadre of people to run institutions and
utilities.
The water sector and sanitation sector requires urgent attention. The
institutional arrangements in the sector are complex. Water supply in
Phnom Penh is the responsibility of Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
(PPWSA), currently a municipal department and thus under the Ministry of
the Interior. Piped water supply for Cambodia's provincial cities is
the responsibility of the Unit of Potable Water Supply (UPWS) in the
Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME). Rural water supply and
sanitation come under the Ministry of Rural Development. Sanitation in
Phnom Penh is the responsibility of the department of public works of
the municipality, whereas the Ministry of Public Works oversees
sanitation in provincial cities. The department of Hydrology of the
Ministry of Agriculture collects hydrological data, but no authority
currently takes overall charge of managing the country's water
resources.
The water supply system in Phnom Penh has around 29,000 connections,
about half of which are metered. This is clearly inadequate for a city
with a population over one million. Unaccounted for water is around 65
percent of production, mostly non-physical losses. PPWSA has made
substantial progress managing its operations over the last three years
and now needs to become operationally and financially independent of the
municipality. The proposed project will help the authority make that
transition.



In provincial towns, the situation is substantially less advanced. The
largest piped water supply system is in Sihanoukville, which a water
supply authority (SWSA) with 750 connections supplying water to only 10-
15 percent of the city's domestic consumers. Forty percent of
production is sold to a single industrial consumer. The system is
severely constrained by lack of raw water resources. Since MIME took
responsibility for provincial water, in February 1994, it has effected
some institutional changes, but there is still considerable room for
improvement.
Project Objectives. The proposed project aims to enable the government
to develop equitable policies and efficient institutions for the water
sector and to increase water supply in the country's two largest cities.
Project Description. The proposed project will have three key
components focusing on: (a) policy and institutional development; (b)
water supply facilities in Phnom Penh; and (c) water storage, supply and
distribution facilities in Sihanoukville.
Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs, including
contingencies, is estimated at US$34.5 million. The project will be
financed from three main sources. An IDA Credit of US$30 million is
projected to cover 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange of
investment costs plus 100 percent of local costs for consultants.
Bilateral grant funds will cover some proportion of project costs.
Government contributions will be limited to five percent of project
cost. The Standard IDA conditions will apply to the Bank's credit of
US$30 million.
Project Implementation. The detailed elements of the organization and
management of the proposed project will be set out in a project
implementation plan. A Project Steering Committee will be established
to coordinate the activities of the key agencies involved. A project
implementation unit, reporting to the steering committee, will manage
procurement, supervise implementation and monitor progress.
Project Benefits and Sustainability. The benefits from the project in
both Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville will be substantial. Water supply in
Phnom Penh is estimated to increase from the current 110,000 m3 per day
to 175,000 m3 per day in 2000. This will allow increases in total
connections during the period, and make supplies to existing connections
more reliable. An estimated additional 260,000 people in Phnom Penh
will receive adequate safe drinking water. In Sihanoukville, the total
available water supply will increase from 2,300 m3/day to 6,000 m3/day,
and ,000 additional people will receive safe water supplies. This
implies important and substantial public health benefits, through both
improved water quality and increased consumption. Reliable water supply
will also remove a constraint to industrial development. There are thus
clear direct economic benefits. In addition, the proposed project will
improve management of the country's water institutions, and therefore
allow them to manage existing assets sustainably and make future
investments to expand services.
Lessons of Experience. IDA experience in Cambodia is still limited.
This project is the first in the water supply sector, as the portfolio
-2 -



is in an early stage of development. However, based on experiences with
the Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Credit 50-KH), several potential
problem areas can be identified: (a) government procedures on
procurement are not transparent and implementing agencies are unfamiliar
with Bank guidelines; (b) insufficient allocations of counterpart funds;
and (c) implementation difficulties related to security problems in the
country. The proposed project will include specific measures and/or
covenants to address (a) and (b). The security situation will be
closely monitored as part of project processing.
Environmental and Social Aspects.   The proposed project has a ' B
environmental rating.   The project's principal environmental impact will
the increased volume of sewage resulting from the increase in water
supply. The project will include a study on appropriate actions to
manage sanitation both in the capital and in provincial cities.
The main social issue is the displacement and resettlement of a few
households currently living on land and structures belonging to the
PPWSA. The Borrower has completed and submitted a satisfactory
acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation plan for this component of
the project consistent with Bank guidelines. No resettlement is
anticipated in the Sihanoukville component.
Project Risk. The proposed project involves some risks that will need
to be minimized. Perhaps the greatest relates to the viability of both
PPWSA and SWSA and their ability to raise necessary working capital.
The financial analysis highlighted significant problems for PPWSA
particularly high rates of unaccounted for water and poor billing
efficiency. These two problems have the potential to cause serious
financial difficulties particularly in view of the high levels of debt
that PPWSA will take on under the proposed project. Both PPWSA and SWSA
could suffer financial problems if they fail to set tariffs high enough
to recover costs. Both ADB and the Bank are reviewing these financial
risks to ensure that appropriate provisions and covenants are included
in the respective projects.
Lack of trained staff with experience in externally funded projects is
a concern for this operation. This is a first project of its kind for
the agencies involved, so there is a risk that without sufficient
technical assistance, the project implementation unit may be unable to
perform its functions. In the early stages of the project, procurement
and general project management related issues may slow down the progress
specifically due to the limited understanding of Bank procedures by the
implementing agencies. For these reasons, the project includes capacity
building, technical assistance and training.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
-3 -



Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 22, 1996.
- 4 -



