                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 30003

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-30410)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                          TO

                              THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                        FOR AN

                             URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                    January 21, 2004




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective February 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Riel
                               Riel 1.00 = US$ 0.00025
                              US$ 1.00 = Riels 3,982

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1    December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CC       Coordination Committee for Water and Sanitation Sector
CCW      Chruoy Chang War (water treatment plant)
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DPWS     Department of Potable Water Supply
EDI      Economic Development Institute
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
IDA      International Development Association
IDI      Institutional Development Impact
IT       Information Technology
lcd      Liter per capita per day
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIME     Ministry of Industry, Mines, and Energy
MIS      Management Information System
MOEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPP      Municipality of Phnom Penh
MPWT     Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MRD      Ministry of Rural Development
NGO      Non Government Organization
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PA       Project Agreement
PPWSA    Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SWSA     Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
UFW      Unaccounted for Water
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
WBI      World Bank Institute



                        Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                    Country Director:      Mr. Ian C. Porter, EACTF
                       Sector Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                   Task Team Leader:       Mr. Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares, EASUR

                                         CAMBODIA
                            URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P045629                                                  Project Name: URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Team Leader: Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares                            TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-30410
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (96%); Central government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/08/1996                                     Effective: 05/01/1998                06/02/1998
     Appraisal: 05/22/1997                                         MTR: 06/01/2000                  12/01/2000
      Approval: 02/17/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA/PHNOM PENH WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY;
                                           KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA/MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY; KINGDOM OF
                                           CAMBODIA/MINES AND ENERGY; KINGDOM OF
                                           CAMBODIA/COORDINATING COMMITTEE FOR THE WATER AND
                                           SANITATION SECTOR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   Keshav Varma
Team Leader at ICR:             Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares                   N. Vijay Jagannathan
ICR Primary Author:             Pierre de Raet


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


Background

The objectives and design of the project must be assessed in the context prevailing in Cambodia in
the mid-1990s. Despite the fact that Cambodia has abundant natural fresh water sources, only 32
percent of the country's population had access to safe water, and only 16 percent to sanitation.
This was reflected in very low health indicators. About half of the population of Phnom Penh and
its suburbs (estimated at about 1.1 million in 1995) had access to piped water, but for an average
of 12 hours a day only. In Sihanoukville, only some 13 percent of the population of the central
district, estimated at 50,000 in 1997, had access to piped water. On the institutional side,
responsibility for water and sanitation was extremely fragmented among various ministries and
organizations. The Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA) was under the Ministry of
Interior (and therefore dependent upon the Municipality of Phnom Penh - MPP - and its
Governor), while the Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority (SWSA) and other provincial water
utilities were deconcentrated departments of the Unit of Potable Water Supply (UPWS) of the
Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME).

After the 1991 peace accord, the donor community had started providing substantial support to
the sector, mostly in the form of physical rehabilitation, technical assistance (TA) and training,
mainly directed at Phnom Penh and a few provincial centers, including Sihanoukville. However,
PPWSA needed considerable improvement in operational and financial management (at appraisal
in 1997, unaccounted for water -UFW - was still 57 percent, down from 80 percent in 1993).
SWSA could not finance new source developments to meet demand and needed restructuring to
promote financial sustainability, commercial practices, and staff accountability.

In February 1996, the Government issued its first Socio-economic Development Plan
(1996-2000) which accorded water and sanitation a high priority. The Plan's long-term objectives
were for the water utilities to become self-sustaining commercial entities. In 1996, initial steps
were taken to improve the sector's institutional framework: (i) a law providing for greater
autonomy of public enterprises was enacted; (ii) PPWSA was established as a public enterprise
mandated to operate according to commercial practices; and (iii) in recognition of the need to
rationalize sector institutions, the Government created a Coordinating Committee for the Water
and Sanitation Sector (CC) to recommend a long-term national strategy for sustainable and
cost-effective urban water supply and sanitation.

Assessment of objectives

The objectives of the project were to: (i) improve drinking water coverage, quality and access in
Cambodia's two biggest cities of Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville; (ii) improve the performance,
both technical and economic, of the water utilities in these cities; (iii) enhance availability of water
for commercial and industrial purposes in these two cities as a spur to economic growth and as a
means of ensuring viability of the utilities; and (iv) help the Government develop and implement a
sectoral investment program based on a well-articulated water and sanitation policy framework.



                                                  - 2 -

These objectives were - and still are - highly relevant. They clearly addressed the physical
problems and institutional issues of the sector at the time. They were consistent with the
Government 's development objectives and with the CAS of 1995, the first prepared after the
peace accord. The CAS emphasized the need for rehabilitating critical infrastructure and
strengthening institutional capacity, including implementation performance and aid coordination.
These objectives were reiterated in the 1997 CAS and, were consistent with the Bank's Water
Resources Management Policy which was giving "...priority to countries where...the problems
of...service efficiency...are serious". Other more direct considerations justified the relevance of
the project: (i) PPWSA was the only institution capable of making large scale investments at the
time and the most likely to demonstrate that service could be sustained when appropriate policies
are adopted; (ii) it was in Phnom Penh, as the largest city, that the greatest impact and visibility
from improved services could be expected; (iii) investment in PPWSA facilities was critical in
ensuring that complementary transmission and distribution investments financed by other donors
would not be left ineffective; and (iv) Sihanoukville was chosen for two reasons: water service
was very limited while it is Cambodia's major port with the greatest potential for industrial,
tourist, and commercial growth; and (v) last but not least, SWSA was to be the pilot for other
provincial water utilities to move from rehabilitation to operation on the basis of commercial
practices, the key long-term objective of both the Government's and the Bank.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project was to be implemented between 1998-2002, in three components (a detailed
description of the components are in the Staff Appraisal Report - SAR):

1) Expansion of water supply in Phnom Penh (base cost US$29.17 million). This component
was to expand capacity, extend the network, and improve efficiency. It was to be implemented by
PPWSA under a Project Agreement with IDA.

2) Expansion of water supply in Sihanoukville (base cost US$3.5 million). This component
was to expand capacity by increasing water sources, improve efficiency, and help SWSA
restructure into a commercial enterprise. It was to be implemented by MIME and SWSA.

3) Development of a water supply and sanitation policy (base cost US$2.08 million). This
component was to help create institutions that could maintain and expand service in an efficient,
equitable, and sustainable manner, consistent with public demands. The component was to be
implemented by the CC.

3.4 Revised Components:

There were two revisions, although neither affected the objectives of the project. There were also
several reallocations.



                                                 - 3 -

In March 1999, the Government requested, under the Phnom Penh component, to replace the
district of Chamcar Morn by the district of Toul Kork to ensure consistency in network
rehabilitation between the investment programs of IDA and the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
This did not affect the material content (85 km of pipes and related fittings) of the component.
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended to reflect the change.

After the receipt of bids relating to the PPWSA component in June 1999, the Bank team identified
an uncommitted balance of about US$12.5 million under the Credit and the possibility of
financing additional investments of about US$5.2 million that would be consistent with project
objectives. Savings of about US$10.0 million had arisen because the lowest bid for the turnkey
contract for the rehabilitation/extension of the Chruoy Chang War (CCW) treatment plant was
well below estimates. The difference was due to: (i) a substantial downward revision in cost
estimates due to changes in technology, and civil works design; (ii) fierce competition among
bidders after the tendering had attracted the interest of leading international firms; and (iii) a
reduction in the risk premium sought by bidders following greater security in the country. Some
saving were also due to cheaper procurement of other equipment. In October 1999, the Board
approved a restructuring of the project on the following basis:

1) some US$5.2 million were reallocated to additional investments under the PPWSA component
as follows: (i) extension of the distribution network to the airport area; (ii) additional computer
equipment for the PPWSA accounting system; (iii) a reserve amount for the rehabilitation of the
treatment plant; and (iv) an additional allocation for pipes and ancillary equipment for possible
further extension of the distribution network. As part of the amendment to the DCA, the
reference to 85 km of pipes was deleted, allowing for an undetermined length of distribution pipes
in the service area.

2) the Government requested that the balance in savings, US$4.8 million, be applied to a pilot
sanitation program in Phnom Penh aimed at testing some of the findings emerging from the
sanitation studies under the Policy Component. These had confirmed: (i) the high receptivity to a
demand responsive approach where communities and households are provided the level of service
they want and are willing to pay for; and (ii) the interest of providers to invest in low cost
sanitation technologies. Thus, the new component was seen by both the Government and the
Bank as an important test and, if successful, as a model for duplicating the experience
country-wide under future operations. The DCA was amended in January 2000, providing for a
fourth component, sewerage infrastructure (base cost US$4.8 million), consisting of: (a)
designing, constructing and extending sewerage infrastructure on a pilot basis, including: (i)
installation of sewer pipes and house connections, (ii) installation of electrical and mechanical
equipment, and (iii) construction of sewerage treatment facilities; and (b) the provision of goods,
equipment, and technical services. PPWSA was made responsible for implementing this new
component, including system operation and maintenance and cost recovery from users, with the
Government remaining responsible for reimbursing the related portion of the Credit to IDA. Since
deriving the findings of the consultations and participatory process carried out under the
Sanitation Policy Study, the component' s objectives are also rated highly relevant to
implementing the Government's and the CAS' development strategies (as it turned out,



                                                 - 4 -

investments under this component were not implemented: see Section 4.2.4 below). The
restructuring led to a first postponement of the closing date to September 30, 2003.

Assessment of design

The design was highly satisfactory. It was well adapted to the situation prevailing in the
mid-1990s, with flexibility and gradualism built in to account for changes in circumstances.
Operational and financial targets were spelled out and spaced to match project implementation,
thus facilitating M&E. Covenants were limited in number but realistic. Since SWSA is a
deconcentrated department of MIME, a PA with IDA was not appropriate. Instead, targets were
identified in the minutes of negotiations to gradually bring the entity to performing as a
commercial enterprise. In view of the very low level of tariffs in Sihanoukville and the sensitive
nature of their revision, disbursement under this component was subject to raising average tariffs
to a level ensuring SWSA's financial viability. The policy component, introduced while
preparation was under way, was designed in a manner allowing for flexible implementation and
"learning by doing", given the many unknowns as to the receptivity to new ideas and best
practices in the sector. Nevertheless, the project was highly demanding on the borrower and the
implementing agencies, due to their lack of familiarity with Bank policies and procedures,
especially in procurement and contracting. However, the project was moderately complex, the
physical and financial targets having been clearly defined. No project management unit was
envisaged so as to promote capacity building within each implementing agency. A successful
launch workshop took place in November 1998, and a mid-term review was scheduled for end
2000.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory based on: (i) the consistency of objectives with the
Government's priorities for water services, poverty alleviation, and health, as well as with Bank
strategy; (ii) the Government's commitment to sector reforms and the motivation of the
management and staff of the two entities after the return of peace; and (iii) the detailed
preparation and design which took into account the special and still very difficult circumstances
faced by the country at the time.

Other factors accounted for a high quality at entry. First, during preparation, a close dialogue
with other donors, especially ADB, Japan, and France, had guaranteed coordination and
complementarity in investment and TA. Second, the TA extended after the peace accords to
PPWSA and other utilities had revealed a high level of interest and motivation among the staff,
allowing for carefully calibrating subsequent TA and training to the level and at the pace most
suitable to lead to results. Third, past interventions had demonstrated the need for flexibility in
design and implementation. It was clear that further strides in operational and financial
performance (e.g., towards commercialization) had to be made before embarking on policy
reforms, so as to incorporate lessons learned and ensure the workability of policy
recommendations in the local context. The Bank drew extensively from this past experience in
conducting its dialogue during preparation. For instance, such an approach greatly facilitated the
adoption by the Government of two key decisions prior to appraisal, the creation of PPWSA as an
autonomous entity and the creation of the CC to conduct the policy reform.


                                                  - 5 -

With respect to risks, the main financial risk rested with the ability of PPWSA, as the agency
responsible for the largest component around 85 percent of the project, to achieve the agreed
operational targets. This risk was mitigated by four factors: highly specialized TA; a twinning
arrangement with a consortium of Australian utilities; annual reviews of tariffs; and a pilot
partially program to finance the cost of connections for the poor. The risk of the Government not
being able or willing to undertake policy reforms was mitigated by the following: a close
collaboration underpinned by an agreement that policy-making would be based on a participatory
approach; flexibility in policy formulation and institutional proposals, based on learning by doing;
and several EDI (now WBI) seminars involving all stakeholders. One risk could not be mitigated,
however, i.e., a possible return to political instability or a deteriorating security situation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Outcome is rated highly satisfactory. The project has achieved all its major objectives, realizing
the benefits anticipated, with few exceptions. Although the SWSA component is rated
satisfactory, an overall rating of highly satisfactory is based on the fact that the PPWSA
component represented some 85 percent of the project in terms of costs/financing and provided
benefits to the whole population of Phnom Penh. There were four objectives:

First, in Phnom Penh, the coverage of drinking water has far exceeded appraisal targets. Virtually
the whole city, i.e., about 750,000, (excluding suburbs and peri-urban areas) has now access to
water 24 hours a day with a quality meeting international standards. In Sihanoukville, coverage
targets were also exceeded, with about 25 percent of the downtown area of the central district
now having access to a good quality water and with much greater regularity than before.

Second, the technical and financial performance of PPWSA has been remarkable and may be
considered as best practice, certainly among developing countries. Two facts illustrate the
turnaround in the utility: (i) by early 2004, UFW was down to 16-18 percent, from 57 percent at
appraisal; and (ii) as of June 2004, PPWSA had pre-paid over 40 percent of the sub-loan to the
Government. The assessment of SWSA's performance must necessarily be prudent because the
first full year of operation under the new conditions will be 2005 and data are preliminary. SWSA
has achieved some encouraging results during project execution, with some operational indicators
improving. However, further improvements will be slow to achieve, because parts of the
transmission lines and the network are very old, and also because of the limited capacity of the
utility to expand the network. The objective of restructuring SWSA into a sustainable
commercial enterprise was not fully achieved, because it has little flexibility in financial
management and is subject to political pressures and influences from the local authorities. As a
result, the objective of transforming SWSA as a "role model" for other small provincial utilities
was not achieved.

Third, the increase in availability of water has had a direct impact on promoting commercial and
industrial activities. In Phnom Penh, water is no longer a constraint for any activity, whether
domestic or commercial. In Sihanoukville, an increasing number of small enterprises, hotels and



                                                  - 6 -

restaurants are now connected to the network. However, should large industries settle in the area
in the near future, they would probably still have to develop their own sources.

Fourth, the Government has developed and adopted water and sanitation policies based on global
experience, including private sector participation in service delivery. Currently, donors, including
the Bank, are designing their interventions on the basis of the new policy framework. Surely, it
will take several years to assess the outcome in terms of benefits to consumers.

4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1 Expansion of water supply in Phnom Penh. Achievements are rated highly
satisfactory, with all sub-components rated in this category. Objectives were exceeded. Key
indicators for PPWSA for 1997-2004 are presented in Annex 1, Table 1.

The rehabilitation/extension of the Chruoy Chang War (CCW) treatment plant is rated
highly satisfactory. Together with the expansion of two other plants with Japanese and French
assistance, the rehabilitation/expansion of the CCW plant, to a level of 65,000 m3/day brought
total capacity to 235,000 m3/day, which will satisfy demand up to 2006-07. With a second phase
of 65,000 m3/day of the CCW plant planned for 2005-06, demand should be satisfied to about
2012-13. As noted in Section 3.4, after Credit effectiveness, revisions in costs were made to
allow for changes in technology and civil works design, bringing tendering under the turnkey
contract to about US$15 million, against US$23.7 million estimated at appraisal.

Delays were not excessive and were due mainly to four factors. First, at times heavy rains
prevented civil works to be carried out on schedule. Second, while civil works were completed
satisfactorily, the contractor had difficulty in managing the procurement of the electro-mechanical
equipment. Third, shipments of goods from overseas were sometimes subject to restrictions.
Finally, some equipment, mainly pipes supplied by sub-contractors overseas, was of poor quality
requiring replacement of many orders. The consultant responsible for construction supervision
reacted quickly to the latter situations by taking prompt corrective actions, such as conducting
quality tests at production sites outside Cambodia. Notwithstanding the delays, the timely actions
by the consultant led to improved performance by the contractor and the end product is of very
high quality. The performance of the supervision consultant was highly satisfactory throughout.
The plant started operating in March 2002. In 2004, PPWSA was expected to produce 180,000
m3/day (or 77 percent of capacity), with sales amounting to 150,000 m3 (on the basis of a UFW
of 16.66 percent).

Rehabilitation of the CCW plant involved the resettlement of some 20 families. After discussions
with the community, PPWSA and the local authorities, the families chose a cash grant to resettle
in another area. One year after resettlement, the families were interviewed and confirmed that they
were fully satisfied with their new habitat.

Distribution network and connections. This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory.
Upon closing of the Credit, this component had become the largest in terms of IDA funds
disbursed, some US$11.8 million. In total, 586 km of pipes were laid against 85 km estimated at



                                                  - 7 -

appraisal. The reallocation and the ability of PPWSA to mobilize resources to expand the
network and install connections were key in dramatically reversing the financial position of
PPWSA (see below). At the end of 2003, PPWSA had 105,777 connections, exceeding the
appraisal target of 90,397 by 17 percent. On the basis of 7 members per household, some
750,000 now have access to piped water 24 hours a day with a water quality meeting
international standards. Given the success of this component in expanding service, PPWSA will
have to suspend the extension of the network in 2006-07, unless capacity is raised to 300,000
m3/day with the second phase of the CCW treatment plant.

The pilot program targeted to the poor for financing domestic connections is rated highly
satisfactory. The scheme, designed as a revolving fund, was meant to help the poor connect to
the network. The program was slow to start due to insufficient information on potential
beneficiaries, initial skepticism on the part of PPWSA and, as a corollary, an insufficiently
pro-active dissemination campaign. With the assistance of NGOs, PPWSA assumed a more
active role in 2001, and the number of connections rose rapidly thereafter to reach a total of 6,708
by end 2003. The program has proved extremely successful and popular among the low-income
groups. Under the successor project, the program is being considerably extended to reach 30
percent of the estimated low-income population of 430,000 living in the suburban and peri-urban
areas of Phnom Penh.

The operational and financial performance of PPWSA is rated highly satisfactory. The
operational and financial performance of PPWSA changed dramatically over the implementation
period. At appraisal, the UFW ratio, at 57 percent, was one of the highest in Asia. At first,
progress was limited, with UFW declining to 35.5 percent in 2000, and only with an increase in
tariffs in January 2001 was PPWSA able to maintain adequate revenues. Dramatic progress took
place starting during 2001, with UFW declining consistently to reach 17 percent in 2003, with
operating revenues improving correspondingly. This is to be compared to an appraisal estimate of
UFW of 40 percent for 2003. PPWSA's personnel has acquired the know-how to monitor UFW
very tightly inter alia through a fully computerized system (see below). The experience of
PPWSA in reaching such an operational performance level may be considered best practice in the
EAP region.

Thanks to its progress in reducing UFW associated with the aggressive increase in the number of
connections that improved the sales, PPWSA was able to avoid raising tariffs to the extent
projected in 1997. Tariffs were raised only twice, in June 1997 before appraisal, and in January
2001. PPWSA succeeded in gradually adopting the recommendations of the Water Supply Policy
Study, i.e., a reduced dispersion of rates within each category and between categories. As a
result, the average nominal tariff increased moderately from Riels 762 in 1997 to 987 per m3 in
2003 (corresponding to US$0.26 and US$0.25, respectively), well below the level of Riels 1,118
estimated at appraisal to be required in 2003. Since changes in tariffs require Government's
approval, PPWSA acted in a very responsible and effective way in fine-tuning its UFW and tariff
policies. The PA provided for four financial covenants. All were met on time, except for one
delayed by only one year. Annual audits of financial statements were received on time by the
Bank, with no material issues raised by the external auditors. The operational and financial
performance of PPWSA was considerably enhanced with the installation of a high-performance



                                                  - 8 -

management information system (MIS) in 2002.

The dramatic improvement in the financial situation of PPWSA is illustrated by the following. By
2002, the cash position of PPWSA had become so strong that in September 2002 the entity
requested the Government to pre-pay reimbursements of the principal under the sub-loan. Two
such pre-payments were made in 2003, one for Riels 28.4 billion in March and one for Riels 4.5
billion in September; and a third payment was made in June 2004, for Riels 4.5 billion, for a total
of Riels 37.4 billion, out of a total principal disbursed by the Bank of Riels 91.1 billion, or about
41 percent. In addition, PPWSA prepaid interest payments amounting to Riels 4.4 billion.
The twinning arrangement is rated highly satisfactory. At the time of preparation, the
Australian Government (AusAid) agreed to provide US$250,000 in grant funds to finance a
twinning arrangement between an Australian water utility to be selected under Bank guidelines
and PPWSA, under TORs agreed by the Bank. A consortium of two utilities was selected with
the main objective of improving the institutional effectiveness of PPWSA. The experience proved
extremely valuable in developing a greater awareness among PPWSA' staff of the need to bring
integrated solutions to identified problems.

4.2.2 Expansion of water supply in Sihanoukville. This component is rated satisfactory.
Key indicators for SWSA for 1997-2004 are presented in Annex 1, Table 2.

Construction works. This sub-component is rated satisfactory. SWSA' s personnel
demonstrated excellent performance in achieving the physical objectives of the component: the
volume of water available and of treated water was raised as estimated at appraisal. Total capacity
was raised from about 2,000 m3/day to 6,000 m3/day, including three new wells having an
effective capacity of 2,000 m3/day. For the first quarter of 2004, production of clear water
amounted to 360,000 m3, corresponding to an effective use of capacity of about 4,400 m3/day,
but sales amounted to only 265,000 m3 due to a UFW of 26.3 percent. 2005 should be the first
year of normal operation since the system has stabilized, with an effective use of capacity of
4,000-5,000 m3/day. Improvement in the distribution system did not require the construction of a
new high-level reservoir as expected at appraisal, because the existing reservoirs, both in high
elevations, could be rehabilitated satisfactorily. The system was extended from 32 km to 52 km
and the number of connections increased from 921 at appraisal to 2,658 at closing of the Credit in
March 2004, a 14 percent increase over the SAR target for end 2003. With an average of 7
persons per connection, the number of people served is over 18,000, or about 25 percent of the
present population of the downtown area of the central district of Sihanoukville, against 13
percent in 1997. SWSA has been unable to reduce its UFW substantially since 1997, because the
transmission lines are about 60 years old. UFW has fluctuated between 25 and 30 percent,
reaching 26.3 percent in the first quarter of 2004. It is expected to decrease only slightly over the
next few years on account of the new distribution lines, then it may rise again.

Despite the very good technical performance of SWSA, construction was considerably delayed,
for reasons beyond its control. First, the design stage took longer than expected because basic
data, such as topographic surveys, city maps, and other baseline information were poor and scanty
due to destruction of many city records during past conflicts. To that extent, the delay cannot be
blamed on any particular actor since the technical appraisal was largely based on feasibility studies



                                                   - 9 -

carried out in the mid-1990s, when the security situation in and around Sihanoukville had not
been fully restored. Second, MIME and the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF) were
inexperienced in procurement and contract negotiations, causing long delays in approval and
processing. Third, the disbursement condition under the DCA was only fulfilled in June 2000,
when the Government agreed to an increase in tariffs of about 11, 20 and 12 percent for the three
consumption blocks. Fourth, delays were also due to constraints on logistics at the port, a factor
also beyond SWSA' s control. Because of these delays, the sub-component is not rated highly
satisfactory. Despite a delay of over three years, quality of the works is considered very good and
the performance of the supervision consultant was highly satisfactory. Time required to test the
water facilities and to complete the installation of connections was one of the reasons for
extending the closing date from September 2003, to December 31, 2003, (second extension), and
again to March 31, 2004, (third and final extension).

TA to MIME and SWSA is rated satisfactory. The objective was to help SWSA move to an
entity performing under commercial standards and to test the feasibility of replicating such an
outcome in other secondary towns under a subsequent operation. TA was provided in three
areas: (i) project preparation and implementation, where support in planning, management, and
engineering was needed on a day-to-day basis, given SWSA's inexperience with Bank-financed
projects; (ii) procurement, socio-economic surveys to establish the customer base and the level of
effective demand for water services, and studies on long-term water sources; and (iii) accounting
and information technology. In addition, the main contractor provided extensive hands-on training
in O&M to SWSA' staff. Since project completion was much delayed, a full assessment of
SWSA's performance under the new operational conditions is not yet possible. However,
preliminary results indicate progress in operational performance: (i) the connection target was
achieved, as noted already; (ii) UFW performance improved slightly, but further progress will be
limited due to aging of some transmission lines; and (iii) collection efficiency remained well over
90 percent.

As a deconcentrated department of a ministry, SWSA has little authority over many areas
affecting its operations and finances. As such, there has been little progress in providing greater
financial autonomy to ensure long-term sustainability beyond the investments of the present
project. This is illustrated in the area of tariff setting, where the decision belongs to MIME and
the Governor of the province, and therefore political considerations inevitably prevail. Since
appraisal, tariffs were raised only twice in June 2000 and in July 2004. For the first quarter of
2004, the average tariff stood at Riels 1,332.4 per m3 or US$0.33. Resistance by the authorities
to tariff adjustment led to an average tariff consistently below the level required to improve the
long-term financial position of SWSA in a sustainable manner. As a result, the operating ratio
remained substantially above the level agreed at negotiations or the SAR targets, although some
improvement was achieved during project implementation. Financial performance was also short
of expectations with respect to the average collection period that remained well below the target
of 60 days as SWSA has little power to enforce payment of water bills by the public
administration, at national and provincial levels.

In sum, although SWSA' s financial situation has stabilized thanks to improved operational
performance, increases in the number of connections, and increases in tariffs, the conditions



                                                   - 10 -

required for SWSA to develop into a commercial enterprise could not be fully met as long as it
remains an administrative body dependent on MIME. In addition, SWSA is constantly subject to
the vagaries of local interests and influences. Despite insistence on the part of the Bank
throughout project execution, the Government failed to relax the institutional and operational
constraints under which SWSA operated, thus preventing its rising to the challenge of achieving
results normally expected from commercial enterprises.

4.2.3 Development of a water supply and sanitation policy. Achievement is rated highly
satisfactory.

With the assistance of consultants, the CC was quick to launch the preparation of a long-term
policy to develop an efficient and cost-effective national water supply and sanitation sector and to
rationalize the institutional framework. Draft policy frameworks covering urban water and
sanitation were discussed at a WBI-sponsored seminar in April 1999. A Water Sector Policy
Letter was sent to the Bank in December 1999, one year ahead of the date required in the DCA,
and a National Policy on Water Supply was approved by the Government in June 2000. The
policy is based on the key features of global experiences, i.e., a demand-based approach, private
sector participation and cost recovery. With regard to urban sanitation, one immediate outcome
of the draft policy framework was the decision by the Government in April 1999, to transfer
responsibility for sewerage to MIME, thereby greatly simplifying the organization of the sector.
In February 2003, the National Policy for Urban Sanitation was approved, based on the following
principles: a demand-responsive approach, appropriate technologies, private sector and
community participation, coverage of O&M costs, and tariff levels that are fair and tied to users'
willingness to pay.

To demonstrate its commitment to its new vision for the sector, in 2000 the Government
requested a successor project from the Bank to implement the new policies in provincial towns.
This led to the active preparation of the Provincial and Peri-urban Water and Sanitation Project in
parallel with the execution of the Urban Water Supply Project. The successor project, approved
by the Board in April 2003 (Cr. 3746-KH), greatly benefited, in concept and design, from the
experiences garnered from the first project. With the support of the Bank/UNDP Water and
Sanitation Program, between 1999-03 the Government also developed a rural water supply and
sanitation policy based on the following: a demand-responsive approach, private sector and
community participation, promotion of hygiene, sustainable management of the water
environment, and appropriate incentives and subsidies for the communities with limited ability to
pay.

Two factors led the Government and the Bank to undertake a study of a regulatory framework for
water and sanitation and the drafting of a regulatory law for the sector. First, substantial savings
under the policy component had materialized as early as 1999, as a result of the Government's use
of individual consultants rather than consulting firms as envisaged at appraisal, thereby freeing
funds for other priority studies in policy areas. Second, the request by the Government for a
successor project argued for speeding up the preparation of a regulatory framework and
accompanying legislation. Although not anticipated at appraisal, this output fell logically under
the medium-to-long-term objectives of the policy component. A consulting firm, specialized in



                                                 - 11 -

utility regulation, submitted its final report in November 2001, and drafted a regulatory law. The
latter is still under review by the Cambodian administration and is expected to be finalized under
the new project.

4.2.4 Sewerage infrastructure. This component is not rated.

As indicated under Section 3.4, this pilot component was added in late 1999 to test the
recommendations of the Urban Sanitation Policy study. The location agreed by MPP, MOEF,
and the Bank was the district of Toul Kork in Phnom Penh, an area well known to PPSWA.
Based on the policy study, two key principles were retained: low-cost and willingness to pay.
Thus, the concept and design were based on a mix of public and "low-cost" sewers, technology
preferences and willingness to pay expressed by the targeted population through surveys, and a
tariff level covering all of PPWSA's O&M expenses and, possibly, a small portion of the
investment costs. The design provided for the construction of a sewage treatment plant and
related equipment, installation of 18.2 km of public sewers and 14,167 communal connections.
Implementation of the component was interrupted in mid 2002, with the appointment of a new
Governor of Phnom Penh, following local elections in February 2002. While the nature and
location of the component had been agreed with the previous city administration, MOEF, and
PPWSA, protracted discussions took place between the Bank and officials of the new city
administration regarding two issues. The new Governor rejected the modalities for cost recovery
and the choice of Toul Kork. He proposed instead a section of the downtown area of Phnom
Penh for which other and new priority infrastructure investments were envisaged, namely
improvements in drainage and roads to cope with the severe flooding and waterlogging occurring
during the rainy season.

Then two obstacles emerged to pursuing implementation of the component. First, bids had been
received for Toul Kork, and there was no time before Credit closing to complete preparation and
construction in another area of the city. Second, a solution to the drainage problems in the
downtown area of the city was a radically different project. In June 2002, the Bank recognized
the need for a proper sequencing of investments and decided to terminate further work on the
pilot program. Instead, it agreed to redirect efforts towards preparing a broader program
covering drainage, sewerage, and road improvements for the same downtown area of the city to
be financed under the successor project. However, this in turn was dropped at the December
2002 Decision Meeting of the successor project for lack of IDA funds. Most of the unused funds
under the component were reallocated to further extend the water supply distribution networks
under the PPWSA and SWSA components. Although the component was dropped, most of the
preparatory work - feasibility studies, design, and bidding documents - retains its value. Two
other positive outcomes - though modest - are the know-how in sanitation acquired by PPWSA
staff and the exposure of the municipality of Phnom Penh to Bank policies and operations in the
water and sanitation sector.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

At appraisal, the ERR for the PPWSA component was estimated at 18.8 percent, based on
investments to be financed under the project. A rate of return was recalculated at completion in
May 2004, on the basis of all investments undertaken by PPWSA since appraisal, including those


                                                  - 12 -

financed under grant by bilateral sources under tied aid. Some of these capital investments were
very large. Since all PPWSA's operational and financial data are aggregated, it was not possible
to recalculate a rate of return solely on the basis of the IDA project. Therefore, recalculated rates
are necessarily approximate. The result was an ERR of 8 percent. However, if all investments
financed under tied aid are estimated, under reasonable assumptions, to have been procured under
ICB, the EER rises to 12 percent, a rate that can be considered as proxy for the IDA project. For
the SWSA component, the ERR at appraisal was estimated at 10.1 percent. The recalculated rate
is 11 percent. SWSA did not undertake projects financed from other sources after appraisal. The
overall ERR was estimated at 17.2 percent at appraisal, the recalculated rate is 8 percent, and the
rate adjusted for ICB procurement, as noted above, is 12 percent, as the PPWSA component
represented some 85 percent of the project in terms of costs/financing and benefits provided.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

For the PPWSA component, the FRR was estimated at 13.6 percent at appraisal. The recalculated
rate is 6 percent, and the adjusted rate, on the basis of ICB procurement, is 10 percent. The FRR
for the SWSA component was estimated at 11.2 percent at appraisal. The recalculated rate is
negative, because SWSA was unable, as already noted, to generate enough operating revenue due
to its lack of autonomy and its limited capacity to extend its distribution network to sell more
water.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


The Institutional Development Impact (IDI) for the project as a whole is rated substantial.
However, a clear distinction must be made between the various entities involved.

The rating is high for the PPWSA, which has become a financially viable and strong water utility,
with dramatic improvements in organization, profitability, and operational performance. PPWSA
has undergone fundamental changes, including company culture. It has moved from an
inward-looking utility plagued by operational problems to an outward-looking entity, familiar with
global developments and best practices and confident in its dealings with bilateral and multilateral
financial institutions as well as with international contractors and suppliers. On the domestic
market, it has gained the respect of the Government, as well as of public and private users. In
South-East Asia, it is regarded as a model and is solicited for sharing its experience at seminars
and other professional events. Specific IDI developments were achieved in the following areas:
effective management and control of production and distribution facilities; financial information
and accounting data available in real time; computerization generalized throughout the entity; and
human resource development through in-house and overseas training. PPWSA financed, with its
own resources, a training center set up on its premises for its staff and open to personnel from
other water utilities. The management team is fully aware that the future of the entity depends on
its ability to strengthen middle management and attract highly qualified young staff. In that
connection, its compensation policy is to reach levels comparable to those of the private sector
within a few years.

The rating is substantial for the SWSA. The entity's management has increased its capacity in
operational matters, mainly in planning and coordinating different phases in project


                                                 - 13 -

implementation, and in day-to-day operations. The performance level of the workforce in O&M
was raised thanks to the training provided by the main contractor and other individual consultants.
However, the SWSA was hardly exposed to procurement and contracting matters and to financial
issues.

The rating for MIME is modest. The main IDI of the project was limited to developing
knowledge of procurement, financial management, and contract negotiations among UPWS' staff.
The policy component exposed several high officials of MIME and of other ministries to global
experiences and best practices, including on regulatory matters, but little capacity was built in
terms of ability to generate and produce policy-oriented documents in a timely manner. So far the
internal discussions and reviews of the draft Regulatory Law have raised a greater awareness of
sector issues in a competitive environment among Government officials and further processing of
the draft law should similarly expose parliamentarians.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


Two factors substantially affected the outcome of the project in a positive manner. First,
intensive inputs from the Bank and a constant dialogue with the borrower guaranteed close
scrutiny of progress, but, at the same time, permitted the Bank team to react swiftly and flexibly
to problems. Second, the performance of the supervision consultant was exemplary in terms of
professional input, judicious advice, quick reaction and training. Two factors negatively impacted
project execution, one substantially, the other partially. Past conflicts had a substantially
adverse effect on the start of project implementation in Sihanoukville, causing a serious delay in
the delivery of project benefits to the population. While the deficient quality of some equipment
procured abroad caused delays in implementing the PPWSA component, these were kept
manageable thanks to the vigilance of and the rapid corrective measures taken by the supervision
consultant.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


The failure of the Government to provide greater autonomy to the SWSA substantially affected
SWSA's performance negatively. The situation was exacerbated by MIME's and MOEF's heavy
administrative procedures and inexperience in procurement and contract negotiations. The
change of heart of MPP with respect to the nature and location of the pilot sanitation program
partially affected the project, in that it created uncertainty with respect to the relative investment
priorities in the eyes of the Government and the municipality and, as a result, caused delays.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:


Strong commitment and effective management substantially affected the outcome of the
PPWSA component. The PPWSA showed creativity and a readiness to adopt a new culture, new
methods of working, and new tools, such as state-of-the-art IT. This played a key role in leading
the PPWSA to exceed all SAR expectations and targets. The performance of the PPWSA has led
to an unintended benefit by creating a positive image, in the country and abroad, of what can be
achieved in the water sector.


                                                     - 14 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

Final costs of the project are estimated at US$35.3 million against an appraisal estimate of
US$41.6 million, or about a 15 percent saving. However, costs borne by the Government and the
PPWSA are difficult to fully quantify. Disbursements by IDA amounted to US$30.1 million,
against US$30.9 estimated at appraisal, or 97.4 percent. The structure of costs and financing is
substantially different from what was envisioned at appraisal due to the large savings on the
turnkey contract. The closing date of the Credit was extended three times, for a total of 15
months after the original date, a postponement justified by the emphasis on serving as many areas
as possible.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The sustainability of the overall project is rated highly likely, on the basis of the rating for the
PPWSA component. Sustainability of the PPWSA component is rated highly likely. All
conditions have been met for PPWSA to maintain the benefits achieved over the economic life of
the project. It has developed the capacity to maintain the level of service presently available and
has the means of extending coverage to the suburbs and peri-urban areas of the city. Its financial
position permits it to borrow from international financial institutions under non-concessional loans
and service the debt, and, if it were not for the country risk, it could even borrow from
commercial banks. Its human resource and compensation policies are gradually converging to
those prevailing in the private sector. The entity and its management have gained an indisputable
credibility with the Government, the municipality and the population.

Although there is a high commitment on the part of SWSA's management to maintain the benefits
achieved so far, their sustainability over the economic life of the project is unlikely for the
following reasons. First, there is no realistic prospect of a change in status of SWSA. In addition
to a lack in decision-making, SWSA is unable to resist political and/or administrative pressures or
decisions impacting negatively on its operations. Second, and for the same reason, SWSA' staff
does not have the skills, incentives, and culture required to move to a more independent
management of the entity. Third, SWSA is unable to adopt the necessary measures to protect the
catchment area of the lake from increased encroachment from public and private buildings, whose
construction is often authorized by the central or provincial authorities. This is all the more
regrettable since according to past records, the lake and its surrounding area were property of
SWSA before the Khmer Rouge era. This situation has deteriorated rapidly over the recent past,
despite numerous warnings from the Bank, and poses a serious threat to the expansion of service
and to the welfare of the population. Moreover, pollution of the source is bound to increase.
Fourth, SWSA is facing a serious imbalance in its operations in that it does not have the financial
resources to install connections at a sufficiently rapid pace (only 50 connections per year) to
match its effective capacity and therefore raise its operating revenues by selling more water.

The sustainability of the policy component is rated likely. The benefits derived from the new
policies have hardly had a chance to materialize by Credit closing, as their implementation only



                                                 - 15 -

started with the successor project. Some bilateral donors are presently studying the new policies
to assess their impact on the concept and design of possible new operations. A first and key test
of their successful application in urban centers will depend on the response of stakeholders
associated with the successor project. The Government's commitment is genuine, if only because
it has to rely on private sector participation to make country-wide progress in the water sector
due to its lack of financial resources. However, until a satisfactory regulatory law is adopted, it
has little capacity to set up and enforce a framework that would guarantee a generalized
application of the policies. Moreover, a prerequisite for progress will be for the Government and
donors to assess the extent to which institutional formulae involving the private sector can
gradually replace deconcentrated departments of the central administration, with the attendant
risks and heavy demands in terms of training and institutional set-up. The rating of likely is based
on two considerations: (i) the Bank is actively engaged with the authorities on the draft law; and
(ii) donors, including the Bank, have indicated their readiness to assist in establishing the
regulatory body once the law is promulgated.

6.1.4 Sustainability of the pilot sanitation program is not rated.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

All the transition arrangements for regular operation of the PPWSA's component are in place,
with all project activities integrated into overall operations. All technical, financial, commercial
and institutional requirements are functioning normally. In addition, PPWSA is currently
implementing a component of the Bank-financed successor project and soon will expand its
production facilities. At the present time, the utility is focusing on enhancing the quality and skills
of its human resource base so as to guarantee long-term sustainability of quality service and
financial viability. Performance indicators will increasingly emphasize this aspect. It is highly
desirable that the Bank participate in the financing of the forthcoming production investments to
further consolidate the entity. It is also recommended that OED conduct an impact evaluation by
2010.

In the case of Sihanoukville, short-term transition arrangements for regular operation are in place.
However, several factors may constrain long-term normal operation of the project. To expand
service delivery to a wider segment of the population and support regional development, the most
pressing needs are: construction of additional wells (until larger sources are identified),
replacement of the old transmission lines, extension of the network, and strengthening of O&M
capacity. On the basis of SWSA's record under the project, it would be desirable for the Bank to
include a component covering these items as part of a possible future project for the expansion of
capacity in Phnom Penh. Alternatively, should savings under the present successor project
become available, some funds could be reallocated to help SWSA consolidate its operational
performance and generate more revenues.

Under the policy component, the ongoing dialogue on the draft regulatory law allows for
continued evaluation of expected benefits resulting from implementation of the new policies. The
impact evaluation by OED recommended above should extend to progress in the water sector
country-wide.



                                                  - 16 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory. The project was fully consistent with the
Government's First Socio-economic Development Plan (1996-2000), and with the Bank' s 1995
and 1997 CAS. It was well coordinated with ADB, which was preparing a water distribution
project in Phnom Penh at the time. EDI (now WBI) had a program to build stakeholders
commitment to institutional reform and policy changes, including two seminars on best practices.
The Bank team emphasized the fact that improvement in management and operational practices
must be in place ab initio to ensure that investments are managed according to commercial
practices. This persuaded Cambodian officials to undertake fundamental changes in managing the
sector and led to a turning point in concept and design by adding the policy component (absent at
the identification stage) and by strengthening support for capacity building in operational and
financial matters, including via the twinning arrangement in favor of PPWSA. As a result,
processing of the project was extended by some six months to prepare the policy component in
detail, jointly with the authorities and the utilities. However, this raised the quality of preparation
and of appraisal substantially.

7.2 Supervision:


Supervision performance is rated highly satisfactory. Supervision was intensive and carried out
by the same team, virtually through the closing of the Credit. Continuity was one of the major
reasons for success. Reporting was accurate, comprehensive and expeditious. The Bank showed
flexibility, innovation and responsiveness when issues arose, such as in the cases of substitution of
districts or network extension for distribution, or the pilot sanitation program. On the technical
side, the Bank was diligent in approving change orders to contracts and was attentive to
procurement issues and quality standards, as demonstrated by its firmness when some equipment
did not meet required quality standards. On the financial side, support and training were provided
on a continuous basis, with the two entities currently using the financial model developed with the
assistance of the Bank. Long-term vision was also demonstrated by broadening and deepening
the policy dialogue, notably by launching a successor project based on the main tenets of the
newly formulated policies and a regulatory law.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Overall performance is rated highly satisfactory. The rating is based on three major outcomes in
terms of impact on sector development. First, the Bank's involvement led to a complete
turnaround of the sector in a few years, transforming it from a state of emergency rehabilitation to
a state of structured development gradually meeting the needs of the population. Second, the
Bank' s input led the Government and other actors to hold a new and very different vision for the
development of the sector. The project and the sector have acquired high visibility in the
administration, in the private sector and in the public at large. Third, the Bank had an enormous
impact in terms of exposure of the authorities and sector to global experience and practices and to
international actors in water and sanitation. Success is largely due to the TA strategy followed by
the Bank team, i.e., built on strong partnership and trust. The project was taken to the Board as


                                                   - 17 -

essentially a rehabilitation project in a post-conflict situation. At the time, the policy and
institutional capacity building component left much room for further dialogue. On the advice of
the Bank, the Government agreed to implement this component by procuring experienced
individual consultants, rather than a firm. This made an enormous difference in terms of quality of
advice and trust. It enabled the Bank team to influence the way savings under this component
were to be utilized, namely in expanding the scope of policy studies and building on their findings.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


Performance is rated satisfactory. The Government showed commitment to the project' s
objectives and articulated well its priorities in collaboration with the Bank and ADB. Although
hardly familiar with the project cycle, the authorities and the entities concerned were receptive to
advice and arguments with respect to project concept and design (e.g., the change in status of
PPWSA). After EDI had held a seminar on policy matters, the Government agreed to prepare a
Letter of Sector Objectives prior to negotiations and participated actively with the two utilities in
the preparation of the policy component. However, at times the lack of familiarity with Bank
policies and procedures led the authorities to underestimate the medium-term implications of
some of their undertakings. This was certainly the case regarding the commitment expressed at
negotiations to create conditions conducive to SWSA functioning as a commercial entity. The
officials close to the project underestimated the institutional, bureaucratic and political resistance
to such a move. In contrast, and, as expected, PPWSA was vividly conscious of the demanding
agenda it was facing. It reacted rapidly by adopting on its own not only actions related directly to
project preparation but also actions bearing on its ongoing operations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Performance is rated satisfactory. Macro-economic policies did not affect project execution and
the 1998 Asian crisis had a limited impact on prices. Although commitment remained strong, the
capacity to deliver decisions was slow due to two institutional factors. The remnants of a
command economy combined with weak administrative capacity caused delays, both at the central
and the technical levels, a situation exacerbated by the unfamiliarity with Bank policies and
procedures. Second, despite commitment of all officials closely associated with the project,
political considerations prevailed when vested interests were at stake. The most blatant example
was the inaction exhibited by the authorities to circumscribe construction in the catchment area of
the lake in Sihanoukville. Similarly, in the case of SWSA, the Government was unable to develop
a consensus to provide more flexibility in operational and financial matters. An opportunity may
have been missed - or at least delayed - to test the practicality of an alternative to the present
unsatisfactory situation in provincial towns. On balance, however, and taking into account the
demands of the project in the still difficult circumstances of Cambodia, implementation
performance was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

There were three implementing agencies: the Water and Sanitation Coordination Committee (CC)
for the policy component, PPWSA for the Phnom Penh component, and MIME/SWSA for the



                                                  - 18 -

Sihanoukville component.

The performance of the CC is rated satisfactory. The CC and the officials associated with the
policy studies showed interest in learning from global experience and in developing policy
statements. They participated actively in the EDI seminars and in field missions and were eager to
test new ideas, such as for the successor project or the pilot sanitation program. They
demonstrated diligence in seeking approval of the new policies at the different administrative
layers, sometimes in the face of resistance and delays. MIME is currently reviewing comments
received from the Bank on the draft regulatory law for the sector.

PPWSA's performance is rated highly satisfactory. From the very beginning, PPWSA' s
management and staff showed great interest and exceptional commitment. Beyond the immediate
requirements for successful project implementation, PPWSA actively sought to learn from best
practices. To achieve this goal, it made a critical decision early on to gradually replace its older
personnel with younger, more learned, and more energetic staff who seized the opportunity to
enhance their skills. PPWSA developed the needed operational and financial tools to monitor
project execution and compliance with Credit covenants. It exercised effective control over TA
services and collaborated closely with the supervision consultant. All reports and audits were
submitted on time. The rating is also based on the performance achieved by PPWSA in operation
and finances, as described above. As already noted, the main challenge facing PPWSA at the
present time is its capacity to retain and attract high-caliber motivated young staff.

The performance of MIME/SWSA is rated satisfactory. Most of the TA provided to the SWSA
component was channelled directly to the utility, and in some cases via MIME. SWSA was
committed to the project, but often was constrained in its relations with the contractor and the
supervision consultant by its lack of autonomy. Inevitably, sometimes this gave rise to
disagreements among parties, misunderstandings and delays. It would be misleading and
incorrect, however, to entirely attribute the many shortcomings in efficacy and efficiency to
MIME as an implementing agency per se. First, given its limited knowledge and experience, it
was too much to expect UPWS (now DPWS) of MIME to provide substantial support to SWSA
in operational and financial matters. Second, the room for MIME to maneuver is very limited in
matters of policies. In key areas, such as tariff setting, its role is limited to make proposals to the
political authorities at the central and provincial levels. Also, in matters such as providing more
flexibility to SWSA or taking measures to protect the catchment area in Sihanoukville, MIME has
neither the power nor the influence to force a desirable outcome.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall performance is rated satisfactory. The Government and PPWSA have taken courageous
decisions in confronting the huge problems plaguing the sector in the first half of the 1990s. At
that time, the water system in Phnom Penh was near total collapse, the population relying to a
large extent on underground tanks built by the Khmer Rouge. Despite its institutional and
administrative weaknesses, Cambodia has demonstrated a commitment and willingness to make
progress - even if gradual - towards developing sustainable and cost-effective water systems with
direct impact on poverty reduction and health.



                                                  - 19 -

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Lessons from the project.

l More efforts should have been expended at preparation to identify a solution to SWSA's lack
   of autonomy. It is not evident that a solution similar to that adopted for PPWSA was feasible
   because the legal status of SWSA was very different. Global experience shows that it is easier
   to transform a municipal department into a financially autonomous entity (i.e., the "rgie" in
   the French system) than to corporatize ministerial departments. The Bank may have erred in
   repeatedly requesting autonomy without exploring other more realistic avenues, such as
   simple management contracts.

l Disappointed by the small amount of flexibility enjoyed by SWSA, during the preparation of
   the successor project in 2000 the Bank decided not to include in the latter urban water
   systems without sufficient autonomy, and therefore to discontinue its involvement in
   Sihanoukville. In hindsight, the Bank's exit was probably premature and, as implementation
   progressed after 2000, it became increasingly clear that this had been a mistake. As indicated
   in Section 6, long-term sustainability of benefits in Sihanoukville is unlikely, unless SWSA
   continues to be supported by the Bank and other donors. There are compelling reasons for
   such a course: the demand for water is likely to grow at a rapid pace; the present imbalance
   between production and distribution must be redressed if the system is to extend services to
   the population, particularly to the poor, and improve its financial performance; extension of
   the network is also dependent on an urgent rehabilitation of the transmission lines; and, last
   but not least, the urgent need to protect the catchment area of the lake. In the present
   circumstances, only the presence of donors appears able to help protect and consolidate what
   has been achieved and ensure the sound development of services in the city.

l PPWSA' s leadership was to a very large extent the driving force behind the whole project, as
   it created a dynamic benefiting all stakeholders. It also had a powerful demonstration effect.

l Project implementation would have benefited, if, before start of project execution, key
   personnel from the central and technical ministries had been provided assistance and training
   in Bank policies and procedures. It would have reduced delays. To the extent possible, this
   type of assistance should be on a grant basis.

l The experiences accumulated from the project plead for a continued Bank's presence in the
   water and sanitation sector in Cambodia to consolidate what was achieved and to expand
   much needed services to a very poor population.

8.2 Lessons of general applicability.

l Commitment and ownership are the main factors for success, whether at the Government or
   implementing agency level.

l Continuity in the Bank team is critical for the success of a project. Often, the Bank does not
   pay sufficient attention to this.


                                               - 20 -

l A well-thought out TA strategy developed with the borrower may be a key ingredient for
    success.

l In countries with very weak institutional capacity, Government officials involved in a project
    and implementation agencies depend heavily on Bank support, whether in the form of
    conditionality, covenants or advice, to overcome bureaucratic apathy and to resist political
    influence. In the case of this project, all officials interviewed welcomed Bank conditionality
    and its "protection".

l WBI may have a considerable impact in raising awareness on policy issues and best practices,
    provided it is sustained and well coordinated with the Bank team during preparation and
    execution.

l Twinning arrangements may be valuable tools in strengthening project entities. The
    arrangement must take place as much as possible in parallel with project preparation and be
    based on TORs prepared by the Bank.

l The Bank should disseminate the success achieved by PPWSA by recommending/sponsoring
    workshops in other parts of the world, and certainly in South-East Asia. The performance of
    PPWSA may be considered as best practice.

8.3 Lessons for Cambodia.

l Given the success of WBI seminars in raising awareness of best practices, the authorities
    should request the Bank for similar seminars on regulatory matters as part of the finalization
    of the Regulatory Law.

l The Government and PPWSA should make every effort to disseminate the findings, outcomes
    and lessons of the project, both within Cambodia and abroad.

l The Government should make every effort possible to raise the standards of the personnel in
    the central ministries responsible for dealing with multilateral and bilateral assistance so as to
    raise the absorptive capacity of the country.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The borrower and implementing agencies did not have any comments.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information



                                                  - 21 -

- 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Improve drinking water coverage, quality and Not available.                            The population of Phnom Penh (excluding
access in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville.                                                suburbs and peri-urban areas), i.e., some
                                                                                       750,000, has access to water 24 hours a day
                                                                                       with a quality meetings international
                                                                                       standards. In Sihanoukville, 25 percent of
                                                                                       the downtown area of the central district has
                                                                                       access to a water of good quality for about 22
                                                                                       hours a day on average.
Improve the performance of the utilities.     Not available.                           The operational and financial performance of
                                                                                       PPWSA has exceeded all the targets
                                                                                       estimated at appraisal (see below). The
                                                                                       performance of PPWSA can be considered
                                                                                       as best practice. A preliminary assessment
                                                                                       of SWSA indicated that SWSA has achieved
                                                                                       a solid operational performance, but its
                                                                                       financial performance is deficient due to its
                                                                                       status of deconcentrated department of
                                                                                       MIME.
Increase availability of water for commercial Not available.                           There is non constraint on availability of water
and industrial use.                                                                    in Phnom Penh for commercial or industrial
                                                                                       use. In Sihanoukville, an increasing number
                                                                                       of small enterprises, hotels and restaurants
                                                                                       are connected to the network. Industrial
                                                                                       plants consuming substantial amounts of
                                                                                       water would still have to develop their own
                                                                                       source.
Help the Government develop and implement Not available.                               A WSS policy was developed and adopted by
a sectoral investment program based on a                                               the Government, based on global experience,
sound policy framework.                                                                including private sector participation in
                                                                                       service delivery.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
PPWSA component: persons served with          PPWSA component:                         PPWSA component:
clean water supply, unaccounted for water,    - Persons served: 99,629 connections;    - Persons served: 105,777 connections;
operating ratio, average tariff.              - UFW: <18 percent;                      - UFW: 17 percent;
                                              - Operating ratio: 26 percent;           - Operating ratio: 26.17 percent;
                                              - Average tariff: Riels 987 per m3.      - Average tariff: Riels 987 per m3.
SWSA component: persons served with           SWSA component:                          SWSA component:
clean water supply, unaccounted for water,    - Persons served: 1,318 connections;     - Persons served: 2,658 connections;
operating ratio, average tariff.              - UFW: 36.4 percent;                     - UFW: 26.3 percent;
                                              - Operating ratio: 76 percent;           - Operating ratio: 76 percent;
                                              - Average tariff: Riels 1,344 per m3.    - Average tariff: Riels 1,332 per m3.
Policy component: Letter of Sector Policy for December 1999.                           December 1999.
WSS sector


1End of project




                                                                  - 23 -

                  Annex 1 - Table 1- PPWSA - Operating and financial indicators, 1997-2003
                                        (currency in current terms)

                                 1997      1998     1999      2000    2001       2002     2003   2003
                               Actual     Actual   Actual   Actual    Actual    Actual SAR tar. Actual
Number of service connections    42,113    50,409    60,482   67,016   74,945    88,571   90,397 105,777
Number of connections for poor        0         0       101     575     2,709     3,966        0  6,708
Water prod. capacity (m3/day)   110,000 120,000 120,000 120,000 120,000 185,000 175,000 235,000
Water produced (000 m3)          38,455    39,983    40,623   39,801   37,763    41,793          46,871
Water sold (000 m3)              17,450    16,431    20,401   28,560   28,085    32,667   39,062 40,082
Water losses (UFW) (%)              55.8    55.89     48.07    35.47    22.91     21.45    40.00  17.00
Billing Ratio (%)                 44.20     44.11     51.93    64.53    77.15     78.50     0.00  82.79
Collection Ratio (%)              89.00     97.93     98.95    99.51    99.64     99.71     0.00 101.10
Operating ratio (%)               62.00     54.00     47.00    36.00    42.00     33.00    44.00  26.17
Average tariff (Riels/m3)            762      791       764     776       942       947    1,118     987
Operating revenue (Riels MM)     12,791    17,361    20,661   25,124   30,922    36,533   43,678 38,508
Net income (Riels MM)             1,243       731     1,516    3,353    5,837     5,045      458  7,979
Total assets (Riels MM)         262,499 274,269 290,045 321,183 379,250 421,212 495,072 482,196
Debt/equity ratio (times)           0.05      0.07     0.12     0.23     0.42       0.55    0.32   0.29
Debt service coverage         N.A.          22.62      8.58     6.23     3.69       2.98     1.3   0.62
Return on revenue (%)             9.72%     4.21%    7.34%   13.35%   18.88%     13.81%      1.0  16.09
Return on assets (%)                 0.6       1.3       1.3     2.6      5.3        1.9     0.1   1.94
Account receivable (days)            137       86        76      62        63         63      82      32
Sources: SAR for targets; PPWSA for actuals.




                                                   - 24 -

                          Annex 1 - Table 2 - SWSA - Operating and financial indicators, 1997-2004
                                                        (currency in current Riels)

                                              1997       1998        1999       2000       2001        2002        2003       2003  Q1 2004
                                             Actual     Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual SAR tar. Actual                          Actual
Population (central district)                 50,000     67,000      69,000     71,000 73,000 74,000                76,000   76,000  76,000
Service connections                               921        964      1,050      1,115      1,248       1,304        2,329     1,318  2,658
Theor. cap. of plants (m3/day) 1/               8,000      8,000      8,000      8,000      8,000       8,000       10,000   10,000  10,000
Approx. effective capacity (m3/day)             3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000       3,000                  6,000  6,000
Intake of raw water (000 m3/year)                 712        765         797       930      1,022         914                  1,091    397
Capacity effectively used (m3/day)              1,951      2,096      2,184      2,548      2,800       2,504                  2,989  4,411
Clear water produced (000 m3/year)                672        713         728       846         925        836                    962    360
Clear water sold (000 m/year)                    510        503         504       611         646        580                    611    265
Water losses (UFW) (%) 2/                        24.1       29.5        30.8       27.8       30.2       30.6         17.0      36.4    26.3
Collection efficiency (%)                         NA        94.5        91.0       90.1       94.4       96.2                   97.6   N.A.
Operating ratio (%)                               117        102         101         82         71         76           64        76
Average tariff (Riels/m3)                    1,000.0 1,011.0 1,021.0 1,364.7 1,358.8 1,317.0                       1,743.0 1,344.2   1,332.4
Operating revenue (Riels MM)                      431        536         561       783         886        785        3,088       840
Net income (Riels MM)                              -92       -76         -98         45        160         96          243        98
Total assets (Riels MM)                         1,058      1,067      1,267      1,342      1,381       1,416       21,614     1,594
Debt/equity ratio (times)                                   9.17                   5.16     10.31                     1.82     15.07
Debt service coverage                                    111.28                -118.47       -5.34                    12.6
Return on revenue (%)                           -21.4       -14.2      -17.4        5.8       18.1       12.2                   11.7
Return on assets (%)                            -16.1       -12.8      -13.6        6.0       23.1       15.1                   15.3
Account receivable (days)                                    129                     99         98        105                    104
Sources: SAR for targets; SWSA for actuals.
Notes: 1/ The treatment plant using water from the lake was constructed in 1958 and has a theoretical capacity of 8,000 m3/day.
However, effective capacity was only 2,000-3,000 m3/day because of limited water available from the lake and poor condition of
the equipment. The additional capacity of 2,000 m3/day in 2003 is due to the construction of the 3 new wells.




                                                                    - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
PPWSA component                                             29.17           29.11             99.7
SWSA component                                               3.50             4.67           133.4
Policy component                                             2.08             0.74            35.5
Pilot sanitation program                                     0.00             0.78

Total Baseline Cost                                         34.75           35.30
 Physical Contingencies                                      4.55
 Price Contingencies                                         2.33
                         Total Project Costs                41.63           35.30
                   Total Financing Required                 41.63           35.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          26.59             0.00         0.00          5.37         31.96
                                 (23.06)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (23.06)
2. Goods                           2.71             0.00         0.63          0.04          3.38
                                  (2.39)           (0.00)      (0.56)          (0.00)       (2.95)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         4.61          0.22          4.83
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.18)          (0.00)       (4.18)
4. Revolving fund for the          0.00             0.00         0.30          0.00          0.30
connection program for
poor
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.26)          (0.00)       (0.26)
5. Training                        0.00             0.00         0.58          0.00          0.58
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.51)          (0.00)       (0.51)
6. Incremental operating           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.59          0.59
costs and land acquisition.       (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          29.30             0.00         6.12          6.22         41.64
                                 (25.45)           (0.00)      (5.51)          (0.00)       (30.96)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          14.19            0.00         0.00           4.12        18.31
                                 (13.23)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (13.23)
2. Goods                          11.54            0.00         0.43           0.05        12.02
                                 (11.54)          (0.00)       (0.43)         (0.00)       (11.97)



                                                - 26 -

   3. Services                                                 0.00              4.77             0.00              4.77
                                              ()              (0.00)            (4.77)            (0.00)           (4.77)
   4. Revolving fund for the                0.00               0.00              0.09             0.00              0.09
   connection program for
   poor
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.09)            (0.00)           (0.09)
   5. Training                              0.00               0.00              0.06             0.00              0.06
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.06)            (0.00)           (0.06)
   6. Incremental operating                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.05              0.05
   costs and land acquisition.             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                25.73              0.00              5.35             4.22             35.30
                                           (24.77)            (0.00)            (5.35)            (0.00)           (30.12)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
PPWSA component                25.87                      8.75       23.93                               92.5                0.0
SWSA component                  3.58                      0.08        4.67                               130.4               0.0
Policy component                1.51                                  0.74                               49.0
Pilot sanitation program                                              0.78
Import taxes and duties                      5.64                                                                  0.0
Total                          30.96         5.64         8.83       30.12         5.18                  97.3      91.8      0.0




                                                           - 27 -

                     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


PhnomPenhWaterSupplyProject                                                                                                                                                                                                              PPWSA7


Economicanalysis


                           Costs                                 Waterbilled                             Physicalwaterbenefits                 Pricesfordomestic Resource Consumer Pricefor           EconomicBenefits            Net     NPV@
Year Year    Withproj.       W'outProj.              Withproj.    W'outproj.   Increment          Domestic         Commercial        Total      incrementalwater  saving   surplus commercial   Domestic        Commercial Total Benefit 10%
No        Capital O&M          O&M         Incr.                                          Rescostsav.     Consurp.                            W/proj. W/oproj.   withproj.           water Rescostsav.Consurp. Proxyben.
         ($million)($million) ($million) ($million)('000M3/year)('000M3/year)('000M3/year)('000M3/year)('000M3/year)('000M3/year)('000M3/year) ($/M3)    ($/M3)   ($/M3)   ($/M3)   ($/M3) ($million) ($million) ($million)     ($million)


                                                                                                                                                              0.5              0.1                                             1
 1   1997       7.8     2.4          2.4      7.8        14947        14876           71                                                           0.3      0.50      0.20    0.02     0.52    0.01                               -7.74       -8
 2   1998      12.5     2.5          2.4    12.5         17553        14719         2834        1545           1043       246           2834      0.26      0.50      0.24    0.02     0.45    0.36        0.02      0.11   0.50 -12.00 -10.91
 3   1999       3.0     2.6          2.4      3.1        21039        14561         6478        3549           2531       399           6478      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.38    0.98        0.07      0.15   1.21  -1.84    -1.52
 4   2000       7.6     2.5          2.4      7.7        25673        14402         11272       4682           2783      3807          11272      0.20      0.50      0.30    0.03     0.35    1.39        0.08      1.33   2.80  -4.87    -3.66
 5   2001      11.2     2.4          2.4    11.1         28982        14241         14741       6224           3906      4611          14741      0.23      0.50      0.27    0.03     0.26    1.69        0.11      1.19   2.98  -8.16    -5.57
 6   2002      15.3     2.6          2.4    15.5         32685        14078         18607       8976           4671      4960          18607      0.23      0.50      0.27    0.03     0.26    2.44        0.13      1.27   3.84 -11.57    -7.19
 7   2003      16.2     2.9          2.4    16.7         38848        13913         24934      12354           5609      6970          24934      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    3.40        0.15      1.76   5.32 -11.13    -6.29
 8   2004       5.1     4.1          2.4      6.8        54757        13747         41009      14325           6440      20243         41009      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    3.95        0.18      5.12   9.25   3.03    1.56
 9   2005       4.7     4.2          2.4      6.5        55722        13580         42142      16296           7324      18522         42142      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    4.49        0.20      4.69   9.38   3.59    1.67
10 2006         1.6     4.3          2.4      3.5        57327        13410         43917      18267           8263      17387         43917      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.03        0.23      4.40   9.66   6.92    2.93
11 2007         0.0     4.4          2.4      2.0        58922        13239         45683      18737           8761      18184         45683      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.16        0.24      4.60 10.01    8.84    3.41
12 2008         1.1     4.5          2.4      3.2        60510        13067         47443      19216           9279      18949         47443      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.30        0.26      4.80 10.35    7.99    2.80
13 2009         0.1     4.6          2.4      2.3        61657        12892         48765      19703           9816      19247         48765      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.43        0.27      4.87 10.57    9.17    2.92
14 2010         0.6     4.6          2.4      2.8        62054        12716         49338      20198          10373      18767         49338      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.57        0.29      4.75 10.60    8.67    2.51
15 2011         0.8     4.7          2.4      3.1        62453        12538         49915      20703          10950      18261         49915      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.70        0.30      4.62 10.63    8.50    2.24
16 2012         0.0     4.7          2.4      2.3        62853        12358         50495      21217          11549      17728         50495      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.85        0.32      4.49 10.65    9.32    2.23
17 2013         0.0     4.8          2.4      2.3        63255        12177         51078      21740          12171      17168         51078      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    5.99        0.34      4.35 10.67    9.32    2.03
18 2014         0.0     4.8          2.4      2.4        63659        11993         51666      22272          12815      16578         51666      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.14        0.35      4.20 10.69    9.33    1.85
19 2015         0.0     4.9          2.4      2.4        64065        11808         52256      22814          13045      16397         52256      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.29        0.36      4.15 10.80    9.42    1.69
20 2016         0.0     4.9          2.4      2.5        64472        11621         52851      23366          13280      16204         52851      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.44        0.37      4.10 10.91    9.52    1.56
21 2017         0.0     5.0          2.4      2.5        64881        11432         53449      23678          13413      16357         53449      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.52        0.37      4.14 11.03    9.62    1.43
22 2018         1.1     5.0          2.4      3.7        65292        11241         54050      23993          13547      16510         54050      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.61        0.37      4.18 11.16    8.60    1.16
23 2019         0.1     5.1          2.4      2.8        65704        11049         54656      24312          13683      16661         54656      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.70        0.38      4.22 11.29    9.72    1.19
24 2020         0.6     5.1          2.4      3.3        66119        10854         55265      24633          13820      16812         55265      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.79        0.38      4.26 11.42    9.30    1.04
25 2021         0.4     5.2          2.4      3.2        66535        10657         55877      24958          13958      16961         55877      0.22      0.50      0.28    0.03     0.25    6.88        0.38      4.29 11.56    9.60    0.97


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8% -7.68




                                                                                                                         - 28 -

Sihanoukville Water Supply Project                                                                                                                                                   SWS7
Summary
Economic analysis


                          Costs                   Water consumed                  Physical water benefits       Prices for domestic   Res.   Con.       Economic Benefits      Net   NPV @
Year Year      With proj.   W/o Proj.      With proj. W'out proj. Increment   Domestic consumption       Total  incremental water    saving surplus     Domestic        Total Benefit 10%
No          Capital O & M    O & M    Incr. 000 M3/   000 M3/     000 M3/ Res cost sav.    Con surp.    000 M3/ With proj. W/o proj. w/ proj.       Res cost Con surp.
             ($Mn)  ($Mn)     ($Mn)  ($Mn)    yr         yr           yr   ('000 M3/yr)  ('000 M3/yr)     yr    ($/M3)      ($/M3)   ($/M3) ($/M3) sav ($Mn)  ($Mn)           ($Mn)


                                                                                                                               0.75            0.1
  1  1997       0.0      0.2      0.2   0.0    511           511         0                                           0.38      0.75     0.37  0.04       0.00            1.00   0.00     0
  2  1998       0.2      0.2      0.2   0.2    503           511        -8           24            -32       -8      0.34      0.75     0.41  0.04       0.01    0.00    0.01  -0.13  -0.12
  3  1999       0.2      0.1      0.2   0.2    506           511        -5           72            -77       -5      0.29      0.75     0.46  0.05       0.03    0.00    0.03   0.28   0.23
  4  2000       0.1      0.2      0.2   0.1    610           511        99          108             -8       99      0.35      0.75     0.40  0.04       0.04    0.00    0.04  -0.09  -0.07
  5  2001       0.4      0.1      0.2   0.4    647           511       136          181            -46      136      0.35      0.75     0.40  0.04       0.07    0.00    0.07  -0.34  -0.24
  6  2002       0.9      0.1      0.2   0.9    581           511        70          212           -143       70      0.33      0.75     0.42  0.04       0.09    -0.01   0.08  -0.96  -0.60
  7  2003       2.1      0.1      0.2   2.1    609           511        98          220           -122       98      0.34      0.75     0.41  0.04       0.09    -0.01   0.09  -2.06  -1.16
  8  2004       0.0      0.2      0.2   0.0   1058           511       547          991           -445      547      0.33      0.75     0.42  0.04       0.41    -0.02   0.40   0.43   0.22
  9  2005       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1085           511       574        1015            -441      574      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.38    -0.02   0.36   0.44   0.21
 10  2006       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1118           511       607        1045            -439      607      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.39    -0.02   0.38   0.45   0.19
 11  2007       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1151           511       640        1076            -436      640      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.40    -0.02   0.39   0.46   0.18
 12  2008       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1186           511       675        1108            -433      675      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.42    -0.02   0.40   0.46   0.16
 13  2009       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1222           511       711        1140            -430      711      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.43    -0.02   0.41   0.47   0.15
 14  2010       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1259           511       748        1174            -426      748      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.44    -0.02   0.43   0.48   0.14
 15  2011       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1284           511       773        1190            -417      773      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.45    -0.02   0.43   0.46   0.12
 16  2012       0.1      0.3      0.2   0.2   1310           511       799        1207            -408      799      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.45    -0.02   0.44   0.41   0.10
 17  2013       0.2      0.3      0.2   0.3   1336           511       825        1225            -399      825      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.02   0.45   0.30   0.07
 18  2014       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1350           511       839        1225            -386      839      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.49   0.10
 19  2015       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1363           511       852        1225            -372      852      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.49   0.09
 20  2016       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1377           511       866        1225            -359      866      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.49   0.08
 21  2017       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1390           511       879        1225            -345      879      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.49   0.07
 22  2018       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1404           511       893        1225            -331      893      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.46   0.06
 23  2019       0.1      0.3      0.2   0.2   1418           511       907        1225            -317      907      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.40   0.05
 24  2020       0.2      0.3      0.2   0.3   1433           511       922        1225            -303      922      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.29   0.03
 25  2021       0.0      0.3      0.2   0.1   1447           511       936        1225            -289      936      0.37      0.75     0.38  0.04       0.46    -0.01   0.45   0.48   0.05


                                                                                                                                                                                11%    0.10




                                                                                             - 29 -

Phnom Penh & Sihanoukville Water Supply Project
             9/21/2004       10:46
Overall project economic analysis


                                          Unallocated project costs                         Comp. Benefits            Net       NPV @
  Year         Year     Training     Studies      Project        Other        Total      Phnom        Sihanouk-    Project        10%
   No                                              Coord.                                  Penh          ville     Benefits
                         ($million)   ($million)   ($million)   ($million)   ($million)   ($million)   ($million)   ($million)   ($million)




    1          1997                                                                            -7.74          0.00       -7.74        -7.74
    2          1998                                                                 0.00    -12.00          -0.13     -12.13       -11.03
    3          1999                          0.30                      0.16         0.46       -1.84          0.28       -2.03        -1.68
    4          2000             0.03         0.37                      0.02         0.42       -4.87        -0.09        -5.39        -4.05
    5          2001                          0.87                      0.05         0.92       -8.16        -0.34        -9.42        -6.44
    6          2002                                                    0.02         0.02    -11.57          -0.96     -12.55          -7.79
    7          2003                                                    0.02         0.02    -11.13          -2.06     -13.22          -7.46
    8          2004                                                                 0.00         3.03         0.43         3.46         1.78
    9          2005                                                                 0.00         3.59         0.44         4.03         1.88
   10          2006                                                                 0.00         6.92         0.45         7.36         3.12
   11          2007                                                                 0.00         8.84         0.46         9.29         3.58
   12          2008                                                                 0.00         7.99         0.46         8.45         2.96
   13          2009                                                                 0.00         9.17         0.47         9.64         3.07
   14          2010                                                                 0.00         8.67         0.48         9.15         2.65
   15          2011                                                                 0.00         8.50         0.46         8.95         2.36
   16          2012                                                                 0.00         9.32         0.41         9.73         2.33
   17          2013                                                                 0.00         9.32         0.30         9.63         2.10
   18          2014                                                                 0.00         9.33         0.49         9.82         1.94
   19          2015                                                                 0.00         9.42         0.49         9.91         1.78
   20          2016                                                                 0.00         9.52         0.49      10.01           1.64
   21          2017                                                                 0.00         9.62         0.49      10.11           1.50
   22          2018                                                                 0.00         8.60         0.46         9.06         1.22
   23          2019                                                                 0.00         9.72         0.40      10.12           1.24
   24          2020                                                                 0.00         9.30         0.29         9.59         1.07
   25          2021                                                                 0.00         9.60         0.48      10.08           1.02


                                                                                                                            8%             -9




                                                                    - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              5/3/1996                  1    PROJECT ENGINEER (1)
              5/13/1996                 1    PROJECT ENGINEER (1)
              7/12/1996                 8    TTL (PROJECT ENG.) (1),
                                             ECON. (1), FIN. ANAL. (1) ,
                                             WATER TA SPEC.; (1)
                                             LAWYER (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                                             SOCIOL. (1); ENVIR. SPEC. (1)
              10/29/96                11     TTL (ECON.) (1); SOCIOL. (1);
                                             ENG. (1); INST. SPEC. (1); FIN.
                                             ANAL. (2); LAWYERS (2);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1); EDI
                                             (1); ECON.(1).
              4/4/1997                  9    TTL (ECON) (1); FIN. ECON.
                                             (1); IMPLEM. ANAL. (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1); FIN.
                                             ANAL. (1); WATER SECTOR
                                             SPEC. (2); LAWYER (1); EDI
                                             (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/15/97                  4    TTL (ECON) (1); LAWYER
                                             (1); FIN. ANAL. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              08/23/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                    S               S
              11/13/1998                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
              04/04/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)


              06/19/1999                1    PROJECT ENGINEER (1)                S               S
              12/11/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                             (1)


              07/19/2000                2    TTL, WATER & SANIT SPE              S               S
                                             (1); PROJECT ENGINEER (1)
                                        3    LEAD WATER&SANIT. SPEC.             S


                                              - 31 -

               12/09/2000                                                          S
                                            (1); PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                            FIN. ANALYST (1)
               04/08/2001              2    PROJECT ENGINEER (1);             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               10/03/2001              1    PROJECT ENGINEER (1)              S    S
               12/18/2001              4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    HS
                                            PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PSD SPECIALIST (1)



               06/11/2002              3    PROJECT ENGINEER (1); FM          S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            COMMUNITY
                                            PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1)
               07/26/2002              2    LEAD WATER&SANIT. SPC.            S    S
                                            (1); PROJECT ENGINEER (1)
               12/14/2002              4    SR. WATER & SAN. ENG (1);         S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1)
               02/26/2003              2    LEAD WATER&SANIT SPEC.            S    S
                                            (1); SR WATER&SANIT SPEC.
                                            (1)
               12/17/2003              3    WATER & SANITATION SPT            S    S
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1)
               5/13/2004               1    PROJECT ENGINEER (1)              S    S

 ICR
               5/14/2004              2     PROJECT ENGINEER (1);            HS    HS
                                            ECONOMIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           163.6                         315.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 40.1                         107.5
  Supervision                          148.0                         480.6
  ICR                                     3.0                          32.0
  Total                                351.7                         903.6




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report - Cambodia - Urban Water Supply Project - Report No. 17026-KH, dated January,
12, 1998.

DCA and PA, dated March 20, 1998 and all amendments.

Minutes of Negotiations, dated December 15, 1997.

Memorandum to the Board, dated October 15, 1999 - IDA/R99-165.

All Aide-Mmoire, BTO, and PSRs.

OED - Water Supply and Sanitation Projects - The Bank' s Experience - 1967-1989 - June 19, 1992.

OED - Efficient, Sustainable Service for All? An OED Review of the World Bank' s Assistance to Water
Supply and Sanitation - Report R2003-0154, August 7, 2003.

CAS - January 28, 1997 - Report No. 16255-KH.

PAD - Cambodia - Provincial and Peri-Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project - Report No.
25658-KH, dated March 31, 2003.

OED - Cambodia - Country Assistance Evaluation, Report SecM2000-708, December 12, 2000.

ICR prepared by PPWSA, May 2004.

The complete Excel spreadsheets of the economic and financial analyses are available in the project files.

QAG: Cambodia - Portfolio Quality Enhancement Review, June 28, 2004 (draft).




                                                 - 35 -

- 36 -

