Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3041 KH
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Water Supply Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 20, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3041 KH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 20, 1998, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Phnom Penh Water 
Supply Authority ("PPWSA") with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will relend to PPWSA part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS: (C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through 
the Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority ("SWSA") with the assistance of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Industry, Mining and Energy ("MIME"), and Part C of the Project 
will be carried out by MIME, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to SWSA through MIME and to MIME part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (D) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and PPWSA.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, 
the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set 
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)
"Business Plan" means PPWSA’s business investment program and related 
financing plan for the period 1998-2001, to be prepared and adopted by PPWSA pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Coordinating Committee" means the Borrower’s Coordinating Committee for 
the Water and Sanitation Sector, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Council of 
Ministers Decision No. 47 dated November 11, 1997, and composed of senior 
representative of MIME (chair), and the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, Ministry 
of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Rural Development, 
Council for the Development of Cambodia, the Phnom Penh Municipality and PPWSA;
(c)
"Decree" means the Borrower’s Sub-Decree No. 52 dated December 19, 1996, 
on the Creation of the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority as an autonomous public 
enterprise of the Borrower, responsible for the production and distribution of water 
within the Borrower’s capital city of Phnom Penh;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s or PPWSA’s or SWSA’s Fiscal Years, which period commences on January 1 
and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means, 
collectively, more than one Fiscal Year;
(e)
"MIME" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy, and 
such term includes any successor thereto;
(f)
"NBC" means the National Bank of Cambodia, the Borrower’s central bank, 
and such term includes any successor thereto;
Page  3
(g)
"PPWSA" means the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority, a public enterprise 
of the Borrower possessing financial and operational autonomy, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Sub-Decree No. 52 dated December 19, 1996;
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
PPWSA, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Riel" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
(j)
"SWSA" means the Sihanoukville Water Supply Authority, a departmental 
provincial authority of MIME, established and operating as a quasi-governmental entity 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Ministerial Decree No. 524 dated September 2, 1996;
(k)
"Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean the accounts referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, the term "Special Accounts" means, 
collectively, Special Account A and Special Account B, and the term "Special Account" 
means any one of the Special Accounts;
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(m)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and PPWSA pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(n)
"Turnkey Contract" means the contract for the detailed design, supply, 
installation, construction and commissioning of the Chruoy Chang War Water Treatment 
Plant under Part A (1) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 22,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, and Parts B 
and C of the Project, respectively, open and maintain in United States Dollars two (2) 
separate special deposit accounts in NBC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, to be known as Special Account A and Special Account B. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
Page  4
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 2008 and ending September 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2017 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) 
in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall: (i) cause PPWSA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all of the obligations of PPWSA therein set forth in respect of Part A of 
the Project; (ii) carry out Part B of the Project through SWSA under the authority of 
MIME; and (iii) carry out Part C of the Project through MIME; all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental and public water supply utility practices. The Borrower 
shall take, or cause to be taken, all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PPWSA to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall take, or cause to be taken, all action necessary or otherwise required on its 
part to ensure that: (i) Part A of the Project is carried out by PPWSA in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement; (ii) Part B of the Project is carried 
out through SWSA with the assistance of MIME, in accordance with Part A of the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (iii) Part C of 
the Project is carried out by MIME in accordance with Part B of the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit, 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (A), (2) (A), (3) (A), (4) and (5) (A) 
set out in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and available to 
finance Part A of the Project, to PPWSA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and PPWSA, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association which shall include, inter alia, the terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MIME, promptly enter into an agreement or 
make the necessary arrangements, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Association, 
with SWSA providing for its respective obligations in carrying out Part B of the 
Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall promptly enter into an agreement or make the necessary 
arrangements, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Association, with MIME providing 
for its respective obligations in carrying out Part C of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by PPWSA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, 
the Coordinating Committee pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association. The Borrower shall ensure that the Committee shall be chaired by the 
Minister of MIME, and that it shall develop, not later than December 31, 1999, a 
medium-to-long-term comprehensive national strategy for the appropriate development of 
efficient and cost-effective national water supply and sanitation sector services and 
the rationalization and streamlining of related institutional arrangements and 
governmental responsibilities.
(b)
On the basis of the strategy to be developed by the Coordinating 
Committee under Paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 
2000, furnish to the Association for its review a proposed Letter of Sector Policy 
specifying in detail the policy actions and related institutional arrangements for 
improving the capacity and efficiency of the Borrower’s national water supply and 
sanitation sector.
(c)
Promptly upon its receipt of the Association’s comments and 
recommendations pursuant to the review referred to hereinabove, the Borrower shall 
formally adopt and then take all measures necessary to implement said Policy with due 
diligence and efficiency, incorporating the Association’s comments and recommendations 
thereon.
(d)
The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views with regard to the Borrower’s national policy for 
pricing and setting tariffs for urban and rural water supply and for the provision of 
related sanitation services, and its plans in respect of the overall development of 
its national water supply and sanitation sectors.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MIME, cause SWSA to: (i) maintain 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of SWSA in respect of carrying 
out Part B of the Project, or any part thereof, and the operations and financial 
condition of SWSA; and (ii) register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through MIME, cause SWSA to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine (9) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, through MIME, cause SWSA to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section, and those for the Special Accounts, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine (9) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  7
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
PPWSA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that PPWSA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Decree shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PPWSA to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or dis-establishment of PPWSA or SWSA, or for the 
suspension of any of their respective operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
The events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and PPWSA, and has duly entered into effect in accordance with its terms 
and conditions.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by PPWSA, 
and is legally binding upon PPWSA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and PPWSA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PPWSA in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 (a) (i) of 
this Agreement, and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement, shall cease and 
determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty 
(20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92nd Street
Page  8
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(583) 17770101 CMPP
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Ojonjo-Iweala
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
 SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
(A) For Turnkey 
   15,100,000
100% of foreign
Contract under Part A 
expenditures and
of the Project
50% of local
expenditures
(B) Under Part B 
     1,800,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
(A) Under Part A
     1,990,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
Page  9
(B) Under Part B
        40,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
(C) Under Part C
       130,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ Services
(A) Under Part A
     1,390,000
100%
of the Project
(B) Under Part B
       700,000
100%
of the Project
(C) Under Part C
       980,000
100%
of the Project
(4)
Connection fees under
Part A (4) of the Project
190,000
100%
(5)
Training
(A) Under Part A 
       280,000
100%
of the Project
(B) Under Part B
       100,000
100%
of the Project
     _________
TOTAL
    22,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) Categories (1) (B), (2) (B) and (5) (B) until after the Association 
shall have communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence furnished that the 
Borrower’s level and structure of water tariffs for SWSA have been revised in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) each; (b) 
works under contracts costing less than the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars 
($200,000) each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms 
costing less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) each; and 
(d) consulting services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less 
than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
* * * * * *
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase water supply and improve 
drinking quality and access in the two largest metropolitan cities of the Borrower 
(namely, Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville); (ii) improve the institutional, technical and 
financial performance of the water utilities in these two cities; (iii) enhance 
availability of water supply for individual and commercial purposes to spur economic 
growth in said cities; and (iv) assist the Borrower to develop and implement an 
appropriate policy framework, institutional structure and prioritized investment 
Page  10
program for its national water supply and sanitation sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Phnom Penh Water Supply and Institutional Development
1.
Designing, rehabilitating and extending the Chruoy Chang War Water treatment 
plant, including: (i) constructing new sedimentation plants and reservoirs; (ii) 
installing pipes and mechanical and electrical equipment; (iii) providing drainage, 
road, fencing and lighting works; (iv) installing transmission mains; and (v) 
providing  construction supervision consultancy services.
2.
Installing about eighty-five kilometers (85km) of pipes and related fittings for 
piped water supply in the Phnom Penh southern district of Chamcar Morn, including the 
provision of leak detection and rectification equipment.
3.
Enhancing PPWSA’s administrative and managerial capabilities, through the 
provision of the specialized technical assistance services of: (i) a financial expert; 
(ii) an unaccounted for water expert; (iii) training experts and technicians; (iv) 
technicians specializing in water quality; and (v) accounting and computer 
technicians.
4.
Carrying out a pilot program for household water supply connections.
5.
Establishing a water and sanitation sector training center.
6.
Provision of goods, equipment and technical services necessary to carry out the 
foregoing.
Part B:
Sihanoukville Water Supply and Institutional Development
1.
Constructing a weir crest against an existing bridge abutment to increase SWSA’s 
surface raw water reservoir storage capacity.
2.
Drilling four (4) new wells, and undertaking related works and connections to 
the water distribution network, including supply and installation of pipes and related 
equipment.
3.
Improving existing production, treatment and distribution systems and 
undertaking related works, including: (i) improving raw water pumping system; (ii) 
improving raw water treatment facilities; (iii) constructing clear water storage 
reservoirs; (iv) improving water distribution networks, including supply and 
installation of pipes fittings and related equipment; and (v) installing three (3) 
tanker water filling points and twenty (20) water selling points.
4.
Enhancing SWSA’s administrative, managerial and technical capabilities, through 
the provision of the specialized technical assistance services of: (i) a project 
planning and management engineer; (ii) an accounting expert; (iii) a computer 
technician; (iv) a procurement specialist; and (v) a training specialist.
5.
Carrying out: (i) a socio-economic survey to establish water customer base and 
effective demand for water; (ii) an engineering study to determine design of 
groundwater deferrination plant and expansion of reticulation systems; and (iii) 
studies on long term water resources in Sihanoukville; all through the provision of 
consultants’ services.
6.
Provision of goods, equipment and technical services necessary to carry out the 
foregoing.
Part C:
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Policy Framework Development
1.
Developing and carrying out a national water and sanitation sector policy, with 
the support of the provision to the Coordinating Committee of the technical assistance 
services of: (i) a policy consultant; and (ii) an institutional consultant.
2.
Developing and carrying out: (i) a sanitation and waste water management study; 
and (ii) a long-term investment program for water and sanitation (both rural and 
urban).
3.
Provision of goods, equipment and technical services necessary to carry out the 
Page  11
foregoing.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program For Parts B and C of the Project
Part A:
The provisions of Part A of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of 
Sections 3.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement in respect of Part B of the Project.
1. 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, through MIME, cause SWSA to maintain the following, throughout the 
period of Project implementation, with terms of reference, membership and other 
resources acceptable to the Association.
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, through MIME, cause SWSA to:
(a) Maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the progress 
achieved in carrying out Part B of the Project.
(b) Prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) an annual report, not later than 
March in each Fiscal Year, beginning Fiscal Year 1998, summarizing the monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above in respect of 
the preceding Fiscal year, and setting forth proposed measures, as indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project; and 
(ii) a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 2000, setting forth any proposed 
measures, as indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the 
objectives of the Project.
(c) Exchange views with the Association on each report furnished pursuant to 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and thereafter take all measures in relation thereto 
as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
3. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause SWSA, through MIME, to:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and the Borrower, a plan for the 
future operation of Part B  of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower, MIME and SWSA on said plan.
4. 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MIME, cause SWSA carry out the obligations set 
forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
5. 
The Borrower shall, through MIME, take any and all action required to enable 
SWSA to maintain the structure and level of its water supply tariffs, in accordance 
with a sound and consistently applied methodology acceptable to the Association, so 
that under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity 
utilization SWSA shall cover its operating costs (including taxes), earn an adequate 
return on funds invested, meet its financial obligations (including, but without 
limitation, those provided in paragraphs 5 and 6 above), and otherwise make a 
reasonable contribution to future investment for expansion of capacity. The 
Association, Borrower MIME and SWSA shall, from time to time at the request of either 
party, exchange views with respect to the adequacy of said tariffs.
6. 
(a)  Not later than October 1 in each Fiscal Year, beginning in Fiscal Year 
1998, the Borrower, and representatives of MIME and SWSA  shall exchange views and 
review with the Association the adequacy of the structure and levels of SWSA’s water 
tariffs, referred to in paragraph 5 above.
Page  12
(b)
Based upon said review, the Borrower shall propose for the Association’s 
comments any proposed adjustment to the structure or levels of SWSA’s water tariffs in 
respect of the following Fiscal Year.
(c)
Promptly thereafter, the Borrower shall, through MIME, taking into 
account the Association's views and recommendations, cause said tariffs to be adjusted 
as needed and cause SWSA to carry out the recommendations of said review with due 
diligence and efficiency.
7. 
The Borrower through MIME shall cause SWSA to carry out, not later than December 
31, 1998, a revaluation of its fixed assets in operation as of December 31, 1997, all 
in accordance with sound and consistently applied method of valuation acceptable to 
the Association.
8. 
(a)  Not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall, through MIME, cause SWSA 
to carry out the socio-economic survey, engineering study, and such other studies 
referred to in Part B (5) of the Project, all in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) 
Not later than December 31, 1999, the Borrower, through MIME, shall cause 
SWSA to (i) exchange views with the Association on each of said socio-economic survey, 
engineering study, and other studies, furnished pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, 
and (ii) thereafter take all measures in relation thereto as shall have been agreed 
with the Association.
Part B:
The provisions of Part A of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of 
Sections 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement in respect of Part C of the Project.
1. 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of Part C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause MIME to maintain appropriate and adequate institutional 
arrangements,  throughout the period of Project implementation, with terms of 
reference, personnel and other resources acceptable to the Association.
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall cause MIME to:
(a) Maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the progress 
achieved in carrying out Part C of the Project.
(b) Prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) an annual report, not later than 
November 30 in each Fiscal Year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities 
carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above in respect of the preceding Fiscal 
year, and setting forth proposed measures, as indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project; and (ii) a mid-term 
report, not later than November 30, 2000, setting forth any proposed measures, as 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of 
the Project.
(c) Exchange views with the Association on each report furnished pursuant to 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and thereafter take all measures in relation thereto 
as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
*  *  *  *  *  *
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (A), (2) (A), (3) 
(A), (4) and (5) (A) for Special Account A, and Categories (1) (B), (2) (B) and (C), 
(3) (B) and (C) and (5) (B) for Special Account B, set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  13
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to seven 
hundred thousand dollars ($700,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; and (ii) 
an amount equivalent to four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of 
this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation for Special Account A shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($350,000) and the Authorized 
Allocation for Special Account B shall be limited to an amount equivalent to two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equ
ivalent of one million four hundred seventy thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,470,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into such Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into such Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of such Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
Page  14
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
respective Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
*  *  *  *  *  *
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PPWSA, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement and Section 2.04 of 
the Project Agreement, shall include, inter alia, the following principal terms and 
conditions:
1.
PPWSA shall repay to the Borrower the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the 
Credit withdrawn from time to time from the Credit Account allocated to Categories (1) 
(A), (2) (A), (3) (A), (4) and (5) (A) set out in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Development Credit Agreement and available to finance the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project (the "Subsidiary Loan") over a period not to exceed seventeen 
(17) years, including a grace period not to exceed five (5) years.
2.
The Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in United States dollars and repaid by 
PPWSA to the Borrower in Riels, at least semi-annually at the official rate of 
exchange as determined by NBC on the respective dates on which the proceeds of the 
Subsidiary Loan are withdrawn from the Credit Account.
3.
PPWSA shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan, 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a fixed rate per annum equal to eight 
and one half percent (8 1/2%).
4.
PPWSA shall pay to the Borrower the commitment charges payable under Section 
2.06 of the Development Credit Agreement, allocable to the part of the proceeds of the 
Credit relent but not withdrawn by PPWSA.
Page  15
