Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3041 KH
Project Agreement
(Urban Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PHNOM PENH WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY
Dated March 20, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3041 KH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 20 998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the "Association") and PHNOM PENH WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY ("PPWSA").
WHEREAS: (A) By the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Kingdom of Cambodia (the "Borrower") and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,700,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that PPWSA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS: (B) By a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PPWSA, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to PPWSA on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (C) PPWSA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) PPWSA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
public water supply utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PPWSA shall otherwise agree, PPWSA shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PPWSA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, PPWSA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and PPWSA, a plan for the future 
operation of Part A of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with PPWSA on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, PPWSA 
shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association and which shall include, inter alia, the 
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
PPWSA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and it shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such a manner so as to protect its interests and those of the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, PPWSA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PPWSA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
PPWSA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PPWSA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PPWSA
Section 3.01. PPWSA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and water supply 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PPWSA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
Page  3
engineering, financial, environmental and public water supply utility practices.
Section 3.03. PPWSA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except in the ordinary course of business, PPWSA shall not, unless 
mutually agreed in advance between the Association and PPWSA, sell, lease, transfer or 
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which are required for the 
efficient conduct of its operations or the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.05. PPWSA shall maintain its existence and right to carry on its 
operations, and it shall promptly take all measures necessary to acquire, maintain, 
renew and otherwise exercise any and all rights (including, without limitation, land 
rights), powers, privileges and franchises required for the proper conduct of its 
operations and the prompt carrying out of its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PPWSA shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition, and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b) PPWSA 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine (9) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (i) above for such year as so audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association and PPWSA shall otherwise agree, 
PPWSA shall maintain, for each of its Fiscal Years, after its Fiscal Year ending on 
December 31, 1997, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not 
higher than fifty percent (50%).
(b)
Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, PPWSA shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by PPWSA and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such Fiscal 
Year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that PPWSA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) above for PPWSA’s Fiscal Years covered by such review, PPWSA 
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments 
of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation, 
interest and other charges on debt.
(ii) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
Page  4
(iii) The average current gross value of PPWSA’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross 
value of PPWSA’s fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at 
the end of the Fiscal Year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PPWSA shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of PPWSA for the Fiscal Year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve (12)-month period ended 
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 
times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of PPWSA for any succeeding 
Fiscal Year on all debt of PPWSA, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PPWSA maturing by its 
terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan, contract, 
or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for 
the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A)  the sum 
of revenues from all sources related to operations adjusted to 
take account of PPWSA's tariff rates in effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to 
operations including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B) expenses, including rates and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. PPWSA shall maintain the structure and level of its water supply 
tariffs, in accordance with a sound and consistently applied methodology acceptable to 
the Association, so that under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels 
of capacity utilization PPWSA shall cover its operating costs (including taxes), earn 
an adequate return on funds invested, meet its financial obligations (including, but 
without limitation, those provided in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 above), and otherwise 
make a reasonable contribution to future investment for expansion of capacity. The 
Association and SWSA shall, from time to time at the request of either party, exchange 
views with respect to the adequacy of said tariffs, and PPWSA shall promptly 
thereafter take any  and all action required consistent with the Association’s 
recommendations pursuant to any of said exchange of views.
Section 4.05. PPWSA shall carry out, not later than December 31, 1998, a 
revaluation of its fixed assets in operation as of December 31, 1997, all in 
accordance with sound and consistently applied method of valuation acceptable to the 
Association.
Page  5
Section 4.06. PPWSA shall ensure that, as of December 31, 1998, its average 
water billing collection period shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) days, and 
that thereafter it shall not exceed eighty (80) days, all in accordance with a sound 
and consistently applied methodology acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.07. Not later than December 31, 1998, PPWSA shall revise the structure 
and level of its water supply connection fees on the basis of actual cost and in 
accordance with a sound and consistently applied methodology acceptable to the 
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PPWSA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify PPWSA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For PPWSA:
Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
North of Cambodia Railway Station
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PPWSA, may be 
taken or executed by the Director General of PPWSA, or such other person or persons as 
Page  6
said Director General shall designate in writing, and PPWSA shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Authorized Representative
PHNOM PENH WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY
By /s/ Ek Sonn Chann
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the "Guidelines") and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the Turnkey Contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of twenty million 
dollars ($20,000,000) or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board 
set forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of 
the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
Page  7
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of two hundred 
thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
"Consultant Guidelines") and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for construction supervision under Part A of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Page  8
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or 
more, [the references for, and qualifications and terms of reference of, the 
consultants and the terms of their employment shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
* * * * * *
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program For Part A of the Project
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Section 1. PPWSA shall:
(a) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b) 
Prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) an annual report, not later than 
November 30 in each Fiscal Year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities 
carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above in respect of the preceding Fiscal 
Year, and setting forth proposed measures, as indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project; and (ii) a mid-term 
report, not later than November 30, 2000, setting forth any proposed measures, as 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of 
the Project.
(c) 
Exchange views with the Association on each report furnished pursuant to 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and thereafter take all measures in relation thereto 
as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2. (a) Not later than June 30, 1998, PPWSA shall furnish to the 
Association for its review its proposed Business Plan for the period 1998-2001.
(b) 
Promptly thereafter, PPWSA shall formally adopt and carry out said 
Business Plan with due diligence and efficiency, incorporating the Association’s 
comments and recommendations thereon.
Page  9
(c) 
The Association and PPWSA shall, from time to time at the request of 
either party, exchange views with respect to the progress achieved by PPWSA in 
implementing the Business Plan.
(d) 
PPWSA shall not amend the Business Plan, or otherwise abrogate, waive or 
suspend any part thereof, without the prior approval of the Association.
