                                                                                               97571
Cambodia: Urban Water Supply Projects                                             September 24, 2010




 URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT

 Improving Access to Clean Water and Sanitation




Overview
Two International Development Association (IDA)-financed water supply projects have helped
provide 90 percent of Phnom Penh’s residents with a reliable water supply, expanded the
water supply network in Phnom Penh to 1,966 kilometers (km) with 192,000 connections,
provided subsidized connections to 3,827 poor households in the city, and built 11 water plants
around the country. The capacity of the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA) has
been enhanced to meet commercial and industrial purposes. In recognition of its world-class
performance in water supply and self-sufficiency, the PPWSA was named the winner of the
Stockholm Industry Water Award 2010.


Challenge                                            MULTIMEDIA
In 2001, Cambodia had a population of some
12.3 million, with 20 percent of people living in
urban areas (including 1.3 million in the capital
city of Phnom Penh). Coverage of improved
water supply was extremely low (averaging 15 to
20 percent of urban populations), financing was
minimal (funds from donor or government
sources were grossly inadequate compared to
the needs), and institutional capacity in the
utilities was virtually non-existent.


Urban sanitation was even more under-served
than urban water supply. There are no modern
sewerage systems in Phnom Penh or other
cities, and this is becoming a key constraint for
urbanization in the country as a whole. For rural water           More Results
supply and sanitation, low coverage, low efficiency and the
lack of a clear development strategy remain key challenges.


The government’s target under its Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs) was to have 80 percent urban coverage of             90%
improved water supplies by 2015. To achieve this, the             of Phnom Penh residents now
government needed to make about US$30 million in                  have access to a reliable water
                                                                  supply
investments per year. The achievement of the MDGs in
water supply and sanitation in the whole country was
estimated to require the investment of at least US$600
million between 2002 and 2010. Annual sectoral investments        MORE INFORMATION
(funded entirely by donors) averaged less than US$20 million       Cambodia and the World Bank
a year. The challenge was to design a project that
addressed these issues for the provision of water supply and       Urban Water Supply Project
sanitation at the provincial and district level.                     Provincial and Peri-Urban Water
                                                                     Supply Project

Approach                                                             Feature: Clean Water on Tap
                                                                     Saves Time and Improves
The Urban Water Supply Project supported the government              Health
to expand access to a clean and reliable water supply. This
                                                                   Feature: Phnom Penh Poor Gets
IDA-financed project was implemented by the Phnom Penh
                                                                   Access to City’s Clean Water
Water Supply Authority (PPWSA) and is an example of what
can be achieved through enhanced autonomy and clearer
accountability for public utilities. Drawing on this experience,
IDA continues its support with the Cambodia Provincial and
                                                                  
Peri-Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(PPUWSSP). The goals of this project are to support the
PPWSA to expand its water network to target areas while supporting low-income communities
in urban centers through access to clean water and sanitation.


The government has also built on the entrepreneurship of its citizens and pursued innovative
ways of involving domestic private service providers to provide clean water by adopting a
laissez-faire approach. The government is working on formalizing these service providers and
has more recently experimented with a range of contracting approaches. This approach
enables the government to evaluate how the different models have worked in the Cambodian
context and to combine the strengths of the individual models.



              I cannot compare my happiness at having clean water to
           anything else. Before, we used water that a private supplier
         pumped directly from the river. Sometimes, we smelled disposal
         waste such as foamy mud. I am really, really happy now because
                  I have clean water…and it’s much cheaper.
                               — Nov Som, 75 years old, Phnom Penh resident


Results
Together the Urban Water Supply Project and the Provincial and Peri-Urban Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (PPUWSSP) have achieved the following results:

       Ninety percent of Phnom Penh’s residents will have access to a reliable and permanent
       water supply by the end of 2010 (with 100 percent coverage anticipated by 2020).

       Expanded water network to 1,966 km with 192,000 connections.

       A total of 3,827 poor households in Phnom Penh received subsidized connections
       ranging from 30 percent to 100 percent subsidy. This subsidy has helped the poor to
       save between US$30 and US$90 per year.

       Eleven water plants built around the country.

       In recognition of its world-class performance in water supply and self-sufficiency, the
       PPWSA was named the winner of the Stockholm Industry Water Award 2010.

Bank Contribution

       IDA provided US$35 million to the Urban Water Supply Project, which was implemented
       by PPWSA and completed in 2004.

       IDA is providing a US$16.9 million credit and a US$3 million grant support to the
      PPUWSSP, which will be completed in June 2011.


Partners
In addition to IDA, the Asian Development Bank, the Agence Française de Développement, the
Japan International Cooperation Agency and the International Association of French-Speaking
Mayors are active in Cambodia’s water sector.

Moving Forward
The PPUWSSP will help the government to:



      Develop a clear sector strategy for water and sanitation as part of its next Five-Year
      Development Plan;

      Expedite the expansion of water and sanitation coverage in both urban (provincial and
      lower cities/towns) and rural areas;

      Increase the efficiency of existing public and private water utilities in terms of capacity,
      efficiency and service quality;

      Tap PPWSA’s experience and capacity for provincial and lower-level utilities for wider
      dissemination and application as the starting point of sector reform; and

      Support the development of wastewater treatment plants in Phnom Penh and other
      major cities.



               Before, when there was baby delivery, we asked their
        husbands or relatives to collect water from the public well to put
        in the jar at the center. But now we just turn on the tap. It’s far
             much easier for our nurses, and saves a lot of time.
                      — Phum Kosal, Director of Chopvary Health Center,
                                            Banteay Meanchey province


 
