L N -3t433-CH)4
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10201-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
YiANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
December 17, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations
Country Department II
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officilI duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 31, 1991)
Currency   =   Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00   =   100 fen
$1.00   -   Y 5.38
Y I  -   $0.19
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km    -     Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh   -     Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
GWh   -     Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh   =     Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW    =     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW    =     Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW    =     Gigawatt (1 million kW)
Kcal  =     Kilocalorie (= 3.97 British thermal units)
kV    =     Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA         Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA   =     Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
GVA   =     Gigawatt-ampere (1 million kVA)
mg    =     Milligram
m3          Cubic meter
toe   =     Tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CcEPA           -   Central China Electric Power Administration
CCPG            -   Central China Power Grid
EPPEI           -   Electric Power Planning and Engineering Institute
GOC             -   Government of China
GNP             -   Gross National Product
HIPDC           -   Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
HAB             -   Henan Audit Bureau
HPEPB           -   Henan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
HPG             -   Henan Power Grid
IAEA            -    International Atomic Energy Agency
LRMC            -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MOE             -   Ministry of Energy
MOF             -   Ministry of Finance
MWREP           -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC            -   People's Construction Bank of China
SAM             -   State Audit Administration
SEIC            -   State Energy Investment Corporation
SPC             -   State Planning Commission
SWCEPDI         -   Southwest China Electric Power Design Institute
WREPERI         -   Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research
Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Loan and Proistt Summary
Borrowers          People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       Henan Provincial Electric Power Bureau (HPEPB)
Amount:             $180 million equivalent
Tormes             20 years, including five years grage, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlendina Termat   The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Government
to HPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement, with a 20-year
term, including five years grace and at the Bank's variable
interest rate. HPEPB will bear the foreign exchange risk
and the commitment charges.
Proiect Objectives
and Descritiont Principal project objectives are tot (i) alleviate the
acuto power shortage of a major load center in Central
China by providing additional generating capacity in an
onvironmentally and economically sound manner; (ii) support
the national policy of locating thermal power plants at
mine-mouths or close to coal mines; (iii) introduce up-to-
date methods for investment planning, tariff study, and
system operation; (iv) assist in transferring modern
technologies and construction/management practices for
large thermal power plants; (v) enhance institutional
development of HPEPB ay strengthening its organization
through staff training and introducing principles of
economic efficiency and pricing; (vi) provide technical
assistance in: project design and implementation; prudent
financial management; and efficient operation and
maintenance of the power system; and (vii) contribute to
further improvement of the environmental aspects of HPEPB's
thermal power stations, including a monitoring program.
The proposed project is located about 90 km west of
Zhangzhou in Henan province. The project would includet
(i) extension of the existing Yanshi Thermal power plant by
installing two 300 MW generating units; (ii) construction
of five 220 kV transmission lines (about 350 km long) with
associated substations; (iii) provision of technical
assiotance for project engineoring, a tariff study and a
tariff action plan for the Henan Power Grid (HPG)  (iv) a
monitoring program for environmental protection, and (v) a
training program for upgrading the technical, financial and
management skills of HPEPB staff.
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Benefit. and
Risks:           The project will help to relieve the power shortages in
Henan in the 1990s, thereby supporting planned industrial
growth and improved living standards for the population.
An economic analysis of the project, based on optimizing
the Henan power system has confirmed that there are no
better alternatives than the proposed project in meeting
future power demand. The extension of the existing Yanshi
power plant provides the most efficient and effective
method of augmenting base load capacity. Also, the project
will contribute to institutional development by
strengthening the managerial and technical capabilities of
HPEPB. The technical and economic feasibility of the
project has been well established. No major risks,
including environmental problems, are foreseen.
Construction risks are within reasonable limits and should
be manageable with the continuous supervision arrangements.
The economic risks, if any, should be minimal. The project
has been designed taking into account the requirement that
the environmental impact from operating the station not
exceed the internationally accepted norms. An
environmental monitoring program will be included in the
project. HPEPB will also replace the precipitators for the
existing 2x200 MW units with high efficiency electrostatic
precipitators.



Estimated Costs:                               Local    Foreign      Total
--   ($ million) -------
Civil works                                  44.1         6.4      50.5
Plant equipment and materials                57.4       159.9     217.3
Transmission system                          26.1         -        26.1
Environmental protection                      0.2         0.1       0.3
Training                                      1.3         1.0       2.3
Tariff study                                  0.5         -         0.5
Engineering and construction management    17.0           1.2      18.2
Base Cost                                146.6      168.6      315.2
Contingencies
Physical                                   14.6        8.4       23.0
Price                                      13.8        3.0       16.8
Total Pro1ect Cost la                    175.0      180.0      355.0
Interest during construction
IBRD loan                                   -         48.1       48.1
Local loan                                 56.5        -         56.5
Total Financin Reguired                  231.5      228.1      459.6
Proiect Financina Plan:
IBRD loan                                     -        180.0      180.0
SEIC loan                                   115.8       32.1      147.9
Provincial government loan                  115.7        16.0     131.7
Total                                    231.5      228.1      459.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
- _______-------- ($ million) --------------
Annual                          44.2    79.9    40.6    6.6        5.3      3.4
Cumulative                      44.2   124.1   164.7   171.3   176.6   180.0
Economic Rate of Return:         16 percent
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- 1 -
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE  ENERGY  SECTOR   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ......... .  1
A.   Overview  .  .  . . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .   .   .   .  1
B. Energy Sector Issuas  . ....... *.......                     4
C. Energy Sector Strategy        .. ......                      7
D. Bank Role in the Energy Sector                .              7
II   THE POWER SUBSECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
A.   Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
B. Institutions, Planning and Technology Transfer  . . .       10
C. Power Pricing . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     12
D. Subsector 8ssues and Strategy .. .. .13
E. Role of the Bank in the Power Subsector                     13
III. THE BENEFICIARY . . o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
A. Legal Status and Organization ...       .. ...15
B. Management    . . .     . . . .      . . .                  is 15
C. Staffing and Training & . a . . . . . .    .                16
D. Planning, Budgeting and Control . . . . . . . . . . .       16
E. Accounting           ..         ..      *    .      &       17
F. Auditnn  . . . . . . . . . . . .                            is 17
G. Electricity Tariffs . . .                                   19
H. Billing and Collections                           . . . .   19
I* Insurance a . . . . .         .                   . .  .   21
J. Distribution System . . . . ...            .. . .. ..  . .  21
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM   9999.   9999.9999    22
A. The Central China Power Grid   .9999999999999    22
B. The Henan Power Grid  ..................    22
C.   Load  Forecast   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..............  .   23
D. The Power Development Program (1991-2000)       . . .       25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
China in September 1988 and a post-appraisal mission in September 1991. The
report was prepared by V. Mastilovic (Task Manager), W. Cao (Senior Power
Engineer), B. Baratz (Principal Environmental Specialist), S. Kataoka (Senior
Power Engineer), n.E. Sun (Finanial Analyst), 0. Koenig (Economist), and K.C.
Ling (Consultant). Peer reviewers comprised: C.K. Chandran (Principal
Engineer), S. Shum (Senior Financial Analyst), and N. Anderson (Senior Project
Officer). The Acting Division Chief is B. Kafka and the Department Director
is S.J. Burki.



- ii -
Paxe No.
V.   TE  PROJECT       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
A. Project Objectives  .  .  . . . . . . .            . . .   26
B. Project Description . . . .  . . . .       .      . . .    26
C.   Cost  Estimate    .   . .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  29
D. Financing Plan  . .  . . . . . . . . . .... . . .   30
E.   Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .    .  .  .  31
F. Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
G. Disbursement   ...  . . . . . .  . . . . .   .  .  . . . . .   34
H. Monitoring and Reporting  . .# .. . .. . .   .  .  . . . . .  34
1. Environmental Considerations      . . . ... . . . .   34
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
A. Introduction.. . . . .36
B. Financial System  . ............. ...   .. ..   36
C. Past and Present Financial Performance. .       . . . .    36
D. Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . .       38
E. Future Finances  4..4...4.........                          39
VII.    JUSTIFICATION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
A. Need for the Project                                        42
B. Least Cost Studies                                          43
C. Economic Rate of Return .....          .43
D. Risks .    *    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   44
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
ANNEXES
1.   Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation, and Sales
in the Power Subsector  ....  . .....  .  .  .    ..  444......  46
2.   Growth Index for Electricity Generation and Primary
Energy  Demand   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  47
3.   Electricity Consumption by Sectors  . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
4.   Major Ongoing Hydzo and Thermal Power Projects  . . . . . .    49
5.   Performance Indicators for Henan Power System . . .  . . .     51
6.   PPEPB Staffing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
7.   Planning, Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaus . .      53
8.   HPEPB Electricity Tariffs  .             ....    56
9.   Major Generating Facilities in Henan Province                  57
10.   Energy Consumption by Category of Consumer      . . . .        60
11.   Power Development Program of HPG (1991-2000)  . . . . . . .    61
12.   System Demand and Energy Balance of HPG . . . . . . . . . .    62
13.   Training Program  ......................    63
14.   Action Plan for Power Tariff Structure Improvements            70
15.   Terms of Reference for the Tariff Study . . . . .              72
16.   Terms of Reference for Consulting Services  . o   .            74
17.   Project Cost Estimates  . . * . . *   . . . . . . . . . . ..   76
18.   Procurement Schedule  . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . ... . .   77



- lli -
ANNXES (cont'd)
19.   Key Dateo of Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .   78
20.   Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   79
21.   Air Quality Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   80
22.   Summary of Environmental Mitigating Measures  . . . . . , . .   81
23.   Environmental Monitoring Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   83
24.   Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus  . . . . .   89
25.   Annual Financial Statementso ...  . .    . . . .              92
26.   Calculation of Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . .  115
27.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File . .  119
1RARTS
1.   Organization Chart of MSE
2.   Organization Chart of SEIC
3.   Organization Chart of HPEPB
4.   Project Implementation Schedule
IiP
IBED 21114R Yanshi Thermal Power Project



CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1       China has made remarkable progress in developing its energy
resources over the last four decades and became the third largest producer of
commercial energy in the world. In that period, the output of coal has
increased at an average annual rate of 9.1 percent, crude oil production at
19.3 percent, and electricity generation at 13.1 percent. In 1990, the coun-
try's primary commercial energy supply amounted to 727 million tons of oil
equivalent (toe)   Coal is the most important source of commercial energy,
accounting for about 74 percent of the total. Oil accounts for 19 percent of
the total and provides about 7 percent of the country's export earnings.
Hydroelectric power (4.6 percent), natural gas (2 percent), and small quanti-
ties of shale oil and geothermal power make up the balance. Noncommercial
energy, equivalent to about one-third of commercial energy production, is very
important in rural China.
1.2       In 1990, China's final consumption of commercial energy was esti-
mated to be about 686 million toe. The largest consumer of commercial energy
is the industrial sector (62 percent), followed by households (24 percent),
services (9 percent), and agriculture (5 percent). About 20 percent of oil
and 2 percent of coal production currently are exported. Coal and its by-
products meet 70 percent of the fuel requirements for industry and power gen-
eration, provide 60 percent of the raw materials for chemicals, and satisfy
80 percent of the commercial energy needs of househol's.  The country also ie
the third largest consumer of commercial energy in the world. Still, energy
consumption per capita is low--about 0.6 toe, or one-third of the world aver-
age.
Energy Resources
1.3       Coal.  China has large coal deposits with recoverable reesarves of
about 900 billion tons, of which 30 percent are proven. There are now twelve
provinces and autonomous regions with more than 10 billion tons of coal
reservesl Shanxi and Inner Mongolia each have reserves of over 200 billion
tons. In 1990, the country produced 1.1 billion tons of raw coal, of which it
exported only 16 million tons. By the year 2000, China aims to produce 1.4
billion tons of coal a year. Coal is produced in many provinces, and the
amount and quality may vary. The best quality coals are found in North China,
which is also the region with the largest coal surplus. However, insufficient
transport capacity makes it extremely difficult to move coal from mines in
North China to the large consuming centers in Southeast, Central, and East
China. The safety and environmental problems associated with coal minirg and
utilization also are serious (paras. 1.17 and 1.19).



- 2 -
1.4       Hydroelectric Potential.  China is rich in water resources and has a
long tradition of harnessing them for energy and other uses. The country's
hydroelectric potential is estimated at 1,900 TWh a year, but only about
9 percent of it has been developed. Most of the potential is located in four
major river basins in the Southwest (70 percent) and Northwest (12 percent),
about 1,500 km away from the main demand centers. The long gestation period
for hydroelectric projects also has inhibited the more rapid development and
utilization of hydroelectric resources.
1.5       Crude Oil.  China's ultimately recoverable reserves of crude oil
have been estimated at some 80 billion tons, of which 16 percent are proven.
The country produced 138 million tons of crude oil in 1990, and the target
output for the year 2000 is 200 million tons. In view of the natural decline
in production from existing aging fields, it seems unlikely that this produc-
tion target can be met. China'e: refining capacity is the sixth largest in the
world and allows it to produce a relatively high share of high and medium
distillates.
1.6       Natural Gas.  China's rnatural gas resources are estimated at 33 tri-
llion cubic meters (m3), of which 2.6 percent are proven. About 50 percent of
the gas produced is nonassociated gas. In 1990, China produced 15 billion m3
of natural gas.   The target output for the year 2000 is 25 billion m3.  Most
of the gas is used as feedstock for fertilizers and petrochemicals.
1.7       Biomass.  Firewood and crop stalks account for 57 percent of the 224
million toe of rural energy supplies. About 70 percent oE all fuelwood is
used for cooking. Some areas of the country have been suffering from serious
deforestation, stemming primarily from fuelwood collection and land clearing
for various purposes. The estimated offtake of fuelwood is 230 million tons
(91 million toe), or 2.6 times the sustainable amount. The Government is
taking various measures to address this problem, such as encouraging more
efficient use of wood, planting trees, improving management of natural forests
and wood lands, making greater use of charcoal, and subatituting coal for
wood. China also produces many agricultural residues which are used as fuel.
1.8       Nuclear Energy.  Known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to
sustain 15,000 MW of nuclear power capacity for 30 years. In 1991/92, China
plans to commission Qinshan nuclear power plant (300 MW), located near
Shanghai.  In 1992/93, Daya Bay nuclear power plant (2x900 MW) shoul.0 'e com-
missioned; 70 percent of its output is intended for nearby Hong Kong. The
construction of a few additional plants is planned before the year 2000, pri-
marily in regions which lack coal and hydroelectric resources.
1.9       Other Energv Resources.  Other energy resources play a small role in
energy supply and are used mostly in remote areas. Geothermal energy has been
found in more than 3,000 locations covering nearly all provinces and autono-
mous regions. The Yangbajing geothermal power plant, located in Tibet, sup-
plies about 50 GWh a year, or about 20 percent of the electricity consumption
in Lhasa's power system. Although wind and solar energy have promising pros-
pects (e.g., wind in Inner Mongolia), they are not expected to affect the
overall supply of energy significantly during the next two decades. Unoffi-
cial estimates of oil shale suggest that deposits are large, but little is
exploited because of lack of technology.



-3-
Insetitutio   of the Energy Sector
1.10      In 1988, the Ministry 's    :gy (MOE) was established to manage and
develop the energy sector. Its foramation was intended to reduce the duplica-
tion and overlapping responsibilitei  .f the former ministries in charge of
coal, petroleum, and nuclear power. MOE also was given responsibility for
electric power, formerly held by the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric
Power (MWREP). The new ministry has primary responsibility for planning and
establishing policieo and regulations to promote the rational development and
use of energy resources. Under MOE are various companies and administrations
responsible for operations in individual energy industries. Chart 1 shows the
organization of MOE.
1.11      The State Energy Investment Corporation (SEIC) was established dur-
ing the same period to handle project financing in the coal and electricity
nidustrios. SEIC is responsible for onlending funds for projects of national
importance and representing the Government in the joint financing of projects
with other parties; it is expected to operate as a revenue earning entity.
Petroleum and nuclear power investments are covered under separate corpora-
tions. Both MOE and SEIC operate under the purview of the State Planning
Commission (SPC), which has ultimate authority for project approval, budget
allocations, and financing arrangements.
Enerty investments
1.12      Most investments in enetgy supply go to support projects with long
gestation periods. Energy investments for the 1980s were planned based on an
expected economic growth rate of 7.5 percent a year. Actual economic growth
rates exceeded this target by an average of 2.5 percent a year, (4.5 percent
in peak years). Also, industrial growth far exceeded what had been planned.
The discrepancy between projected and actual growth rates has exacerbated the
energy shortages that already existed at the start of the decade. China faces
an additional difficulty in developing its relatively abundant energy
resources, as many of the resources are located far from consumption areas and
must be tr& sported over long distances at high cost. In recent years, the
Government I7,J thus given priority to shifting resources into bottleneck sec-
tors such as energy and transport.
1.13      In 1989, China dedicated 3.4 perc..nt and 1.3 percent of its Gross
National Product (GNP), respectively, to develop infrastructure for energy
production and transportation. It invested a total of Y 44.6 billion ($12
billion) in energy supply, representing 29 percent of state capital construc-
tion. In the early 1980s, energy supply investments accounted for 21 percent
of state capital construction. The shares of power and petroleum investments
have increased s4nce 1988 to 62 percent and 22 percent, respectively. State
coal investment has declined (to 16 percent) but this decline has been offset
by an increase in investment by coal collectives. About 20 percent of the
investment requirements of the Chinese energy sector are met by foreign loans
and direct investments. Direct foreign investment has financed most offshore
petroleum exploration to date, although recent trends indicate a decline in
direct investment for this purpose. On the other hand, there has been an
increase in suppliers credit and bilateral lending for the petrochemical and
power industries.



B. EnerRg Sector Issues
1.14      In addition to the already noted energy shortages, the main energy
sector ivouea are: (i) the high energy intensity of the Chinese economy;
(ii) the dominance of coal use and associated environmental problems;
(JAI) the nneed to improve scale and technology in energy industries; (iv) the
:I.nadequA.y of eniergy pricing policies; and (v) the weak investment funding
oystem.
Intensity of Ener y_Use
i.1l      In 1983, China's consumption of commercial energy was estimated at
1.5 toe per $1,OOu of GNP. That high a level of energy intensity was due to
the emphasis placed on heavy industry, the small scale of industrial units,
and the raw materials and technologies employed. In the late 1970s, the Gov-
ernment began to address the inefficiencies in the economy by insLituting
regulations on energy use, establishing conservation centers to provide tech-
nical assistance, and allocating a larger share of investment funds for indus-
trial modernization, particularly for projects which contributed to energy
conservation. The elasticity of energy consumption with respect to GNP
growth, whtich averaged 1.74 from 1952 to 1977, was reduced to 0.5 in the
'980s. In 1989, the country's energy intensity was 1.1 toe, a 27 percent
reduction from the 1980 level. It is estimated that technical and operational
improvements and the closure of some inefficient small-scale plants are
responsible for about 70 percent of the energy savings. and the shift in the
output mix of the economy for the other 30 pere;--t.  The efficiency gains have
been evenly spread over heavy and light industry. Despite these 4.mprovements,
China's energy intensity is still high. A target of the Eighth Five-Year Plan
(1991-95) is to reduce it further by 10 percent.  More energy could be saved
by increasing the scale of operations, employing more efficient operatirng
practices, and using more modern technologies in energy intensive industries.
The Dominance of Coal and Related Environmental Problems
1.16      Unlike the situation in most countries, the electric power subsector
is not the largest consumer of coal in China. Industrial use of coal is much
greater. The growth of coal consumption in the household sector also has been
strong, due to urban population growth and the increasing use of coal in rural
areas. Moreover, there is considerable latent energy demand in the residen-
tial sector, primarily for space heating, as present heating arrangements meet
only minimal needs.
1.17      Many of the environmental problems in China are related to the coun-
try's heavy use of coal and the dispersed, small scale application of coal in
industry and households. Environmental problems occur at every stage of the
coal chain: mining and disposal of mine waste, coal washing, transport and
handling, processing and combustion, and ultimately ash disposal. Water pol-
lution occurs both in mining regions and in dense urban areas, caused by prob-
lems in disposing of coal mining and processing wastes and the coal ash
remaining after combustion. In many large cities, ambient concentrations of
particulates and sulfur dioxide are very high. The concentration of particul-
ates is the most serious problem; it is largely related to the extensive use
of coals, their high ash content (20-30 percent), and the often incomplete



-5-
combustion due to poor matching of coal qualities to boilers u(id.  The aver-
age sulfur content of the coal is relatively low (in the rai,ge of 1.2- .7 per-
cent), but because coal is used so extensively sulfur emissions aref -Incrcas-
ing. Moreover, some provinces use coal which has a very high sulVtll contont.
1.18      The environmental implications of continued increases iu croal uss
are sobering. They highlight the need for stronger regulatory enforvtciao.nt and
more resources devoted to investments to conserve coal and mitigatcf : t£ envi-
ronmental effects.  In addition, mora resources should go to the exrax::on
and development of cleaner fuels. In many industrialized countrie&, oil and
natural gas have replaced coal in households.  At the present tinm, hlo\wcVr9
China has limited scope for substituting cleaner and often more cost: effective
fuels in industrial and residential applications.  The country has ilsuffi-
cient confirmed natural gas resources; its production of oil is increaslagly
absorbed by transport and petrochemicals; and its large hydropower resources
are located far away from major consuming centers.
Scale and Technology in Energy Industries
1.19      Coal Subsector.  Over half of the coal produced in Chills eo;wes  rcom
small-scale mining operations which use traditional technologies stuch as hand
hewing or drilling and blasting.  A major problem common to coal minec Ji
worker safety. China has considerable potential for developing mediums-size
mines capable of supporting investments in semimechanized or mechanized sys-
tems, safety equipment, storage and handling systems, and washery plants,
reducing safety and environmental problems while improving the quantity and
quality of output. In the larger centrally-controlled mines, productivity and
safety could be increased by making greater use of mechanized long wall .ys-
tems and employing more economic designs for mines and washeries.
1.20      Electric Power Subsector.  Large-scale power development in China is
beneficial from the standpoint of both energy conservation and enviromiental
protection.  Modern power plants, with unit capacities of 300 lW and 600 MW,9
are about 10 percent more efficient than smaller plants and consume about 150
grams of coal less per kWh. This means that the faster the pace of electric
power development in China, the sooner the country will be able to reduce its
consumption of coal to meet energy demand. The boilers of the modern utili-
ties also support better pollution control equipment, raising the efficiency
of particulate removal.
1.21      Petroleum Subsector.  In the petroleum subsector, there is a need to
employ more modern equipment and technology at all stages of exploration and
development; seismic survey and related data processing, exploratory drilling,
and enhanced oil recovery in order to increase production from aging fields.
Improvements in operating and maintenance practices also are needed to
increase the efficiency of the subsector. Moreover, better management of the
oil and gas reservoirs would help to maximize ultimate recovery rates.
Enerav Pricing
1.22      Average energy prices have been rising in recent years because of
the broadening of the free market. Coal prices have increased rapidly during
the last five years, largely because the market has expanded to as much as



50 percent of sales, depending on location. Indeed, free market prices for
coal in East China are at or above the level of international prices. The
administered price of coal, although it has been raised in recent years, is
still below domestic supply costs; just as importantly, the price structure
does not fully reflect differences in quality, such as calorific value and ash
content. The dual pricing system (para. 1.25) creates various distortions;
some high calorific value coals are still underpriced and may not be directed
to their most economic uses.
1.23      While the average price levels of some light petroleum products are
close to international prices, average prices of crude oil and heavy fuel oil
are substantially lower. The pace of domestic oil price adjustments have
remained slow, while extraction costs have risen sharply. Producer prices for
natural gas are also distorted and should be adjusted to provide an incentive
to find and develop more resources.
1.24      Electricity prices are largely based on tariffs which do not reflect
the differential cost of service arising from consumption during peak load
periods and power distribution at various voltage levels. In 1987/88, revenue
enhancements were introduced in order to improve funding of power development.
In particular, a "new plant, new price" policy guarantees that power prices
will be sufficient to allow the power entities to fully service the debt on
newly commissioned projects. As a result of this policy, electricity prices
are expected to rise substantially. Already a multitiered price system is
emerging in some provinces; while most consumers are charged just a fraction
of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of supply, some industrial users are
charged prices, at the margin, that are well above the LRMC (para. 2.14).
1.25      The recent increases in the price of coal and electricity and the
initiation of energy rationing are helping to promote conservation and should
positively influence investment and operating decisions in the sector. How-
ever, the full benefits of these actions will not be realized as long as a
dual pricing system for energy is not abandoned. Under this system, one set
of prices applies to goods allocated under the plan and another set of prices
applies to goods distributed by the market. Because allocated prices tend to
be significantly lower than free market prices, the system encourages consum-
ers to use fuels covered by allocated prices regardless of their suitability.
Similarly, the system encourages energy suppliers to focus on markets offering
free market prices and to neglect the economically legitimate requirements of
other markets which offer allocated prices. For example, the low prices for
town gas inhibit investments for supplying gas in forms suitable for household
energy (natural gas, coal-based gas, and process gas) in an environmentally
sound manner. The existing price structure still does not provide all neces-
sary incentives for investment to improve coal quality and for electricity
consumers to shift their demand to off-peak hours or to be connected to higher
voltage.
1.26      China needs strong price incentives and rigorous enforcement stan-
dards to encourage consumers to conserve energy. It must continue its program
to raise energy prices, close the gap between administered and free market
prices for coal, and begin to correct the most serious distortions in the
pricing structures for coal, gas, and electricity. Energy price reform based
on full recovery of supply costs also will help to remove anomalies in the



-7-
funding of energy investments. The Government remains committed to its over-
all price reform program. For example, in the last several months, the Gov-
erinent has implemented significant price increases and reduced the subsidies
in a number of basic commodities, such as grains, cement, and steel. It also
indicated its readiness to abandon dual pricing in coal and electricity.
Investment Funding System
1.27      China has taken decisive steps recently in energy conservation,
environmental protection, and fuel diversification. Improvement; in the scale
and technology of energy supply systems have multiplied in recent years, and
the share of funds channeled into the energy sector is now approaching accept-
able levels. However, the funding of investments has suffered as a result of
distorted pricing policies that led to a haphazard and compartmentalized mobi-
lization of resources, and an inefficient development of energy sources. To
reduce financial pressures on the central government, responsibility for fund-
ing of energy investments gradually has been shifting to the provinces, with
mixed results. In the coal subsector, local production now exceeds state
production but is not operating at the scale required to achieve higher effi-
ciency or improve safety. Because of insufficient electric power supplies,
some local enterprises are making their own investments in power plants. The
investment approva'l system actually biases local investment in favor of less
efficient small-scale plants, as these plants do not require clearance or any
financial contribution by the central government.
C. Energy Sector Strategy
1.28      The Government of China (GOC) is working to eliminate energy short-
ages in an environment of rapid economic growth. The Government's principal
objectives in the energy sector are to: (a) accelerate the expansion of elec-
tric power and oil/gas production; (b) expand and imp7.ove the scale of coal
production; (c) increase the efficiency and change the forms of coal utiliza-
tion; (d) minimize the environmental impact of energy use; (e) rationalize
energy prices and investment funding; and (f) encourage the transfer of modern
know-how and technology in energy industries.
1.29      Allowing the power subsector a larger share in final energy consump-
tion will help to modernize the Chinese economy, reduce overall energy inten-
sities, and curtail pollution through the harnessing of hydropower, more effi-
cient technologies, and larger-scale plants. The same holds true for the oil
and natural gas subsectors, both of which yield cleaner, more efficient fuels
than coal. The continued development of coal mining is an inescapable neces-
sity but it must occur under conditions of higher efficiency, safety, and
environmental acceptability.
D. Bank Role in the Energy Sector
1.30      The Bank has supported nine projects in electric power, five in
petroleum (including one g,s project), and one in coal. In all three subsec-
tors, the objectives have been to support technology transfer, modern manage-
ment practices, and the development of efficient, large-scale energy produc-
tion. Through its sector work and project-related technical assistance, the
Bank has assisted in studies to enhance improvements in energy pricing and



- 8 -
investment policies. The power-specific aspects of the Government's strategy
and the role of the Bank are covered in paras. 2.17-2.18.
1.31      With the Bank's assistance, the Chinese have done a good job in
evaluating the economic costs of electric power and coal and in suggesting
approaches for gradual price reform. With regard to electricity, LRHC and
target tariffs were established for East China in 1988. Since then, the Bank
has sponsored the formulation of action plans and adapted them to the specific
conditions of each regional power grid, with the objective of promoting their
execution under repeater projects. An action plan for power pricing reform in
Henan is included under the proposed project (para. 5.16). For coal, the
Chinese have set pricing guidelines for various types of coal nationwide, but
the recent surge in inflation has prevented the Government from moving deci-
sively along these lines. However, plans for a large increase in administered
coal prices are still alive and the Bank will continue to promote the formula-
tion and execution of a plan to rationalize the level and structure of coal
prices, with special attention to the most sensitive coal users.
1.32      A Coal Transport Study, being conducted ;ointly by the Bank and
various Chinese institutes, will develop a model to identify optimal invest-
wznts in infrastructure to move coal more efficiently, taking into consider-
ation quality requirements and the impact of more efficient utilization in
major consuming areas. A Coal Utilization Study has evaluated options to
improve coal use and reduce its environmental impact both in industry and
households. In regard to the petroleum subsector, two seminars have been
organized in China over the past five years--one on gas utilization and ano-
ther on petroleum subsector management. Improving the planning of investments
and operations for the power subsector has been the focus of many Bank-spon-
sored activities (paras. 2.11 and 2.19).
1.33      Future Bank operations in the energy sector will continue to support
rational energy development and technology transfer, energy efficiency and
conservation, and improved environmental management. Through both project and
sector work, the Bank continues to encourage policies which provide the proper
incentives for sustainable energy development and conservation. Finally, the
Bank will continue to promote modern enterprise management, greater autonomy
and accountability, as well as improvements in the regulatory framework of the
sector.



- 9 -
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.1       China is the fourth largest producer of electricity in the world.
In 1990, the country had a total installed capacity of 135 GW, 74 percent
based on thermal power and 26 percent based on hydropower. That same year it
generated 618 TWh of electricity, of which 492 TWh was from thermal. Plant
use and network losses accounted for 6.9 and 8.0 percent of generation,
respectively. Fuel consumption in thermal plants has been reduced to about
400 gram of standard coal per kWh. These levels of electricity generation,
losses, and fuel consumption are close to those in industrialized countries.
Power is mostly distributed through 16 major grids, 13 of which exceed 1 GW in
capacity and account for about 90 percent of total capacity. By the end of
1990, the total length of the extra high voltage transmission lines reached
7,302 km and the capacity of substations amounted to 20.7 GVA.
2.2       The Government's rural electrification policy emphasizes the devel-
opment of local energy resources. Therefore, as much as possible, mini hydro-
power development is encouraged in isolated areas. In 1989, mini-hydro, small
thermal, and diesel generating sets had a total installed capacity of 19 GW.
Mini-hydro plants alone had a capacity of 12.4 GW and an annual generation of
34.3 TWh. The networks in rural areas are made up of 1,990,000 km of 110 kV
lines, and 4,020,000 km of low-voltage lines (35 kV and below). These net-
works have a transformer capacity of 85.9 GVA at high voltage and 142.5 GVA at
low voltage. Approximately 94 percent of townships and 85 percent of villages
are electrified.
2.3       The growth of installed capacity, electricity generation, and sales
since 1949 is depicted in Annex 1. Annex 2 shows the historical trend of
electricity generation, primary energy demand, and the GNP. The target of
quadrupling the GNP between 1980 and the year 2000 should result in average
growth of 7.0 percent a year for power demand. On this basis, the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1986-90) called for an increase in generating capacity of
about 35 GW (8 GW from hydropower) with an additional 120 GW planned between
1990 and 2000. Power generation capacity expansion during the period 1986-90
met the plan objectives for hydropower and surpassed those for thermal power
by 80 percent. Various steps are being taken to satisfy power demand. Large
thermal power stations are being constructed mainly near ports and major coal
mines in Shanxi, Heilongjiang, Henan, Shaanxi, and Shandong. Major hydroelec-
tric stations are planned at the middle and upper reaches of the valleys of
the Yellow River, Yangtze River, and Hongshui River. Two nuclear power plants
are being constructed in Guangdong and %hejiang Provinces (para 1.8). A
500 kV transmission network is being built to integrate regional grids. The
first high-voltage direct-current transmission link was commissioned in 1989
to transfer hydropower from Gezhouba in Hubei Province to Shanghai.
2.4       In 1990, China consumed 525 TWh of electricity; 69.4 percent was
consumed by industry, 17.3 percent by agriculture including tural household,
2.0 percent by transportation/communications, and 11.3 percent by municipal
and residential users. Details of electricity consumption by sectors are



- 10 -
given in Annex 3. Average per capita consumption in 1990 reached nearly
550 kWh; household use was about 85 kWh in cities and 20 kWh in rural araas.
2.5       Between 1986 and 1990, electricity demand increased faster than
generating capacity. As a result, power shortages reached about 20 percent of
industrial electricity requirements, which translated into the idling of
industrial capacity for one or two days a week. Electricity is still allo-
cated through quotas based on priorities set by local and central authorities
ana demands for new connections are closely screened; still, power cuts are
frequent. The rapid growth of demand can be attributed both to the verv high
economic growth and to the increasing share of electricity in commercial
energy requirements: 13 percent in 1970, 18 percent in 1980, possibly 27
percent by the year 2000. Since 1986, residential, manufacturing, and trans-
portation showed the highest growth rates: 20 percent for residential uses
due to income growth and 19 percent for transportation due to railway electri-
fication. The manufacturing sector is already a large electricity consumer
and is expected to maintain its share in the future. Notwithstanding con-
certed efforts at energy conservation, the growth of power supply should not
be allowed to fall behind GNP growth. As economic growth is only targeted at
6 percent a year under the Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plans, the power output
is planned to grow at the commensurate rate of 5.8 percent a year to 1,100 TWh
in the year 2000; however, such a figure may prove to be too conservative.
Indeed, a faster pace of power system development would be justified in order
to accelerate the retirement of the less efficient and more polluting small
coal-fired plants.
B. Institutions, Planning. and Technology Transfer
2.6       Institutions.  MOE oversees all strategic aspects of power develop-
ment (para. 1.10), including five regional power administ:ations which coordi-
nate the operations of the power systems and prepare long-term development
programs for the approval of MOE. There are 19 provincial and municipal power
bureaus under the regional administrations operating as part of the regional
power systems and eight other bureaus which operate in isolation. A number of
investigation and design institutions are affiliated with MOE, as are the 16
construction companies involved primarily in building power projects. Several
universities, colleges, and research and training centers also fall under the
auspices of MOE.
2.7       The Huaneng International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) was
created in 1985 as a financing arm of the former MWREP. It was designed to
attract foreign capital and technology for power generating plants located
mainly in the open cities of the coast. Unlike the provincial power bureaus
(the beneficiaries of multilateral financing), HIPDC has a mandate to raise
funds directly from the international financial market. The HIPDC has been
active in tapping bilateral and suppliers' credits, and a few commercial bank
loans. As a result, the power subsector in China has claimed a significant
share of the country's external financing in recent years (Annex 4).
2.8       Separate corporations also have been created for developing major
hydroelectric achemes. These new institutional arrangements are beneficial
because such corporations are allowed to maximize their efficiency through
specialization and economies of scale and to reinvest their earnings into



- 11 -
future power development. However, in order to achieve maximum efficiency,
this division of labor creates a need for coordination of investments and
operations among the various power entities in the same region, including
transfer pricing arrangements.
2.9       The power industry in China employs about 1.8 million people.  Of
these employees, fewer than 30Z have received formal education beyond the
junior secondary level. As a result, there is a shortage of trained manpower,
particularly trained technical and administrative staff. MOE has initiated a
long-term program to upgrade the skills of the staff at all levels. The pro-
gram is carried out primarily by the provincial power bureaus and regional
power administrations. The trainir3 component of the proposed project is
designed to support Lhe MOE program and assist in developing manpower to meet
the project's human resource needs (para. 3.6).
2.10      Power System Planning.  Power system planning in China is the
responsibility of the Planning Department of MOE, which reviews the plans
proposed by the regional power administrations and bureaus. For the expansion
of thermal power plants and transmission networks, the research, planning and
designs are carried out by the regional electric power design institutes. For
major hydroelectric projects, the research, planning, and design are carried
out by the regional hydroelectric investigation and design institutes and the
MOE's Water Resources and Hydropower Planning Institute.
2.11      As planning for China's power development becomes increasingly com-
plex, there is a compelling need for Chinese planners to adopt state-of-the-
art system planning techniques. These techniques are particularly important
for evaluating large-scale projects which have long lead times and for making
decisions about generation mix, power plant location, and grid configuration.
Least-cost generation planning techniques were first introduced for thermal
generation in East China through technical assistance from the International
Atomic Energy Agency.l/ Under the Planning Support and Special Studies
Project (Credit 1835-CHA), least cost planning techniques are being introduced
for hydroelectric generation and transmission network expansion plans for the
Sichuan and East China power systems. Training in the use of these techniques
is being provided to staff of the concerned power bureaus and the Water
Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute (WREPERI). These
staff, in turn, will be able to assist other power bureaus and regional power
administrations.
2.12      Modern Technologv Transfer.  For China to achieve its ambitious
goals for increasing power production, the development and transfer of appro-
priate modern technologies will be crucial. Technology transfer is very
important for thermal power plants, where increases in the steam parameters
and size of units can reduce net fuel consumption. Since thermal generation
from coal-fired units is expected to provide about three quarters of total
generation until the end of the century, reducing the amount of fuel consumed
for power generation would reduce pressures on both the supply and transport
of coal, as well as on the environment. The Bank is helping to provide state-
of-the-art technology for the construction and operation of large coal-fired
1/   Under the Bank's Second Power Project (Loan 2493-CHA).



- 12 -
units (300 MW and 600 MW), including environmental assessments and impact
mitigation. Technology transfer is also needed for large hydroelectric proj-
ects, particularly in connection with the interpretation of geological data,
the design of sophisticated structures and large underground works, the selec-
tion of equipment, efficient construction management, and environmental
assessments. Assistance in technology transfer is being provided under ongo-
ing projects and will be ontinued under the proposed project (paras. 5.11-
5.18).
C. Power Pricing
2.13      China's current ele'-tricity pricing system has evolved from reforms
begun in the mid-1980s and strengthened during the last three years. The
current prices faced by consumers represent a complex combination of "old
system" rates based on the tariff structure of 1976, and a new set of rates
and surcharges for above-quota allocation, which are basically designed to
improve cost recovery, especially for reinvestment. Recent reforms have in-
cluded both reforms in the "old" tariff, and the development and expansion of
the role of the new set of rates and surcharges. "Old system" base rates were
increased by 57 percent during 1986-90, and, adding in a new across-the-board
surcharge, "old system" rates now average from 10 fen to 17 fen/kWh, depending
upon the region. The "new rates" are generally 20-30 fen/kWh, or twice as
high as the base rates. A key component is the price charged for electricity
from new generating plants, under tho "new plant, new prices" policy enacted
in 1988 (para. 1.24). Under this policy, prices for power from new plants,
which are largely financed by loans, are set at significantly higher levels to
adequately cover the debt service of the power utilities.
2.14      As the role of the "new rates" increases with system expansion, the
combined average rates continues to increase. However, there remain consider-
able distortions in the structure of electricity prices. Further, the pre-
vailing system is far too complicated, and not sufficiently transparent. The
low "old" tariff to many customers provides little incentive for efficiency
improvement, while new industrial customers are charged at a level which may
exceed LRMC. The GOC has made commitments to confront these issues. It has
announced its intention to unify old and new system rates into single, more
transparent tariffs, and has taken concrete measures in this direction. In-
troduction of peak/off-peak and seasonal rates has been expanding. The Gov-
ernment also is eliminating certain preferential prices which have existed for
some very electricity intensive heavy industries.
2.15      The Bank is engaged in a very active dialogue with the Government on
the topic of power pricing. The financial covenants under Bank-financed pro-
jects have long supported improvaments in power price levels, and collabora-
tive work on tariffs is now reinforcing the corrective actions already taken
by GOC to adjust prices. In a specific effort to support a systematic over-
haul of power prices by the Government, the Bank financed a study covering
Eaet China under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA). The
primary recommendations of this study--to bring tariffs more in line with the
LRMC--are gaining broad acceptance and are being used in formulating specific
pricing reforms for power systems with predominantly coal-fired gerneration. A
specific power pricing study is included in this proposed project. This study



- 13 -
should lead to the definition of a concrete action plan to gradually improve
the tariff structure of the Henan province (para. 5.16)
D. Subsector Issues and Strateay
2.16      China faces the following major issues in the power subsector:
(i) acute power shortages; (ii) inadequate power pricing and investment fund-
ing; (iii) protracted implementation periods for large projects; (iv) environ-
mental impacts of power supply; (v) weak interconnection within regional power
systems; (vi) scarcity of skilled manpower; and (vii) outdated methods for
planning, operation, and finarcial management.
2.17      The Government's basic policy for the power subsector is to modern-
ize it, expand it, and increase its efficiency at a rate sufficient to meet
the requirements of industrial development and improve the living conditions
of the population. This policy translates into the following objectives:
(a) expand coal-fired thermal capacity at mie-mouths or near ports and load
centers in order to reduce the rail transportation requirements and use of
lower grade coal in urban centers; (b) replace small- and medium-size thermal
units with larger, less polluting, and more efficient units; (c) accelerate
the pace of hydroelectric development; (d) construct extra high-voltage trans-
mission lines; (e) introduce a more rational pricing system; and (f) adopt
modern techniques in project design, environmental impact mitigation, and
system planning.
E. Role of the Bank in the Power Subsector
2.18      The Bank's participation in the power subsector in China has partic-
ularly focused on institution building and the transfer of appropriate modern
technology. The Bank has supported the Government's sectoral strategy through
sector work, policy dialogue, and a series of lending operations in associa-
tion with the regional power bureaus. The Bank has helped to introduce state-
of-the-art system planning methodologies which identify cost-effective, sus-
tainable development policies for the power subsector and, presently, it is
participating in the formulation of the Five-Year Plans in Sichuan and East
China (para. 2.11).  Repeater projects allow the Bank to assist the Government
in applying power tariff reforms based on the findings of earlier pricing
studies (para. 2.15). Through the Second Beilungang Thermal Power Project
(Loan 2955-CHA), the Bank is extending its policy dialogue to cover the reor-
ganization, management, and regulation of power bureaus.
2.19      Since China has become a member of the World Bank Group, the Bank
has helped to finance nine large power generation projects (600 MW -
3,300 MW)--five thermal and three hydro operations--and one high-voltage tran-
smission project. Through these operations, the Bank has successfully (i)
introduced international competitive bidding (ICB) for civil works and equip-
ment; (ii) supported the transfer of modern technology in project construction
and management; (iii) helped to improve the efficiency of pollution abatement
equipment; (iv) promoted the integration of a regional power system in East
China; (v) supported the development of master plans for modern distribution
networks; and (vi) promoted operational efficiency and prudent financial man-
agement. Under the Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC), the Bank assisted in
supervising and review'ng a feasibility study for the Three Gorges Project.



- 14 -
2.20      Most of the ongoing power projects financed by the Bank are being
implemented in a satisfactory manner, on schedule, and within budget. The
first power operation, Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA), is virtu-
ally completed. The second power operation, the 500 kV Xuzhou-Shanghai Trans-
mission Project (Loan 2493-CHA), was put into service, as scheduled. The
Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA) is also progressing satisfactori-
ly. Several problems were encountered early in the implementation of the
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2775-CHA):  project management was weak,
and the original Government allocation was too low to cover large cost in-
creases associated with the resettlement component. Among measures to resolv'a
these problems, the Bank agreed to revise the loan allocation and finance the
importation of materials needed for resettlement; project management is also
being strengthened. The project is now back on schedule. The construction of
the Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387-CHA) started successfully in Sep-
tember 1991. The Daguanba Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412-CHA and CR 2305-
CHA) was approved just recently. Furthermore, the Bank is involved in financ-
ing three thermal power projects--Beilungang (Loan 2706-CHA), Wujing (Loan
2852-CHA), and Beilungang Extension (Loan 2955-CHA). The Beilungang project
encountered delays early on due to procurement p-oblems and poor coordination
among the suppliers of various islands. These problems have now been
resolved, and construction is almost back on schedule. To minimize problems
of coordination among suppliers for the Wujing project, procurement was car-
ried out using a single responsibility contract.
2.21      The lessons learned from the previous power projects in China have
been taken into account in preparing the proposed project. These lessons
include: (i) improving procurement and contractual arrangements; and (ii) en-
hancing the role of project management and the use of engineering consultants.
Particular attention was given to the further improvement of the environmental
aspects of the projects. A study on pollutiou control is being carried out in
China financed under the Japanese Yen Grant Facility in order to minimize air
pollution from thermal power plants in the coastal regions.



- 15 -
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.1       The beneficiary of the proposed loan would be the Henan Provincial
Electric Power Bureau (HPEPB). This would be the first Bank loan to be onlent
to HPEPB.
A. Legal Status and Organization
3.2       HPEPB is a state-owned enterprise operating under the direction of
the Central China Electric Power Administration (CCEPA). The bureau falls
under the jurisdiction of MOE and is a legal entity with contractual and self-
accounting capabilities. The Government has assigned it responsibility for
executing within its jurisdiction the program for power generation, capital
investment, power sales and tariffs, employment and payroll, materials con-
sumption, and tax. A charter for HPEPB has been issued which is acceptable to
the Bank.
3.3       HPEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MOE.  Reporting
to '.he director are four deputy directors, accountable for, respectively:
capital construction; production, power supply, and load dispatching; adminis-
tration, including labor and personnel; and management, including finance,
general arfairs, and training. The planning, security, and auditing divisions
report directly to the director. In addition, the director is assisted by a
chief engineer and a chief accountant. Operations are carried out through a
number of units engaged in power generation, transmission, power supply, con-
struction, and manufacture and repair. Each of these units is headed by a
chief with line responsibility to HPEPB's deputy directors for production and
construction. The current organizational structure of HPEPB is presented in
Chart 3.
B. Management
3.4       Under the current institutional framework, HPEPB appears to be well
managed. Recent performance indicators for the Henan Power Grid (HPG) shown
in Annex 5 reveal high plant capacity factors and low transmission and distri-
bution losses. While the customer-per-employee ratio is low, the kWh sales
per employee is reasonable. HPEPB prepares accounting information in a timely
fashion (para. 3.13) and maintains an effective billing and collection sys-
tem (paras. 3.23-24). At present, the central government maintains a high
degree of control over the power subsector. As the institutional framework
becomes less centralized and the power bureaus receive greater financial
autonomy and responsibility for decision-making, HPEPB must prepare itself to
manage this transition. The upgrading of management systems and procedures
and the strengthening of financial planning deserve special attention in this
regard (paras. 3.8-3.12). The proposed project includes specific training in
utility management and financial planning (para. 5.12 and Annex 13).
3.5       HPEPB is capable of formulating its own expansion program and
implementing medium-size thermal projects (100-300 MW) by itself. Outside
assistance is, however, required for the preparation of bid documents, bid
evaluation, and contract negotiations for the procurement of equipment on an



- 16 -
ICB basis, interfacing of engineering and design of different islands and
review of vendor's drawings.
C. StaffinR and Training
3.6       HPEPB is understaffed in engineering and technical workers, and
overstaffed in semi-skilled and unskilled workers. As of December 31, 1990,
the bureau had a total staff of about 48,692. Of the total about 9 percent
were college graduates, 21 percent graduates of polytechnic institute, 25 per-
cent senior high school graduates, and 45 percent junior high school gradu-
ates. Except for the core group of key technical and managerial personnel who
are assigned by MOE, almost all of HPEPB's employees are recruited locally.
Most of the employees also are hired on a permanent basis, except for laborers
contracted to do construction. HPEPB has 15 divisions and offices in its
headquarters and 39 outside units (Annex 6).
3.7       The Education Division of HPEPS runs three technical schools for
skilled workers, one secondary technical school for training technicians, and
one staff college for HPEPB's staff. This training capacity is not sufficient
to meet HPEPB's long-term needs; currently it meets only about 30 percent of
the bureau's annual requirement. The quality of teaching s;aff ard teaching
facilities needs to be upgraded and modernized. Training should be designed
to help senior managerial and technical staff adapt to the new situations
brought about by larger units, higher voltage levels, and a larger power grid.
The training component included in the proposed project is designed to meet
these needs. It covers upgrading and equipping of HPEPB's technical schools
and project-related training for technical staff (paras 5.11-5.15).
D. Planning, Budgeting and Control
3.8       The evolution of the systems for planning, budgeting, and control
used in China's power bureaus is discussed in detail in Annex 7. In brief,
all power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-year produc-
tion and investment plans which are integrated into the national plans and are
approved, through MOE's and SEIC's auspices, by SPC. In the past, these plans
have emphasized the planning of quantities of inputs and outputs. Financial
planning was confined to attaching monetary values, predetermined by MOE, to
the quantities being planned. Although a power bureau's plan might be revised
to reflect changes in inputs or outputs arising from changed or unforeseen
circumstances, the plans ordinarily would not be revised merely to reflect
differences between the prices being assumed for planning purposes and those
actually being paid by a particular power bureau. This planning system func-
tioned effectively in an environment where prices were controlled and were
relatively free of inflation and where investments were financed almost exclu-
sively by grants.
3.9       However, under initiatives taken in the early 1980s, prices have
begun to move, albeit slowly, toward market levels and the government is
increasingly using loans rather than grants to finance investments. There-
fore, money is taking on the characteristics of the other commodities which
need to be planned, including: (a) possible variations in constituent prices
on account of unforeseen circumstances, and (b) a cost, payable over a period



- 17 -
of years, associated with the financing of investments. Because of this, MOE
will need to adjust its planning system to include financial planning.
3.10       MOE and SEIC recognize the importance of financial management in
the power subsector in China and are organizing a comprehensive training pro-
gram for all the power bureaus under their control. MOE already has begun to
make adjustments to its management systems by providing many of the power
bureaus with computers and software to use in planning, budgeting, and control
accounting functions. As the bureaus have grown larger anad technically more
complex and as the scope of their business has expanded, the manual methods
used to compile these records have become increasingly unwieldy. Information
stored in the computer diskettes can be transferred to MOE, where it will be
consolidated into regional and national data.
3.11       The new systems represent a good first generation of automated man-
agement information; however, they still are not sufficiently flexible to take
into account price changes at the local level or those associated with
large-scale debt service obligations. Currently MOE and SEIC, with assistance
from the Bank, manage a number of seminars in China as well as overseas, com-
prehensively covering not only the computer-based management information sys-
tem but also those items of tariffs, cost control, project financing, and
organization and structure of financial management. Through these seminars
and training the Bank continues to discuss with MOE and SEIC the possibility
of assisting in the development of an automated information system.
3.12       While it is developing a management information system that will
include modern financial planning, budgeting and control accounting systems,
MOE has agreed to introduce a rudimentary financial planning system in power
bureaus implementing Bank-financed projects. In connection with the Lubuge
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA), the Bank furnished MWREP with a finan-
cial forecasting model. This model allows the power bureaus to study the
impact of both their expansion plans and variations in prices on their future
financial positions. MOE continues to use this model successfully in prepar-
ing projects for appraisal by the Bank. The model also forms the basis for
the rudimentary financial plans which the bureaus are to provide to the Bank
each year. Assurances have been obtained from HPEPB that. by ADril 30 of each
lear commencinQ in 1993. HPEPB will furnish to the Bank a rolling financial
plan containing proiected income statements, sources and application of funds.
and balance sheets for the next eight years.
E. Accounting
3.13       Each of HPEPB's operating units maintains financial accounts which
are consolidated with those of all other HPEPB operating units. The units
prepare accounting information in a timely fashion each month; headquarters
compiles consolidated accounts monthly, quarterly and annually. Accounts for
all units are prepared on an accrual basis using a double entry system. MOP
establishes the regulations governing the presentation of financial accounts
for all sectors. These regulations cover matters such as accounting methods
and procedures; form of accounts; procedures for distribution of net income
and depreciation; taxation; allocations to and use of proceeds from Special
Funds, etc. MOF reviews the regulations and corresponding accounting stan-



- 18 -
standards on an ongoing basis. These regulations and standards are
supplemented by detailed implementation procedures issued by MOE.
3.14      HPEPB has a large accounting staff who are well-trained in main-
taining ledgers and in compiling accounts according to standards. However,
these accounts are used primarily to document historical financial informa-
tion, so HPEPB in just beginning to develop other analytical financial capa-
bilities. As it modernizes its financial management practices, HPEPB staff
will have to learn modern management techniques involving the analysis of
financial and cost accounting for decision-making purposes. A technical
assistance component for training on utility management and financial planning
has been included in the proposed project (para. 5.12).
3.15      HPEPB has several construction units that are responsible for con-
structing its power plants, erecting transmission and distribution facilities,
and implementing asset renovations. Accounts for construction units which
primarily manage construction are consolidated with those of HPEPB's operating
units. Accounts for construction units which function primarily as contrac-
tors for the bureau are handled separately. Since most of the major new
assets are being financed with loans issued directly to HPEPB, HPEPB will
remit progress payments to those construction units functioning as contrac-
tors. In this way, HPEP3's future accounts should properly reflect the value
of major new assets under construction.
F. Audit
3.16      Before 1982, the financial statements of organizations in China
were not subject to comprehensive audit. Entities such as Ministry of Finance
(MOP), the line ministries, tax bureaus, provincial financial bureaus, and
banks conducted individual checks to meet their own particular needs. None of
them prepared independent reports on the accuracy or reliability of their
annual financial statements. China had no professional body of auditors to
prescribe auditing standards and regulations.
3.17      When China's new constitution was ratified by the People's Congress
in December 1982, this situation changed. A State Audit Administration (SAA)
was established in September 1983 and given the status of a ministry reporting
directly to the State Council. Provincial audit bureaus also are being estab-
lished in each province and municipality (large cities). MOF has been respon-
sible for establishing the audit bureaus and has drafted regulations and stan-
dards based on international auditing practices in other countries. These
interim regulations have been promulgated by the State Council.
3.18      To date, SAM's Foreign Investment Audit Bureau has been conducting the
audits of Bank-financed projects; it focuses particularly on audits of enter-
prises or undertakings with foreign participation in the form of equity or loan
financing. SAM's staff have been receiving financial training under the
Technical Cooperation Credit (Credit 1664-CHA) of the Bank.
3.19      The Henan Audit Bureau (HAB) was established in September 1983.
Under the proposed project, HPEPB's annual accounts will be audited by HAB
under the overall supervision of SAA. This arrangement is satisfactory.



- 19 -
Assurances have been obtalned from HPEPB that it will furnish annual financial
statements, certified by an acceptable auditor, to the Bank within six months
of the end of each financial year commencing in 1993.
Internal Audit
3.20      HPEPB recently has developed an internal auditing staff (including
four chartered accountants) who periodically will examine the accounts of each
operating unit; they also will conduct occasional spot checks. The objective
of these examinations is primarily to test for accuracy and compliance with
MOP regulations. The internal auditing unit is not expected to review the
appropriateness of accounting regulations or procedures; such reviews are
considered to be the responsibilities of MOP and MOE. The Bank will review
the internal auditing function during project implementation with a view
toward increasing its efficiency and usefulness to EPEPB. The first HAB audit
report for HPEPB is expected to include a review and commentary on HPEPB's
internal checks and controls and internal audit.
G. Electricity Tariffs
3.21      HPEPB's ta:iffs, generally are too low to cover economic costs.
HPEPB's tariff includes four main categories of consumers: (a) large indus-
try, (b) commercial and small industry, (c) lighting or domestic uses, and
(d) agricultural production. Present tariffs are shown in Annex 8. Among the
users, agricultural users pay much less than HPEPB's average tariff per kWh.
Large industrial consumers pay both a demand charge, based on the maximum
demand or capacity of their installed transformers, and an energy charge based
on consumption. All other consumers just pay an energy charge. Large
industrial consumers pay an average charge of about 11.0 fen/kwh (USc2.0/kWh),
or about 103 percent of the average tariff. Large and small industrial
consumers also pay connection charges, which include the cost of substations
and distribution lines. Domestic customers do not pay a connection charge to
HPEPB but must provide their own meter and internal wiring. Their average
rate (20.4 fen or USc3.8/kWh) is almost 1.9 times as high as HPEPB's average
tariff per kWh (10.65 fen or USc2.0/kWh). The tariff study for the East China
power grid has been completed under the Bank-financed Beilungang Thermal Power
Project (para. 2.15). While the general findings of this study are broadly
applicable to the predominantly thermoelectric systems of China, there is a
need to tailor the tariff target and reform strategy to each particular grid.
A similar study is being carried out for HPEPB under the proposed project to
achieve this objective and to disseminate modern tariff design techniques in
Central China on the basis of the experience gained in East China.
H. Billing and Collection
3.22      As of December 31, 1990, HPEPB sales were distributed according to
the consumer categories shown in Table 3.1. The greatest number of customers
were found in the urban residential category. Together the urban residential
and municipal and other categories account for almost 84 percent of customers,
although they only represent about 6.5 larcent of HPEPB's power sales.  Large
industrial users, rural communities, and agriculture account for much larger
shares of power sales (about 93.5 percent).



- 20 -
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF HPEPB'S CONSUMPTION
(As of Drcember 31, 1990)
No. of                  Consumption
Customer Category                Consumers           Z           (GWh)         %
Large industrial                    3,582           1.3        15,268         55.0
Ordinary industrial                20,737           7.5         1,248          4.5
Agriculture                         19,278          7.0         4,994         18.0
Rural ccmmunities                      826          0.3         4,439         16.0
Urban residential La              231,706          83.9         1,387          5.0
Municipal and others /a                 31            -           411          1.5
Total                        276.160         100.0       27.747        100.0
la Urban residential and municipal and others include public service estab-
lishments, public transportation, and street lighting.
3.23      HPEPB conducts its billing and collection activities through twelve
power supply bureaus. All major industrial consumers (consuming between
1,000-10,000 MWh/month) are charged in advance three times per month at
approximate ten-day intervals. The last two bills, rendered on about the
eleventh and twenty-first days of the month, are based on estimated usage
derived from the consumer's contractual power consumption. The first bill,
rendered on about the first day of the month, is also based on estimated usage
but includes an adjustment to reflect the previous month's actual usage as
computed from a meter reading.  Smaller industrial consumers (consuming belo.
1,000 MWh/month) are billed twice a month, normally on the first and tbhe
fifteenth days of the month. These bills are also based on Potima.ed usage,
and the bill rendered on the first contains the adjustment for the previous
month's meter reading. All other customers are billed once a month based on
actual usage. All consumers buying power from HPEPB are metered individually.
Most rural communities In the Henan Province receive bulk power directly from
HPEPB; they, in turn, distribute it for agricultural, light industrial, and
low voltage consumption within their jurisdictions. HPEPB measures these
sales at its step-down transformer, normally 35 kV, serving the rural
community. All higher and lower voltage consumption within agricultural com-
munities is metered.
3.24      Industrial, commercial and bulk consumers pay their bills through
direct debit from their bank accounts. Urban residential and low voltage
agricultural consumers receiving power directly from HPEPB render payments
either directly to HPEPB offices or to local branches of the National Bank.
Payment is due within three to ten days of receipt of the bill. Regulations
stipulate that consumers who do not pay within this period are to be charged a
fine of 0.03-0.05 percent per day of delay, and that after several notices
those who still refuse to pay their bills are to be disconnected. Because
this regulation is strictly enforced, consumers very rarely allow themselves
to fall into arrears. Any nonagricultural consumer is required to pay a



- 21 -
charge for reconnection. All power supply bureaus are required to submit
their monthly bill collections before the eighth of the next month to the
headquarters, i.e., HPEPB. These arrangements have established a reliable
cash flow from sales and brought HPEPB's accounts receivable from current
power sales down to fairly low levels. At the end of 1990 they were less than
Y 45 million on sales of Y 2,54-, million, which is satisfactory.
I. Insurance
3.25      Agencies such as the People's Insurance Company of China are now
available in China providing commercial coverages. HPEPB currently purchases
commercial insurance, covering assets, vehicles and public liability; these
arrangements are satisfactory.
J. Distribution System
3.26      HPEPB's primary distribution system operates at 1 kV, 10 kV and
35 kV voltage levels. Unfortunately, the power shortages in China have
focused attention on generation and transmission projects at the 110 kV level
and above. When extensions to the distribution network have been the respon-
sibility of the municipal or local governments, the activity has often been
neglected owing to lack of funds.
3.27      According to HPEPB, system losses have been averaging about
14.1 percent (8.4 percent for plant use, 2.3 percent for transmission losses
at 220 kV and 3.7 percent for distribution losses below 110 kV). The distri-
bution losses appear to be low in view of the paucity of investment in distri-
bution. This is because HPEPB sells a significant percentage of its power in
bulk to industrial, agricultural, and rural consumers, and the losses in their
systems are not reflected in HPEPB's losses. To acouire a firmer grasp of the
situation, the system losses at different voltage levels will be measured and
analyzed under the tariff study to be carried out under the proposed project.
3.28      In order to reduce distribution losses for bulk supply, HPEPB has
been taking the following measures since 1986: (a) replacing or renovating of
old distribution transformers; (b) installing static capacitors so as to im-
prove the power factor; (c) improving distribution networks by reconductoring
at a pace of above 2,000-3,000 km annually; (d) implementing a meter monitor-
ing and repairing program; and (e) setting aside 30 percent of the bulk supply
revenue as a rural electrification development fund to be used for the exten-
sion and improvement of distribution networks in the rural area. Up to 1990,
24,900 units of old transformers (out of a total of 46,800) have been
replaced; 80 percent of the bulk suppliers have a power factor of 0.8 or
better; and 435,000 meters have been inspected and repaired. As a result of
these measures, losses in bulk-supplied networks have been reduced from
10.3 percent in 1987 to 8.8 percent in 1990.



- 22 -
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. The Central China Power Grid
4.1       The Central China Power Grid (CCPG) covers the provinces of Hubei,
Hunan, Henan and Jiangxi, which have a combined population of 240 million. In
1990, the installed capacity of CCPG was about 20,100 MW, consisting of about
11,780 MW of thermal capacity (58.6 percent) and 8,320 MW of hydro
capacity (41.4 percent). The system peak load and energy generation in that
year were 10,950 MW and 96,654 GWh, respectively. About 37,664 GWh, or
39 percent, was generated from hydro plants.
4.2       At present, 500 kV is the highest transmission voltage in CCPG,
connecting the provinces of Henan, Hubei and Hunan. At the end of 1990, the
system had 2185.9 km of 500 kV transmission lines, 70.9 km of 330 kV lines and
12,447 km of 220 kV lines. There were six 500 kV substations with a total
capacity of 4,482 MVA and ninety-one 220 kV substations with a total capacity
of 15,424 MVA. A 500 kV direct current transmission line (1,100 km) was
commissioned in 1989 extending from the Gezhouba hydro station near Ichang to
the East China Power Grid.
4.3       There are four load dispatching centers in the CCPG:  Wuhan,
Changsha, Zhengzhou and Nanchang. Wuhan, located in Hubei Province, is under
the supervision of CCEPA and has overall responsibility for controlling power
transfer among the four provinces. The centers of Changsha (in Hunan Prov-
ince), Zhengzhou (in Henan Province) and Nanchang (in Jiangxi Province) con-
trol the operation of generating stations and transmission and sub-tranumiss-
ion systems within their respective provinces.
B. The Henan PowAr Grid
4.4       The province of Henan had a population of about 86.5 million in 1990.
At that time its power system had a total installed capacity of 6,081.6 MW. Of
this, 5,706.1 MW (93.8 percent) was thermal-based and 375.5 MW (6.2 percent) was
hydrobased. The major generating facilities include ten thermal power plants and
one hydro plant; these are described in Annex 9. Yaomen and Jiaozuo are the two
largest thermal plants, with 1,200 MW and 824 MW capacities, respectively.
Sanmenxia, with 250 MW, is the only major hydro plant located within the area.
4.5       In 1990, the province generated a total of 31,777 GWh of electricity.
HPEPB plants generated 25,186 Gwhn, or 79.2 percent of the total, and local,
government-owned and industrial plants generated the remaining 6.591 GWh, or
20.8 percert.   Hydro generation accounted for 1,404 GWh (4.4 percent), and
thermal generation, primarily from coal, for 30,373 GWh (95.6 percent).
4.6       The transmission system in Henan in 1990 consisted of 324.0 km of
500 kV lines, 70.9 km of 330 kV lines, 3,180.2 km of 220 kV lines, and
6,778.8 km of 110 kV lines. All 500 kV and 220 kv lines and 4,230.4 km of the
110 kV lines were owned and operated by HPEPB. The first 500 kV line from
Pingdingshan to Wuhan was put into service in 1981 to interconnect the Henan
Power Grid (HPG) with CCPG. The 330 kV line was completed in 1985 and runs
from Sanmenxia hydro station to Qinling in Shaanxi province. The thirty one



- 23 -
220 kv step-down substations had a total capacity of 5,266 MVA, two hundred
and seven 110 kV substations had a capacity of 11,754.3 MVA. All 220 kV
substations and 5,713 MVA of the 110 kV substations (117 in total) were owned
and operated by HPEPB.
4.7       The growth of peak demand and energy requirements of the CCPG and
HPG systems between 1981 and 1990 is shown in Table 4.1. The growth rates for
CCPG are substantially higher than those for HPG because CCPG experienced both
natural growth and additional demand due to absorption of other power grids
over the period; the Henan Power Grid was interconnected to the system in
1983, the Jiangxi Power Grid in 1984, and the East China Power Grid in 1989.
The system has a daily load factor of 90 percent and an annual load fact;.;r of
about 78 percent. The peak load usually occurs in the month of June due to
the heavy pumping load associated with irrigation.
Table 4.1: HISTORICAL LOAD GROWTH FOR CENTRAL CHINA AND HENAN POWER GRIDS
Peak demand                          Energy Supply /a
(MW)                                   (GWh)
Year                 CCPG                 HPG               CCPG                HPG
1981                3,536              2,202             27,500              15,137
1982                3,790              2,320             29,500              16,254
1983                5,350              2,444             47,850              17,397
1984                7,020              2,512             51,200              18,641
1985                7,581              2,682             54,430              19,516
1986                7,961              3,015             59,190              20,888
1987                9,130              3,387             64,270              22,082
1988               10,300              3,658              73,100             24,140
1989               11,450              3,932             80,100              25,950
1990               10,950              3,956              78,676             27,153
Average rate
of growth (X)        13.4                 6.7               12.4                6.7
la  Including generation and purchased energy.
4.8       Industries account for the largest share of energy consumed in
Henan. Of the 28,224 GWh of energy consumed in the province in
1990, 70.5 percent was consumed by industrial users, 18.4 percent by rural
consumers, 8.9 percent by residential, commercial and other municipal loads in
the cities, and 2.2 percent by transportation. Annex 10 provides more details
of the energy consumed by different categories of consumers in Henan province
between 1985 and 1990.
C. Load Forecast
4.9       As part of the economic planning process carried out by HPEPB, load
forecasts were developed by applying a combination of statistical methods and
planning targets to every major consumer category. Industrial loads were



- 24 -
estimated on the basis of a market survey and analysis of projected industrial
products and unit consumption per product for different categories of indus-
tries. Rural loads were estimated based on past growth trends for drainage
and irrigation loads, rural industrial loads, and lighting. Municipal loads
were estimated based on market surveys of hotels, buildings, and government
projects to be put into operation over the next ten years. Population growth
and increasing use of home appliances were taken into consideration in esti-
mating residential and commercial loads. Transportation loads, which are
relatively small, were estimated according to pact growth trends for airports
and railway stations and projected load for railroad electrification.
Table 4.2 presents the resulting forecasts for peak demand and energy require-
ments for CCPG and HPG between 1991 and 2000.
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST FOR CENTRAL CHINA AND HENAN POWER GRIDS
Peak demand                       Energy requirement
(MW)                                   (GWh)
Year                 CCPG                HPG               CCPG                HPG
1990 (Actual)      10,950              3,956             78,626             27,153
1991               11,777              4,313             82,703             28,896
1992               12,661              4,636             88,818             31,063
1993               13,661              4,984             95,385             33,393
1994               14,631              5,358            102,438             35,897
1995               15,728              5,759            110,012             38,589
1996               16,908              6,192            118,142             41,484
1997               18,176              6,656            126,883             44,595
1998               19,539              7,228            136,372             47,940
1999               21,005              7,792            146,354             51,535
2000               22,580              8,400            157,187             55,400
Average rate of
growth (p.a.) (2)  7.5                 7.8                7.2                7.4
4.10      Based on this forecast, the peak demand for CCPG would increase
from 10,950 KW in 1990 to 22,580 MW in 2000; energy generation would increase
from 78,626 GWh to 157,187 GWh. These figures represent average annual growth
rates of 7.5 percent and 7.2 percent, respectively. This is because no
additional demand due to absorption of other power grids is anticipated. For
the HPG system, peak demand would increase from 3,956 MW to 8,400 MW and the
energy requirement would increase from 27,153 GWh to 55,400 GWh. Their
respective annual growth rates would be 7.8 percent and 7.4 percent.
4.11      These load forecasts and growth rates are on the conservative side
considering that: (a) power shortages have been occurring for a long time, so
there ts quite a bit of suppressed demand for electricity, especially for the
first five years; (b) as the rural economy improves, the load for lighting and
agro-industries in rural areas will increase; and (c) as the standard of liv-



- 25 -
ing in the cities improves, per capita electricity consumption will increase
rapidly, particularly for lighting and home appliances.
D. The Power Development Program (1991-2000)
4.12      Henan is short of hydroelectric potential.  The 250 MW Sanmenxia
hydro station is the only sizeable hydro development in the area. Another
hydro project which is mainly for flood control, Xiaolangdi (6 x 260 kW), is
being planned by the Ministry of Water Resources downstream of Sanmenxia on
the Yellow River, but it is not expected to be completed before year 1999.
Expanding generation c-?pacity in the near term therefore will require the use
of coal-fired thermal power stations.
4.13      A study of the least-cost investment program was made by WREPERI in
February 1987.  This study confirms that a number of thermal power stations
will need to be built over the next decade utilizing local coal as well as
coal imported from nearby Shanixi province.  A summary of the power development
program for the HPG system, including generation and transmission, is given in
Annex 11.  The balance between power demand and supply is given in Annex 12;
it indicates that there still would be power shortages up to 1995.  Only after
the completion of Yanshi Phase II development in 1996, would the Henan power
grid have adequate reserve capacity and be able to export baseload energy to
the Central China power grid (see para.5.2).



- 26 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
5.1       In the past, shortfalls in electric generating capacity have been a
major constraint to China's economic growth. This situation is likely to
continue in the near term unless changes are made. The Government of China
gives high priority to electric power development and has developed a compre-
hensive strategy for power development.  This strategy combines (a) expanding
generating capacity by developing coal-fired thermal stations at mine-mouths
or near ports and load centers where applicable, and accelerating the pace of
hydroelectric development; (b) increasing the financial and managerial
autonomy of the power bureaus; (c) introducing a more rational pricing system;
(d) adopting modern techniques in project design and system planning;
(e) constructing extra high voltage transmission lines for interconnection
between regions; and (f) replacing low pressure medium-sized (50-100 MW)
thermal units with higher pressure 300-600 MW units. The proposed project
reflects the basic conception of these policies.
5.2       The major objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) alleviate
the acute power shortage of a major load center in Central China; (b) support
the national policies of developing thermal power plants at mine-mouths or
near coal mines; (c) introduce up-to-date methods for investment planning,
tariff restructuring, and system operation; (d) introduce techniques for mod-
ern construction and management of thermal power plant; (e) upgrade HPEPB's
capability in financial management and in the operation and maintenance of
thermal power plants with 300 MW units; and (f) further improvements in the
environmental impact of HPEPB's thermal power stations, including an
environmental monitoring program.
5.3       The proposed project would be the first Bank financed power project
in the central part of China. This would enable the Bank to extend the insti-
tution-building functions that are being carried out in East and South China
under previously approved Bank loans, help maintain the momentum reached and
enhance further institutional developments in one of the most populous prov-
inces in China.
B. Proiect Description
5.4       The proposed project is located about 90 km west of Zhengzhou and
27 km east of Luoyang in Henan province. It is situated on a site with favor
able topographical conditions and easy access by railroad and highway. Water
for the makeup (supplementary water to compensate losses) and circulating
water systems will be supplied from underground wells along the banks of the
Yi and Luo Rivers. Cooling water towers will be used for recirculation. The
existing railroad system with a short branch will supply coal to the project
site from the Xinan and Yima mines, located 60 km and 90 km west of the power
station, respectively. Xinan has a reserve of 560 million tons and Yima has
627 million tons. Annual production of coal in 1990 was 10.6 million tons at
Yima and 1.8 million tons at Xinan. Both mines contain low grade coals which
are economically suitable for use in power generation. At appraisal the
Government confirmed that these supplies of coal would be guaranteed for the project.



- 27 -
5.5       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) extension of the existing Yanshi thermal power plant by adding two
coal-fired generating units of 300 MW each, comprising:
(i) civil works including main building piling and foundation,
building structures, cooling water towers and a chimney; and
(ii) electrical and mechanical equipment including boilers, turbine-
generators, ash handling facilities, and other auxiliaries;
(b) construction of five 220-kV transmission lines about 350 km in
length with associateA substations;
(c) carrying out a monitoring program for environmental protection;
(d) carrying out training program for upgrading the technical, financial
and managerial skills of HPEPB staff including a management informa-
tion system, equipping and upgrading HPEPB's technical schools, and
training for the operations and maintenance staff of large thermal
power plants with 300-MW units;
(e) carrying out a tariff study and an action plan for tariff structure
improvements; and
(f) provision of consulting services.
5.6       Prolect Origin and Design.  The proposed project represents the
Phase II development of the Yanshi Thermal Power Project. The first phase,
consisting of two 200-MW units has been successfully completed. The first
unit was put into operation in March 1988 and the second unit in 1989.
5.7       The project was first brought to the attention of the Bank during
the Bank/GOC annual review of the lending program for FY87 and FY88, held in
June 1986. In September 1986, an identification miE ion visited the project
site and the implementing agency--HPEPB. Between August 1985 and March 1986,
a feasibility study of the project was prepared by the Southwest China
Electric Power Design Institute (SWCEPDI). This study later was revised to
conform to the requirements of a Bank loan. In April 1987 the report was
reviewed by MWREP, and in May 1987 it was finalized. The report demonstrated
that the project was technically sound and economically justified.
5.8       Extension of the Yanshi Thermal Power Station.  Site conditions are
well known and there have been no unusual occurrences. A study of the power
development program (para. 7.3) has confirmed that the Yanshi thermal power
station is the least cost solution for HPEPB's future development program.
The station is located at the load centers of Zhengzhou and Luoyang, which
have experienced acute power shortages for many years; it also is situated
close to the coal mines, reducing both transmission and fuel costs.
5.9       The Phase II development will consist of two 300 MW coal-fired units
of conventional design with drum type boilers and reheat tandem compound type



- 28 -
turbine-generators. They will be operating with a steam condition of 169
kg/cm2 pressure and 538 degrees celsius temperature.
5.10      Transmission System.  In order to feed power from the Yanshi plant
to the HPEPB system, five 220-kV transmission lines will be constructed. The
lines will extend a total of 350 km and run from Yanshi to 'Zhengzhou (104 km),
Yanshi to Gaucun through Luobei and Luonan (137 km), Yanshi to Dengfong
(60 km), and include two other short connection lines (49 km).  The existing
Luobei, Jili and Gongxian substations all will be extended. Luobei will
receive a 150 MVA transformer, Jlli a 90 MVA transformer, and Gongxian a
120 MVA transformer, representing a total 600 MVA of additional capacity among
the three substations. Two new 120 MVA substations will be established at
Dengfong and Mixian (see Map IBRD 21114).
5.11      Training.  A training program with the following three components
will be included in the project (Annex 13):
(a) training of HPEPB staff in the areas of utility management, finan-
cial planning, and development of a management information system;
(b) project-related training for technical staff; and
(c) upgrading and equipping of HPEPB's technical schools.
5.12      To modernize the management and financial planning of the utility,
study tours and training will be arranged in which HPEPB managers and finan-
cial staff will visit a few selected utilities overseas. The objectives are
to provide high-level staff with the skills needed to meet the circumstances
of the nineties: modern and larger power plants, larger automated grids with
load dispatch systems, higher voltage transmission, modern account-
ing/costing/pricing and a self-sustained investment planning organization.
Before that, seminars on utility management and financial planning will be
conducted in China with the assistance cf management specialists. Since this
type of training is already included with ongoing Bank loans, seminars and
overseas training can be arranged jointly with the other power bureaus.
5.13      Project related training for the technical staff would include:
(a) on-the-job training for engineering and design staff by providing opportu-
nities for them to work together with the consultants; (b) training of elec-
trical and mechanical staff by suppliers of major equipment included under the
contracts; (c) training of the operations and maintenance staff at selected
power stations available in China; and (d) training of project staff for envi-
ronmental monitoring. A training center equipped with a simulator in CCPG
will be used to train operators. New technology on construction, especially
installation of large generation units and interfacing between different
islands will be introduced throughout the project implementation.
5.14      To meet HPEPB's long-term needs for human resources, expansions will
be made in its staff college, the Zhengzhou Secondary Technical School for
Electric Power, and three technical schools for skilled workers. All these
schools will be provided more laboratory equipment and teaching aids and the
skills of their teaching staff will be upgraded.



- 29 -
5.15      All the training components will be implemented by HPEPB.
Asurances have been obtAined from HPEPB that it will carry out the trainina
in  accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank.
5.16      Tariff Action Plan.  A tariff study is being carried out by HPEPB
with the assiatance of WREPERI to prepare a concrete plan of tariff restruc-
turing (Annexes 14 and 15). The purpose of this study is to review the level
and structure of the power tariff on the basis of long-run marginal costs.
The study also will take into account other considerations such .s the
financial requirements and objectives of HPEPB. A tariff action plan will be
executed by HPEPB in order to bring tariffs more in line with the cost of
supply for various customer categories, based on the findings of the power
pricing study. Assurances have been obtained from HPEPB that it will carry
out the tariff study and action plan in accordance with the program agreed
with the Bank.
5.17      Consulting Services.  As the proposed project physically resembles
the Wujing Thermal Power Project (Loan 2852-CHA) in its scope and in the size
of units, the same consulting arrangements have been made. The China Interna-
tional Engineering Consulting Corporation (CIECC) is the leading firm, sup-
ported by the China Electric Power Consulting Corporation (CEPCC) and SWCEPDI
to provide the overall consulting services. Sargent and Lundy Engineers
U.S.A., a foreign consulting firm retained for the Wujing Project, is used to
provide assistance in the review of bidding documents, bid evaluation, includ-
ing the preparation of bid evaluation report, and in the interfacing of engi-
neering and design for different islands. Terms of reference for these
services (Stage I and Stage II) are detailed in Annex 16.
5.18      An emount of $0.6 million has been provided for Stage I services
(for project preparation) as one of the subprojects under the Second Technical
Cooperation Credit (Credit 1664-CHA).l/ Stage II services for project
implementation will be financed under the proposed Bank loan.
C. Cost Estimate
5.19      The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 5.1.  The
cost estimates reflect December 1991 prices and are based on the latest ten-
dering information available for 300 MW units in China. Unit costs of civil
works are based on information obtained during the implementation of Phase I
(2 x 200 MW). Since this is an extension project, site conditions are well
known. Physical contingencies are calculated at 5 percent for the foreign
costs of plant equipment, materials and services, and 10 percent for civil
works and other local costs. The price escalation for costs expressed in
terms of foreign exchange (US dollars) is calculated according to anticipated
international price movements of 3.9 percent per annum in average for 1992-
1997. The price escalation for costs expressed in local currency is
calculated according to projected local inflation rates of 8.0 percent per
I/   Technical Cooperation Credit is used for project preparation only.  This
$0.6 million has not been included in the project cost estimate shown in
Table 5.1.



-30 -
annum for 1992, 5.0 percent per annum for 1993 and thereafter. Detailed
estimates of project costs are provided in Annex 17.
Table 5.1:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
(Y million)               tS million)        . cost as
X of total
Civil works                             237.3      34.4    271.7      44.1       6.4   50.5        12.7
Plant equipment and materials           308.8    860.3   1169.1       57.4    159.9  217.3         73.5
Transmission system                     140.4         -    140.4      26.1         -   26.1           -
Environmental protection                   1.1      0.5       1.6      0.2       0.1    0.3        33.3
Training                                  6.9       5.4      12.3      1.3       1.0    2.3        43.5
Tariff study and action plan              2.7         -       2.7      0.5         -    0.5           -
Engiueering and construction
management                             91.5       6.5     98.0      17.0       1.2   18.2         6.6
Total Base Cost                     788.7    907.1  1.695.8    146.6    168.6  315.2           53.5
Contingencies
Physical                               78.6      45.2    123.8      14.6       8.4   23.0        36.5
Price                                  74.2      14.0     88.2      13.8       3.0   16.8        17.9
Total Prolect Cost                  941.5    966.3  1.907.8    175.0    180.0  355.0           50.7
Interest during construction
IBRD loan                                 -    258.8    258.8          -      48.1   48.1       100.0
Local loan                            304.0         -    304.0      56.5         -   56.5           -
Total Financing Required          1.245.5  1,225.1  2.470.6    231.5    228.1  459.6           49.6
Notes:  1.  Base cost and physirtl contingency (at December 1991 price) have been calculated
using an exchange rate of Yuanl - $0.19.
2.  The project would be exempted from import duties and taxes.
3.  Total physical contingencies are about 7.32 of base cost; local price contingencies
are about 8.62 and foreign price contingencies are about 1.71 of the base cost plus
physical contingencies, when expressed in US dollars. Since bids were already opened
for the boiler and turbine generator packages on a firm price basis, no escalation of
prices were provided after contract award, targeted for early 1992.
D. Financing Plan
5.20         The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 5.2:
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
($ million equivalent)
Local cost           Foreign cost                Total
IBRD                                                      -                  180.0              180.0
SEIC                                                 115.8                    32.1              147.9
Provincial Government                                115.7                     16.0             131.7
Total                                         231.5                   228.1              459.6



- 31 -
5.21      The proposed Bank loan of $180 million will be used to meet 51 per-
cent of the tctal project cost, or 79 percent of the foreign exchange require-
ments. The loan will finance the following components:
(a) steel products and timber for civil works;
(b) construction equipment;
(c) boiler island package;
(d) turbine-generator island package;
(e) ash disposal system package;
(f) instrumentation and control package;
(g) electrical equipment and cables;
(h) water treatment package;
(i) environmental protection equipment;
(j) training program; and
(k) consulting services.
5.22      Financing for the remaining foreign exchange requirement, interest
during construction on the Bank loan will be obtained from SEIC and provincial
government. These local loans will be repaid over 15 years, beginning after
the project is completed. All local costs will be financed equally by SEIC
and the provincial government of Henan (ie. an equivalent of $116 million
each).
5.23      The proposed Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of
China at the standard variable interest rate for a 20 year term (including 5
years grace f   repayment of principal).  Assurances have been obtained from
GOC that it will onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to HPEPB under
a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term including 5 years arace at the
Bank's variable interest rate with no premium. HPEPB will bear the commitment
charges and the foreign exchange risk. A Project Agreement will be concluded
between the Bank and HPEPB. The execution of a subsidiary loan aRreement
satisfactorv to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness for the loan.
E. Procurement
5.24      Equipment and materials financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Based on the experience gained from the Wujing
Thermal Power Project, the procurement of this project will be carried out on
an island basis instead of the single responsibility concept. For selected
goods, bids offering domestically manufactured plant, equipment and other
components will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the
c.i.f. price or the import duty, whichever is lower. Equipment estimated to



- 32 -
cost leas than $200,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of $3.0 million
could be procured by Limited Intornational Bidding (LIB) in accordance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidalines. Civil works to be financed by the borrower
will be procured following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB), which
has boon roviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
5.25      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.3 belows
Table 5 3t  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Item                                  Procuremen. Method                    Total
ICB          Other      N.B.FP        cost
1. Work.
1.1 Site preparation                                            12.1        12.1
1.2  Civil works                       -             -          39.7        39.7
2. Goods
2.1  Plant equipment                 170.6           3.0        68.5       242.1
and materials                (170.6)         (3.0)                (173.6)
2.2  Transmission                      -             -          31.8        31.8
system
2.3  Construction                      -             3.9         -           3.9
equipment                                    (3.9)                  (3.9)
3.   Consultancies
3.1  Engineering and construction      -            21.8         -          21.8
management                                   (1.3)                   (1.3)
3.2  Training                          -             2.7         -           2.7
(1.1)                  (1.1)
3.3  Tariff Study                      -                         0.6         0.6
3.4  Environmental                     -             0.1         0.2         0.3
protection                                   (0.1)                  (0.1)
Total                           170.6          31.5       152.9      355.0
(170.6)        (9(4)                 L180.0)
Notes Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
N.B.F. - Not Bank-financed.
5.26      All procurement documents related to bidding packages for goods
financed by the Bank and estimated to cost more than $1.0 million equivalent
would be subject to the Bank's prior review; this covers the procurement of
eight major packages (par&. 5.21) to be financed out of the Bank loan. The
procurement schedule is shown in Annex 18.



- 33 -
F. Proiect Implementation
5.27       Since this is an extension project, all the land needed for the
power plant already is available and most of the common facilities have been
completed. The detailed engineering and design for the new extension is being
carried out by SWCEPDI. A well-staffed construction unit has been set up
under HPEPB to supervise and coordinate the construction of the project.
Bidding documents for the boiler and turbine generator were issued on
January 25, 1989. Bids were opened on May 4, 1989 and contracts are expected
to be negotiated pending Bank loan approval.
5.28       Chart 4 presents the implementation schedule for the various compo-
nents of the project. Key dates of project implementation are given in An-no
19 and estimated annual contractual and other payments are given in Table
5.4. The civil work construction is well within the capability of the local
cont-actor. Site preparation started in July 1989 under the Phase I
development. Foundation excavation will be started in August 1992, and piling
will begin in September 1992. Commissioning of the first 300 MW unit would be
December 1995; commissioning of the second unit would follow twelve months
later, in December 1996. The project completion date would be June 30, 1997,
and the closing date of the Bank loan would be December 31, 1997.
Table 5.4: ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER PAYMENTS
($ million equivalent)
Proiect Year /a           Total
Project Element              1991  1992   1993  1994  1995  1996 1997 Payment   Remarks
Works
Site preparation              0.8  5.8    5.2   0.3   -       -    -       12.1    NBF
Civil works                   1.4  4.3   14.3  13.9   4.2   1.6  -         39.7    LCB
Goods
Plant equipment               -   15.8   81.1  49.2  16.0   5.1  3.4   170.6    ICB
and materials                   (15.8)  (81.1) (49.2) (16.0)  (5.1) (3.4)  (170.6)
-    0.1    1.6   0.9   0.2   0.2  -         3.0  Other
(0.1)  (1.6)  (0.9)  (0.2)  (0.2)       (3.0)
0.1  4.1   28.5  23.3   7.8   4.7  -         68.5    NBF
Transmission
system                        -    1.3    3.1  14.2  11.6   1.6  -         31.8    HBF
Construction                    -    0.4    3.5   -       -     -    -        3.9  Other
equipment                          (0.4)  (3.5)   -     -     -    -       (3.9)
Environmental protection        -    0.1    0.2   -       -     -    -        0.3 IS,NBF
equipment                       -    -      (0.1)  -      -     -    -       (0.1)
Consultancies
Englneering L                 1.4  3.3    5.5   5.4   4.8   1.4  -         21.8  Other
construction mgmt.          -   (0.2)  (0.7)  (0.2)  (0.2)   -    -      (1.3)
Training                      -    0.3    1.0   1.0   0.4   -    -          2.7  Other
(0.2)  (0.5)  (0.4)  -     -    -       (1.1)
Tariff study                  0.3  0.3    -      -      -     -    -        0.6    NBF
Total                      4.0 35.8  144.0 108.2  45.0  14.6  3.4   355.0
(Bank-Financed)                (16.7)  (87.5) (50.7) (16.4)  (5.3) (3.4)  (180.0)
la Calendar year.



- 34 -
G. Disbursement
5.29      The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100 percent of the
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on a
c.i.f. basis; (b) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally
manufactured items; (c) 75 percent of the cost of other items procured
locally; and Id) 100 percent of the expenditure for consulting services and
training. For expenditures relating to training and contracts for goods and
services valued at less than $200,000 equivalent, reimbursement will be made
on the basis of statements of expenditures. Documentation supporting such
expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank but should be retained in the
HPEPB office in Zhengzhou and made available for review by the Bank's
supervision mission. To facilitate disbursements under this project, a
Special Account will be established with an authorized allocation of
$10.0 million, representing approximately four months of average project
expenditures. Applications for replenishment will be submitted monthly or
when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever
comes sooner.
5.30      Annex 20 presents the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan as well as a Bank-wide standard profile of disbursements for all sectors
in China. Since the project involves the addition of two units for which most
of the preparation works and common facilities were already completed and for
which procurement of major plant equipment was in the advanced stage, the
implementation period is expected to be shorter than for conventional
projects. The disbursements therefore are expected to be faster, scheduled
for five and a half years instead of the Bank-wide profile of six years.
H. Monitoring and Reporting
5.31      Satisfactory procedures for financial reporting have been estab-
lished for use in monitoring the progress of the project (paras. 3.13 and
3.20). HPEPB will submit half yearly progress reports on project execution
and a project completion report when the work is finished.
I. Environmental Considerations
5.32      The Yanshi site is located about 90 km vest of the capital city of
Zhengzhou and 27 km east of Luoyang. It is primarily an agricultural area
with a population density of about 8,500 within one km and 45,000 within a
radius of 5 km. The nearest township is Yanshi, located about 2 km east of
the plant site. The prevailing wind direction is NEE or NE. As Yanshi is a
developed site, there would be no need for land acquisition and resettlement.
Environment Impact
5.33      An environmental impact (El) report has been reviewed and approved
by the Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau. The project has been



- 35 -
designed taking into account all recomended mitigating measures in the EIS
into the project design. The following issues deeerve special note.
5.34      Air Oualitv.  The coal to be used for the plant would be low grade
coal with a heat value of 4,250 kcal/kg, a sulfur content of less than
1 percent, and an ash content of about 24 percent. Ground level
concentrations of dust particles and sulfur dioxide would be kept within the
limits of the national standard and comply with the World Bank Guidelines for
four units in operation. The stack emission for dust particles also would
conform to the requirements of the World Bank Guidelines (see Annex 21).
These conditions would be met by using a stack height of 240 m and employing
electrostatic precipitators with an efficiency of 99.4 percent for Phase II
development. However, this is not the cass for the existing Phase I
development of two units of 200 MW which have a Venturi water-filmed type of
precipitator. HPEPB has agreed to improve the efficiency of these units by
replacing them with high efficiency electrostatic precipitators. Procurement
of these precipitators has been started with HPEPB's own funds and
installation is scheduled for 1992/93.
5.35      Liauid Chemical Effluent.  Plant liquid chemical effluents will be
held in a neutralization basin and treated before they are discharged into
rivers.
5.36      Ash Dis2osal.  Ash from the power plant will be disposed in the
gullies along the northern slope of the Mang-shan range enclosed by dams. The
total storage capacity of ash disposal yards is about 37.5 million m 3, which
is adequate for 30 years of operation. The pH value in the ash water will be
kept within the allowable limit of 6-9 before it is discharged into the Yellow
River. Facilities to treat the ash water will be provided during project
implementation.
5.37      A complete summary of all environmental mitigating measures to be
taken is presented in Annex 22 and an environmental monitoring program, in
Annex 23. HDEPB will undertake the recommended mitigating measures and
rectify problems, if any, during the testing and operation periods.
Assurances have been obtained from HPEPB that it will take all necessary
steps to iim2lement an environmental monitoring program satisfactory to the
Bank.
Resettlement
5.38      The transmission facilities will be designed and installed in accor-
dance with current technological practices and are expected to cause minimum
disturbance to the environment. The area through which the three major 220 kV
transmission lines will pass is primarily agricultural, consisting of 75 per-
cent wheat or cotton fields and 25 percent uncultivated hills. There will be
no houses or people to be relocated. As the land under the line still could
be utilized for cultivation, there should be no difficulty to acquire land for
tower foundation (about 5.2 ha).



- 36 -
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Introduction
6.1       HPEPB is a financially independent entity which reports to MOE.  It
follows the financial regulations issued by MOP for all state enterprises and
the procedures developed by MOE for adapting those MOF regulations for use by
power bureaus. Within this framework, HPEPB manages its own affairs. In the
past its revenues have covered its operating requirements and left it with
comfortable liquidity. However, most surpluses have been remitted to the
Government; in turn, the Government has provided all the funds needed for
investments in approved projects. Historically, these funds have been
provided on a grant basis, but more recently they have been provided as loans.
B. Financial System
6.2       All Chinese power bureaus conduct their affairs accordinig to a stan-
dardized financial system, the salient points of which are described briefly
in Annex 24. As was the case unde; previous Bank-financed projects for the
Chinese power subsector, HPEPB is not permitted to retain more than a nominal
amount of its earnings, and the cash corresponding to the earnings that are
retained must ultimately be applied to certain specified categories of expen-
ditures or investments. Thus, HPEPB has limited incentive to realize revenues
in excess of its obligations. Also, the traditional indicators of financial
performance, such as rate of return and self-financing ratio, have only
limited applicability to an analysis of HPEPB at this time. As part of the
ongoing economic reforms, the Government is reassessing the present fiscal
system, with particular focus on tax reform issues and options. Since details
of such reforms are still being formulated, there are considerable uncertain-
ties relating to the specific parameter. affecting the bureaus' future
finances. Nevertheless, in keeping with the spirit of the recently enacted
Enterprise Law, the integrated measures of the economic reform would be
directed at enhancing rather than impeding the commercial orientation of the
state enterprises.
C. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.3       HPEPB's financial statements for the period 1985-90 are shown in
Annex 25 and summarized in Table 6.1.
6.4       During 1985-90, HPEPB'a sales increased by about 41 percent, while
operating revenues increased by about 129 percent. Although the tariff was
not adjusted during this period, average revenues per kWh increased by about
64 percent, reflecting a modest increase in the proportion of higher priced
urban residential and commercial consumption. Despite the increase in average
revenues, the operating ratio increased from about 84 percent to 91 percent,
indicating that the increase in HPEPB's operating cost is outpacing the
increase in average revenues. The downward trend of the rate of return, spe-
cifically for 1985-88, is not due to HPEPB's inefficiency in operation but due
mainly to its rapidly increasing fixed assets formation during the period;
while HPEPB's rate base increased by nearly 39 percent in 1986 and 18 percent
in 1988. In order to meet the cost increases expected in the future and to



- 37 -
Table 6.1: HPEPB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1985-90 /a
(in million Yuan)
Year ended December 31             1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Electricity sales (GWh)          16,992  18,062  19,773  21,870  23,392  23,892
Average revenue (fen/kWh)           6.5      7.1     7.4     7.7    10.0    10.7
Operating revenues                1,110   1,289   1,464   1,680   2,330   2,545
Operating income lb                 172     162      152      98      198     154
Capital expenditure                 879     864      591     424      196     238
Net fixed assets in operation    2,137   2,991   3,070   3,625   3,919   4,500
Cash at end of year                  93     120      142     280      323     344
Operating ratio (%)                  84      87       90      94       93      91
Rate of return (x) /c              12.0     7.4      5.7     2.7      4.1     5.3
Debt service coverage (times)      72.0    37.0      9.0     9.0      7.0     7.1
Current ratio (times)               1.6      1.6     1.9     1.7      1.8     3.4
/a  In October 1983 the Sanmenxia hydro power station (5 x 50 MW), of which
the value of net fixed assets then was 185.7 million Yuan, was transferred
from HPEPB to the Yellow River Water Conservancy Commission under the
directive of MWREP.
lb Operating revenues less the aggregate of fuel, power purchases, adminis-
tration, operation and maintenance, and depreciation.
ic Based on historically valued average net fixed assets in operation.
remain financially viable, HPEPB will need to increase its tariff considerably
for the period 1990-2000.
Valuation of Assets
6.5       The Chinese financial system does not employ the concept of revalu-
ing fixed assets. In the short run, the revaluation of assets would not have
a major impact on HPEPB's financial status because inflation has been low over
the last 30 years and because there is little foreign content in existing
assets in the power sector. However, as incipient changes take place in the
structure of prices, revaluation of assets will become more important. Since
the adoption of a revaluation policy would have impacts beyond the power sec-
tor, it will not be addressed solely in the context of the proposed project.
Instead, this subject will become a component of the continuing policy dia-
logue between the Bank and MOF. In the meantime a pro forma revaluation was
conducted during appraisal of the proposed project, to assess the impact of
revaluation on HPEPB's average rate of return on assets. The effect of this
revaluation was to reduce the average rate of return on assets by one-third
for the period 1991 and 2000.
Tariffs
6.6       In the past, HPEPB's tariff allowed the bureau adequate operating
revenue and provided substantial general revenues to the State (para. 6.3).
However, in the future inflation and other specific price adjustments are



- 38 -
expected to have a much greater effect on HPEPB's cost structure. For exam-
ple, the price the bureau pays for coal, the major part of its cost structure,
already increased substantially in 1987/88. In order for HPEPB to recover the
full additional cost of coal price increases MOE has authorized it to intro-
duce a gradual fuel adjustment into its primary pricing arrangements. The
pricing study, being carried out under the project, will form the basis for
further discussions with GOC on the level and structure of the power tariff.
D. Financina Plan
6.7       HPEPB's financing plan for the project implementation period
(1992-97) is displayed in Table 6.2:
Table 6.2: HPEPB'S FINANCING PLAN, CY92-97
Z of
Item                                             Y million   $ million /a  total
Sources of funds
Internal cash generation                           11,625          2,161         67
(less) Increment in working capital                  (889)          (166)        5
(less) Increment in Special Fund assets                (1)            (0)        0
(less) Repayment of loans                          (4,199)          (780)       24
(less) Remittances to Government                   (1,789)          (333)        10
(less) Special Fund expenditures                   (1,955)          (363)       11
(less) Chargeable IDC                                (284)           (53)        2
%Oash Available for Investment                      2.508            466         15
Proposed IBRD loan                                    968            180          6
Other loans for proposed project                    1,571            292          9
All other loans                                    12,199          2,267         70
Total financing                              14.738          2.739         85
Total sources of funds                        17.246         3.205        100
ADDlication of funds
Proposed project                                    2,221            413         1S
Other construction                                 11,927          2,217         69
Interest during construction                        1,132            210          6
Renovations                                         1,700            316         10
Distribution improvements                             266             49          2
Total aRnlication of funds                   17.246          3.205        100
/a Y 1 - $0.19.



- 39 -
The Chinese financial system prevents a power bureau from meeting more than
nominal amounts of its investment program from internal cash generation. In
the case of HPEPB, more than 78 percent of the cash available for investment
is earmarked for renovations and distribution improvements through the Special
Fund allocation system. The rest of the cash available for investment would
cover a portion of interest during construction which, pursuant to
regulations, must be met from net income. The proposed project (excluding
interest during construction) accounts for about 13 percent of HPEPB's
investment program for the period. The proposed Bank loan will only meet
about 6 percent of HPEPB's financing requirements.
6.8         The estimated foreign exchange requirement of the proposed project
exceeds the proposed Bank loan by $48.1 million, which represents interest
during construction. SEIC has arranged for HPEPB to borrow the yuan equiva-
lent of the additional foreign exchange requirement from the People's Con-
struction Bank of China (PCBC) at 8.28 percent per annum interest, with repay-
ment over a 10-year period beginning upon completion of the project. Arrange-
ments have been made to allow HPEPB to purchase the needed foreign exchange
from the Bank of China.
6.9         HPEPB will borrow one half of the local currency portion of its
financing requirements from the Henan provincial government and the remaining
half from PCBC (through SEIC) on terms prevailing at the time of commitment.
Currently these terms include interest at 8.28 percent per annum and repayment
in equal installments over 10 years beginning after construction is completed.
E. Future Finances
6.10        Projections of HPEPB's financial performance for the period 1991-
2000 are displayed in Annex 25 and summarized in Table 6.3.  These projections
are based on the assumptions presented in Annex 25.
Table 6.3: EP3'BS FM PPANACIAL INDICATORS, 1990-2000
(million Yuan)
Forecast                         Projected
Actual                                                            av'ra a
Tear ended 12131        1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 1991.200
rgsy sales (G0h)        23,892 25.152 27,017 28.961 31,090 33.638 37,173 40,569 43,341 47,416 53.361
Average pricel/M (fen)   10.65  13.50  15.36  17.23  19.01  21.00  22.46  24.24  27.05  28.80  26.80
Operating reveue         2,545  3,396  4.155  4,991 5,910  7,065 8,350  9.835 11,723 13,654 15.366
Operating inc.e           238  441  766  1.120 1.593  2.180  2,714  3.543 4,581 5,400 5,923
ettanc  to government      27   34   93  138  286  326  438  509  564  616  834
Araal capital expenditure  591  1,330  1,414  2,333  2.749  3.048  3,577  4.125  4,494  4,603  4,648
Rate base               4,500  4,877  5,901  7.114  8,298 10,101 12,606 14,834 17,381 22,565 27,651
L, -trm debt             2,067  2,952  3,834 5,359  7.248  8,959 11,062 13,192 15,098 16,489 17,905
Deb bervice               344  313  314  294  348  351  408  440  523  665  1,045
Ca0h In bank              152  187  227  245  264  271  297  386  463
Rate of return
lletorically valued aeagt* (2)  5.3  9.0  13.0  15.7  19.2  21.6  21.5  23.9  26.4  23.9  21.4    19.6
Ecotionlly revalued assets (I)  3.6  5.8  8.1  9.6  11.7  13.5  14.0  15.7  17.4  16.4  14.9    12.7
lf-fci  ratio (2)       17.3  24.5  22.4  22.2  24.0  25.7  25.0  26.8  25.3  26.2  30.0    25.2
Operating ratio (X)      90.6  87.0  81.6  77.6  73.1  69.1  67.5  64.0  60.9  60.4  61.5    70.3
Debt/totcl capital (2)   37.0  44.2  49.2  55.2  60 7  62.6  64.5  64.9  63.2  60.2  58.4    58.3
Debt service coverage     7.1  2.6  2.2  1.9  2:2  1.8  1.8  1.6  1.5  1.4  1.5              1.8
6.11        Between 1990 and 2000, HPEPB is projected to maintain high rates of
growth.  Energy sales are expected to increase by about 123 percent over 1990
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 8 percent.  Net
fixed assets in operation are expected to increase by about 548 percent over



- 40 -
current levels, repreosenting a compound annual growth rate of about 21 per-
cent. Annual capital expenditure is expected to increase by about 686 percent
over the 1990 level, representing a compound annual growth rate of about
23 percent. If HPEPB is to maintain its financial viability in the face of
this growth, the forecast implies that it will need to increase its average
revenue by 170 percent, from 10.65 fen/kWh in 1990 to 28.8 fen/kWh in 2000.
This represents a compound annual growth rate of about 10.5 percent in nominal
terms, or 4.7 percent per annum in real terms. As early as 1991, HPEPB would
have to introduce general tariff revisions in addition to the coal adjustments
already approved (para. 6.6).
6.12      Although conventional indicators of financial performance such as
rate of rettern and self-financing ratio have limited applicability to a gov-
ernment-controlled utility such as HPEPB (para. 6.2 and Annex 24), the rela-
tionships between pricing, operating costs, and size of investment program are
becoming increasingly important to MOE and SEIC. In their role as nationwide
managers of the sector, MOE and SEIC must arrange financing for the large and
rapidly expanding investment programs of the numerous power bureaus. In the
process they have become acutely aware of the need to mobilize appropriate
resources from the consumer. To further their efforts at resource mobiliza-
tion, assurances have been obtained that HPEPB will take measures. including
but not limited to tariff increases, to ensure that annually it earns a cash
surDlus (net ogeratina income) sufficient to meet at least 20 percent of its
three-year  averate investment protram for the years 1992-94. and at least
25 percent for the years thereafter. For HPEPB, the earned cash surplus
would be defined as total cash revenues (including income from the sale of
electricity and from connection charges) less the aggregate of (a) cash oper-
ating expenses; (b) interest charged to operations; (c) income taxes;
(d) gross increases in working capital (including changes in cash balances);
(e) net increases in Special Fund Assets; (f) loan repayments; and (g) Special
Fund Expenditures for Maintenarce and Employee Benefits. For purposes of this
agreement, the Adjustment Tax would not be considered a reduction in earned
cash because it is a remittance of a residual and not a tax built into the
cost structure and the proceeds are generally recycled into investments in the
sector. The average annual investment program would be defined as the average
of (a) the previous year's actual capital expenditure; (b) the current year's
planned capital expenditure; and (c) the next year's projected capital expen-
diture.
6.13      In view of HPEPB's increasing capital expenditures in the next 5-
6 years (from Y 1,414 million in 1992 to Y 4,125 million in 1997: an increase
of about 192 percent), the minimum self-financing ratio set at 20 percent
initially and 25 percent by the year 1995 cannot be considered an easy target.
Specifically, in order to comply consistently with the recommended self-
financing ratio target, the average revenue of HPEPB would have to be
increased by 9.5 percont per annum in nominal terms (or about 4 percent per
annum in real terms) during the projection period. Its self-financing ratio
is expected to average 25 percent; its rate of return on historically valued
assets is expected to average 19.6 percent; and its operating ratio is
expocted to average 70 percent. These already acceptable financial perfor-
mance indicators could improve substantially as the anticipated tariff reforms
are realized.



- 41 -
6.14      The Government's current policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital expenditure is expected to have an important effect on HPEPB
during the projection period. Under the current fiscal arrangement all capi-
tal investments except renovations and distribution improvements are to be
financed exclusively by loans. As a result, HPEPB is projected to move from a
capital structure which included only about 38 percent debt in 1990 to a
debt/total capital ratio of about 65 percent in 1997. While the assumption of
100 percent debt financing is the most conservative one and in any case HPEPB
ia not allowed to raise debt for any purpose other than capital investments,
HPEPB's debt/total capital ratio would not exceed 75 percent throughout the
projection period, which is acceptable. The debt/total capital ratio will be
used for monitoring RPEPB's financial operation in the future; HPEPB will
report it to the Bank annually. Debt service coverage, which is projected to
drop from about 7.1 in 1990 to about 1.4 in 1997, remains satisfactory;
however, this ratio should be monitored carefully. Assurances have been
obtained from HPEPB that it will incur additional debt only if a reasonable
forecast of its revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash gener-
ation would Drovide debt service coveraze of at  least 1.3.  This assurance,
taken in conjunction with HPEPB's agreement to annually furnish the Bank with
eight-year rolling financial projections (para. 3.12), is expected to draw
HPEPB's attention to the long-term financial impact of decisions relating to
its investment program.



- 42 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Need for the Pro1ect
7.1       CCPG is the third largest regional grid in China in terms of insta-
lled capacity (para. 4.1). HPG is one of the most important grids within
CCPG, providing 30 percent of the capacity (6,082 MW) and 33 percent of the
power generation (31,777 GWh). Shortages of generating capacity have been a
major constraint to economic development of the area.  The system's dependable
capacity of 3,968 MW 1/ is not sufficient to meet the peak demand of 3,956 -
MW. Even with purchased power there is not adequate reserve capacity. In
fact, the power load has been greatly suppressed. In 1990, power curtailments
by rotation of supply were enforced almost every day except during the spring
festival. Most industries were forced to operate only four days a week, caus-
ing considerable underutilization of plant facilities and manpower. In addi-
tion, there were 48 new applications from large consumers ready to receive
power in 1990.
7.2       The energy and capacity balances of the HPG system with and without
the two additional units of the Yanshi plant are shown in Table 7.1. These
balances clearly indicate the urgent need for the proposed project, since
without it HPEPB's reserve margin would be precarious and the system would not
be able to meet the energy requirement in the mid 1990s.
Table 7.1: ENERGY AND CAPACITY BALANCE
1995                1996              1997
Without   With    Without   With    Without   With
project  project  project  project  project  project
Peak demand (MW)            5,759    5,759    6,192    6,192    6,656    6,656
Dependable peaking
capacity (MW) /a          6,168    6,468    6,518    7,118    7,068    7,668
Reserve capacity
requirement (MW)            864       864       929      929       998      998
Power purchased (MW)           250      250       250      250
Capacity shortage
or surplus (MW)            -205        95     -353       247      -586        14
Energy requirement (GWh)  38,589   38,589   41,484   41,484   44,595   44,595
Energy generation          37,632   38,532   39,982   42,692   43,082   46,832
Energy purchased (GWh) /b    500        500       500      500        --        --
Energy shortage
or surplus (GWh)           -457       443   -1,002    1,698   -1,513    2,237
la  The dependable peaking capacity of a thermal unit is its rated capacity
unless it has to be derated for some reason.
/b The energy generation of thermal units is calculated at an annual capacity
factor of 68.5 percent (6,000 hours) for the first year, and 74.0 percent
(6,500 hours) for the second year and thereafter.
1/   Soe Annexes 9 and 10.



- 43 -
h. Least Cost Studies
7.3       An economic analysis of the Yanshi Power Plant, based on optimizing
the Henan System, has been prepared by WREPERI. Least cost expansion sequenc-
es have been developed for the period 1990-2000. This analysis confirmed that
the development program of HPG should depend largely on the construction of
large coal-fired base load thermal plants at mine-mouths or near railway lines
which can easily utilize coal from local mines and those of neighboring Shanxi
province.  The study also confirmed that there are no other alternatives bet-
ter than the proposed project.  Base load coal-fired plants form the major
part of the least cost development program for the HPG, and extension of the
existing Yanshi power station provides the most cost-effective and efficient
method of augmenting base load capacity. Since the site also is located close
to major load centers, only a minimum of transmission facilities would be
required.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.4       The economic benefits from electricity consumption were measured by
the internal economic rate of return (IERR). The IERR was calculated using
the estimated economic costs of inputs for the project and associated invest-
ments in transmission and distribution. HPEPB's projected average revenues
(adjusted to the 1991 price level) of 16.4 - 18.5 fen/kWh over the period
1995-2000, were taken as a minimum proxy for the economic value of
electricity. Added to these figures were a newly applied 2.0 fen/kWh charge
for power development to all consumers except lighting, agricultural use and
industries who operate at a loss, a 10 percent local government surcharge for
urban consumers, and connection charges to new large consumers. These
charges, amounting to 1.4 fen/kWh, were added to reflect the surplus benefits.
On this basis, the IERR is about 15.7 percent (see Annex 26 for details).
Sensitivity Analysis
7.5       The sensitivity of the IERR of the project was measured under three
other possible scenarios: (a) with a 10 percent increase in investment cost,
(b) with a one-year delay in commissioning and (c) with a coal price of Y130
per ton. It is unlikely that project parameters will exceed these limits.
The following results were obtained.
IERR (Z)
Base case                             15.7
101 cost overrun                     14.7
One-year delay in commilssioning      14.1
Coal prices increase from             14.7
Y 110/ton to Y 130/ton
7.6       The economic rate of return was also calculated on the basis of the
HPEPB's overall expansion program for the period 1991-2000. The expansion
program consists of 6,800 MW base load coal-fired plants, including the trans-
mission and distribution system. On this basis, the economic rate of return
of HPEPB's expansion program, including the proposed project, is 13.4 percent.



- 44 -
D. Ris!k
7.7       No major risks, including onvironmental problems are foreseen.
Since this is an extension project, land is already available and field
conditions are well known. The technical soundness and economic feasibility
of the project have been well established. Consulting engineers, both local
and foreign, will assist in engineering and design, procurement, coordination
and review of venders' design di-awings. Construction risks are within
reasonable limits and should be manageable with continuous supervision. The
economic risks, if any, should be minimal. The project has been designed
taking into account the requirement that the environmental impact from
operating the station not exceed the internationally accepted norms. An
environmental monitoring program is included in the project. HPEPB will
replace the precipitators for the existing 2x200 MW units by high efficiency
electrostatic precipitators.



- 45 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       During negotiations, the following assurances have been obtained:
(a) from the Government, that it will onlend the proceeds of the pro-
posed Bank loan to HPEPB on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para.
5.23) and;
(b) from HPEPB, that it will:
(i) furnish each year to the Bank by April 30 of each year,
commencing in 1993, a rolling eight-year financial plan
containing projected income statements, sources and application
of funds, and balance sheets (para. 3.12);
(ii) furnish its annual financial statements, certified by an accept
able auditor within six months from the end of each financial
year commencing in 1993 (para. 3.19);
(iii)  carry out the training in accordance with a program acceptable
to the Bank (para. 5.15);
(iv) carry out a tariff study and an action plan for tariff
structure improvements acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.16);
(v) take all necessary steps to implement an environmental monitor-
ing program satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.37);
(vi) take measures, including but not limited to increasing its
tariffs, to ensure that it earns a cash surplus (net operating
income) sufficient to meet a minimum of 20 percent of its
annual investment program for the period of 1992-1994, and a
minimum of 25 percent of its annual investment program
thereafter (para. 6.12); and
(vii)  incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash genera-
tion would provide debt service coverage of not less than 1.3
(para. 6.14).
8.2       Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and HPEPB will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 5.23).
8.3       Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of $180 million to the People's Republic of China for a term
of 20 years, including a 5-yeer grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



ANNEX I
- 46 -
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Installed Capacity. Electricity Generation
and Sales in the Power Sector
Installed                             Energy                  Energy
CaRacity (MW, /a                   Generation (GVh) /a           Salea/b
Year                Hydro     Thermal       Total       Hydro     Thermal       Total        (GWh)
1949                  163       1,686       1,849         710       3,600       4,310       3,460
1952                  188       1,776       1,964       1,260       6,001       7,261       6,277
1957                1,019       3,616       4,635       4,820      14,515      19,335       16,407
1962                2,379      10,686      13,065       9,042      36,753      45,795        n.a.
1965                3,020      12,056      15,076      10,414      57,190      67,604      56,802
1970                6,235      17,535      23,770      20,450      95,420     115,870        n.a.
1971                7,804      18,478      26,282      25,060     113,300     138,360      101,274
1972                8,700      20,801      29,501      28,820     123,630     152,450      123,600
1973               10,299      23,626      33,925      38,900     127,860     166,760      135,106
1974               11,817      26,291      38,108      41,440     127,410     168,850      135,708
1975               13,428      29,978      43,406      47,630     148,210     195,840      156,969
1976               14,655      32,492      47,147      45,640     157,490     203,130      164,698
1977               15,765      35,686      51,451      47,670     175,740     223,410     181,691
1978               17,277      39,845      57,122      44,630     211,920     256,550     210,239
1979               19,110      43,906      63,016      50,120     231,827     281,947     233,577
1980               20,318      45,551      65,869      58,211     242,416     300,627     251,639
1981               21,933      47,069      69,002      65,546     243,723     309,269     258,976
1982               22,959      49,401      72,360      74,399     253,279     327,678     275,299
1983               24,160      52,280      76,440      86,450     264,990     351,440     297,126
1984               25,547      54,373      79,920      86,780     290,207     376,987     319,600
1985               26,120      60,373      86,493      92,374     318,315     410,689     348,353
1986               27,542      66,276      93,818      94,480     355,091     449,571     357,057
1987               30,193      72,704     102,897     100,229     397,092     497,321     420,019
1988               32,698      o2,799     115,497     109,177     435,888     545,065     464,013
1989               34,570      92,060     126,637     118,475     466,200     584,675     495,135
1990               35,370      99,630     135,000     126,000     492,000     618,000     527,154
Average growth
rate (p.a.)                               11.02                               13.02        12.9Z
/a On a country-wide basis.
/b Energy sales not including uses by stations and captive plants.
Source: HOE.



ANNEX 2
- 47 -
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Growth Index of Electricity Generation and Primary Eneray Demand
Installed Capacity    Electricity Generation                Growth Index
Total     Share of    Total           Share of                 Primary       Electricity
Year           (NW)       hydro(2)    (TWh)           hydro(2)      GNP         Energy      Generation
1979         63,015.9       30.3      281.9            17.8        100          100              100
1980         65,869.1       30.8      300.6            19.4         108          103             107
1981         69,132.6       31.7      309.3            21.2         113          102             110
1982         72,359.6       31.7      327.7           22.7          122         106              116
1983         76,444.9       31.6      351.4           24.6         135          110              125
1984         80,116.9       31.9      377.0           23.0         155          121              134
1985         87,053.2       30.3      410.7           22.5          174         132              144
1986         93,818.5       29.4      449.6           21.0          189         136              159
1987         102,897.0      29.3      497.3           ?0.2         210           141             176
1988         115,497.1      28.3      545.1           20.0         233           148             193
1989         126,638.6      27.0      584.7           20.2         242          157              207
1990        135,000.0       26.2      618.0           20.4         255          160              219
Source: MOE



- 48-                             ANNE 
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Electricity Consumption by Sectors
Share of
Nation's   Share of industry (Z)    transport-    Share of rural        Share of
Year           total     Whole   Heavy   Light        ation         (including       municipal &
(TWh)                                  (S)        household (2)    residential (X)
1949             3.5      69.1   34.4   34.7            0.6            0.6             29.8
1952             6.2      80.0   43.0   37.0            0.9            0.7              18.4
1957            16.4      82.9   58.6   24.3            0.4            0.7              16.0
1962            37.8      84.6   70.0   14.6            0.6            4.1              10.7
1966            70.0      84.1   69.1   15.0            0.6            7.8              7.5
1972           123.6      82.3   69.7   12.6            0.6           10.5              6.6
1976           164.7      78.3   64.6   13.7            1.1           14.1              6.5
1977           186.3      78.5   65.0   13.5            1.2           13.7              6.6
1978           214.9      79.0   65.9   13.1            1.1           13.7              6.3
1979           233.6      79.0   65.9   13.1            0.6           13.9              6.5
1980           251.6      77.9   64.5   13.4            0.6           14.9              6.6
1981           259.0      76.2   62.6   13.6            0.8           16.0              7.0
1982           275.3      76.0   62.0   14.0            0.7           16.0              7.6
1983           297.1      75.7   60.9   14.8            0.7           16.0              7.6
1984           319.6      75.2   60.5   14.7            0.8           15.9              8.1
1985           348.5      73.8    58.8    15.0          0.9           16.5              8.8
1986           379.7      72.9   57.7   15.2            1.2           16.4              9.5
1987           423.5      72.5   57.9   14.6            1.2           16.4              9.9
1988           461.3      71.3   57.3   14.5            1.9           16.4              9.9
1989           495.2      71.0   53.9   17.1            1.9           16.7              10.4
1990           524.7      69.k   52.1    17.3           2.0           17.3              11.3
Source: MOE



- 49  -                                APage 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Onaoinst Nalor Hydro and Thenmal Power Proiects by External Financing
Under the Seventh and Eighth live-Year Plans La
Installed      Year of                                        Loan
capacity      commis-                                      amount
(Unit x MW)   sioning      Source of finanee               ( mln)
HYDRO POWER
East China
Shaqikou hydro                   3 x 75       1988-90     Kuwait Fund for Arab Eco-          32.5
nomic Development
North China
Ming Tombs pumped storage        4 x 200      1997-99      OECF loan                         46.0
Panjiakou pumped storage         3 x 90       1989-90      Government of Italy               38.7
Central China
Geheyan hydro                    4 x 300      1993-95      Canada Supplier's Credit         108.0
Wuqiangqi hydro                  5 x 240      1994         OECF loan                        153.0
Southwest China
Tienshengqiao (II) hydro         4 x 220      1990-92      OECF loan                        600 0
Tienshengqiao (I) hydro          4 x 300      1998-99      OECF loan                        230.0
Subtotal                        5.775                                                    1 208 2
TL  POWER
East China
Nanton thermal                   2 x 350      1989         USA-GE, Supplior's Credit        180.0
Shidongkou thermal               2 x 600      1992         USA, France, Japan, Sup-         350.0
plier's Credit
Fuzhou thermal                   2 x 350      1989         Japan, Supplier's Credit         180.0
North China
Tienjin Beidagang thermal        2 x 320      1991         Italy, Government conces-        200.0
sional loan and Supplier's
Credit
Shangan thermal                  2 x 350      1989         Canada, USA-GE, Supplier's       180.0
Credit
East Beijing thermal             2 x 300      1994-95      OECF loan                        150.0
Hejing the3mal                   2 x 300      1994-95      OECF loan                        150.0



-50                                    NNEX 4
Page 2
Installed      Year of                                        Loan
capacity      commis-                                      amount
(Unit x KW)   sioning      Source of finance               ($ mln)
THERHAL POWER (cont'd)
Northeast China
Dalian thermal                   2 x 350      1989         Japan-Mitsubishi, Suppli-        180.0
er's Credit
Central China
Yueyang thermal                  2 x 360      1990-94      UK, 1/2 Government conces-       190.0
sional loan and 1/2 Sup-
plier's Credit
Ezhou thermal                    2 x 300      1994-95      OECF loan                        190.0
Jiujiang thermal                 2 x 300      1994-95     OECF loan                         190.0
South China
Guangdong Shajiao thermal        2 x 350      1987         Japan-Mitsubishi, Suppli-        230.0
er'8 Credit
Shantou gas turbines             3 x 10.5     1987-88      France, Supplier's Credit         33.8
Southwest China
Chongqing Lohuang thermal        2 x 350      1991-92     UK, France/Japan, 1/2 Gov-        250.0
ernment concessional loan
and 1/2 Supplier's Credit
Chongqing gas turbines           3 x 10.5     1987-88     EEC Credit and UK Govern-          12.6
ment Loan
Subtotal                        14,997                                                   2.666.4
Total                           20.772                                                   3.874.6
la World Bank-financed projects are not included.



- 51 -                                         ANNEX 5
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Performance Indicators for Henan Power System
1984      1985      1986       1987      1988       1989       1990
Installed Capacity (NW)        3,393.2   3,926.5   4,147.9   4,549.4   4,944.8   5,451.1   6,081.6
HPEPB                        2,761.0   3,261.0   3,461.0   3,722.0   3,922.0   4,122.0   4,522.0
Local & captive plants         632.2      665.5     686.9      829.4   1,022.8   1,329.1   1,559.6
Energy Generation (GWh)         19,772    20,854    23.074    25,837    27,643    30,066    31,777
HPEPB                         17,181    17,922    19,921    22,082    22,900    24,450    25,186
Local & captive plants         2,591      2,932     3,153      3,755     4,743      5,616     6,591
Energy Generation (GWh)         19,772    20,854    23,074    25,837    27,643    30,066    31,777
Thermal                       18,282    19,415    21,805    24,611    26,394    28,507    30,373
Hydro                          1,390      1,439     1,269      1,225     1,249      1,559     1,404
Net Energy Purchase (GWh)      1,568.4   1,843.0   1,453.0   1,390.2   1,568.3   2,755.8   1,967.0
HPEPB                        1,174.0   1,540.0      710.0   1,037.0   1,060.6   2,283.2   1,417.0
Capacity Factor (Z)               66.5       60.6      63.5       64.8      63.8       62.9      59.6
HPEPB                           71.0       68.0      65.7       67.7      66.6       67.7      63.6
Local & captive plants          46.8       50.3      52.4       51.7      52.9       48.3      48.4
Peak Demand (MW)
HPEPB                          2,512      2,682     3,015      3,387     3,658      3,932     3,956
Energy Sales (GWh)
HPEPB                         16,056    17,204    17,869    19,903    20,585    23,200    23,761
System Losses (GWh)              2,299      2,438     2,762      3,216     3,375      3,533     3,543
Plant use (1)                   7.77       7.81      7.86       7.87      7.83       8.04      8.59
HPEPB                         7.53       7.63      7.67       7.69      7.62       7.76      8.38
Local & captive plants        9.95       9.40      9.30       9.52      9.14       9.47      9.48
T & D losses (2)               10.19       9.59     10.60      10.18      9.36       9.92      9.43
HPEPB                         5.85       5.96      6.44       6.69      6.59       6.56      6.02
Total (Z)                      16.22      15.88     16.72      16.61     16.50      17.70     17.20
HPEPB                        12.26      12.34     12.92      13.32     14.10      14.50     14.10
Average coal consumption
(standard coal) (g/kwh)            419        417       417        409       407        412       411
HPEPB                            399        396       395        385       379        377       375
Local & captive plants           585        592       578        568       572        564       548
Number of customers            159,040   176,589   186,824   218,730   253,603   265,754   275,404
Number of Employees             39,539    41,278    43,949    45,473    47,771    48,268    48,692
Customers per Enpl3yee         406,080   416,783   405,674   481,010   530,839   550,580   565,604
Source: HPEPB



- 52 -                               ANNEX 6
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Staff of HPEPB
(As of December 31, 1990)
Number of units       Number of staff          X
By Specialitv
Staaff
Administration /a                                       4,311              8.8
Technical
Engineers                                             2,047              4.2
Technicians                                           3,549              7.3
Subtotal                                               9.907             20.3
Workers
Junior                                                    9,997
Average skilled                                          13,592
Highly skilled                                            7,022
Apprentices                                               1,112
Subtotal                                              31.723             65.2
Others                                                      7,062             14.5
Total                                                 48.692            100.0
By Functional Users
Headquarters                         15                     460              1.0
Generation                           10                  21,799             44.7
Supply and services                  12                  13,621             21.9
Construction and installation         4                   8,892             18.3
Education                             5                     958              2.0
Design                                1                     725              1.5
Repair                                2                   1,353              2.8
Miscellaneous Lb                      5                     884              1.8
Total                             54                  48.692            100.0
la  Including personnel, finance and accounting, and social welfare.
/b  Including one research institute and material supply enterprise.



ANNEX 7
5 3 -                             Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Planning, Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaus
1.        All power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plans.  These plans are integrated with the
national plans and approved by SPC through MOE and SEIC auspices.  MOE and
SEIC play a major role in shaping the bureaus' individual plans.  MOE, in
conjunction with regional administrations, uses past operating results from
the bureaus to compile the quantities and related prices to be used by the
bureaus in developing their operating plans.  The investment plans are devel-
oped on a project-by-project basis using estimates of quantities and prices of
inputs included in feasibility studies prepared by the regional design insti-
tutes. However, the investment plans do not take into account movements in
prices after the final design is completed. Thus, in the planning process,
the bureaus them selves do not make a direct linkage between their projected
and realized costs. The bureaus' operating plans do include monitoring indi-
cators, and variance analyses are conducted to compare quantities actually
produced or consumed with plan targets. Because the bureaus themselves do not
link their plan targets directly to realized financial performance, the vari-
ance analyses have limited usefulness as measures of the efficiency of their
operations and the cost effectiveness of their investment programs. Still,
this approach to planning has served reasonably well within the environment of
a centrally planned economy, where large grants were used to finance large
portions of investment and prices were maintained at stable levels.
2.        Until 1980, all funds required to implement the annual construction
plans were provided through grants allocated from the State budget. The State
also provided minor amounts of financing to cover liquidity requirements
through an account entitled Working Capital Funds. Under China's economic
reform program which began around 1978, major changes have been introduced to
encourage economic use of the Government's limited resources. Funds for major
new investments are now being provided in the form of loans from the People's
Construction Bank of China. These loans are made only after projects have
been reviewed extensively and cost estimates have been approved. In addition
to construction loans, which now bear an annual interest rate of about 3.6Z,
non-repayable government contributions are provided for liquidity; these carry
annual finance charges of 3Z. The construction loans are scheduled for repay-
ment over 15 years after work is completed.
3.        Until 1984, the prices the power bureaus paid for the constituents
of operating and investment costs were kept fairly constant. However, since
then the Government has announced that it is relaxing controls over the pric-
ing system and will allow prices gradually to move toward market levels. In
the future, as the power bureaus continue to expand their operations and as
costs become more variable, planning and budgeting will be based more and more
on actual cost data and projections of productivity improvements, future price
movements, and interest rates. Furthermore, as the cost of inefficiency



- 54                               ANNEX 7
Page 2
increases over time, management will need better tools to evaluate and control
the operations of individual cost centers.
4.        The Chines, system of planning and budgeting does not make provision
for long term financi,. planning.  In connection with the Lubuge Hydroelectric
Project (Loan 2382-CHA), the Bank furnished NWREP with a financial forecasting
model so that the power bureaus could study the impact of both their expansion
plans and variations in prices on their future financial positions. Under all
subaequent Bank-financed power projecto, assurances have been obtained that,
by December 31 of each year commencing in the year following loan signing, the
beneficiary power bureau will furnish the Bank with a financial plan contain-
ing forecast income statements, sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets
for the next five to eight years. So far, Yunnan, Jiangsu, Guangxi, Fujian,
Zhejiang and Shanghai Power Bureaus have been required to furnish such rolling
plans.
5.        MOE and SEIC recognize that they need to modernize the financial and
management procedures followed by the power bureaus. They have authorized
many bureaus to acquire microprocessors for financial, planning, and adminis-
trative purposes. In addition, they have developed some software to allow the
bureaus to produce standard computerized reports on a regular basis. For
their part, most of the power bureaus which already are dealing with the Bank
have computerized some of their personnel, payroll, and administrative records
and are adapting software to computerize materials management, system plan-
ning, and production management. Once the bureaus finish computerizing these
records, they all will be expected to furnish monthly reports to MOE and SEIC
on diskettes rather than on paper. Some of the Bank-financed projects have
included a provision allowing the beneficiary power bureaus to obtain addi-
tional microprocessors and allowing them and MOE to obtain the software sup
port needed to facilitate implementation of this first generation of computer-
ized reporting.
6.        The first generation of computerized reporting should allow MOE,
SEIC, and the power bureaus themselves to process, compile, consolidate and
retain far more information than in the past. However, the computer
approaches used to date have been designed almost exclusively to satisfy the
reporting requirements of MOE and SEIC. The software does not allow for a
more active role for the power bureaus or for a broader use of data by bureau
management. Moreover, the systems being developed still do not include rudi-
mentary financial planning or allow the necessary direct linkages between
realized performance and planning forecasts. Thus, while the systems repre-
sent much progress over current reporcing systems, a second generation of
reporting systems will be needed to accommodate changes already in progress in
the managerial environment.
7.        During appraisal of the Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-
CHA), the Bank retained a consultant to assess the management and use of data
in MWREP and several power bureaus. His findings confirm that the systems
currently being developed are adequate for the existing environment but are
not flexible enough to adapt to expected future trends. However, MOE and SEIC
have doubts about the substance and extent of these anticipated changes and



- 5S -                             ANNEX 7
Page 3
prefer to be cautious about making further adjustments to reporting procedures
in the near term.
8.        In considering ways to modernize financial and management practices,
the Government is taking the initiative in adapting a modern methodology for
use in the Chinese environment. However, given the additional adjustments
that are likely to become necessary within a few years, the Government would
benefit from greater exposure to state-of-the-art technology in management
systems. Under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA), the
Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the Shuikou Hydroelectric Proj-
ect (Loan 2775-CHA) and the Wujing Thermal Power Project (Loan 2852-CHA), the
Government is obtaining training in up-to-date financial ranagement and util-
ity accounting practices. Overseas training and study tours are included in
these projects so that senior officials of relevant governmental units can
observe the management techniques used by utilities and service organizations
in other countries. The first overseas training was held in May 1988, and the
outcome was successful. MOE and SEIC plan to have other training sessions in
coming years.



-56-                              ANNEX 8
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Electricity Tariffs of HPEPB /a
(As of December 31, 1990)
Tariff category                                     Rate                    Unit
Lighting
Up to 1 kV                                      16.2-20.0                fen/kWh
Over 1 kV                                       15.0 . J.0               fen/kWh
Averafte                                    20.41/b                   fen/kWh
Commercial and Small Industry /c
Up to 1 kV                                      12.52                    fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                        12.01                     fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                     11.07                    fen/kWh
Averate                                     12.15/b                   fen/kWh
Larme Industry (above 320 kVA)
Energy charge Ld
1-10 kV                                        11.59                     fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                     10.75                    fen/kWh
Capacity (per month)
Based on peak demand                            6.00                     Yuan/kW
Based on average capacity                        4.00                    Yuan/kW
Averane                                     11.00/b                   fen/kWh
Agricultural Production (Direct Supply)
Up to 1 kV                                       8.68                    fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                        10.08                     fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                      7.28                    fen/kWh
Averaae                                      8.68/b                   fen/kWh
Bulk SupplV
Average                                          8.62/b                  fen/kWh
Others
Average                                         15.95                    fen/kWh
Total Average                               10.65                     fenlkWh
1L  The indicated rates include a sales tax of about 15I  of the electricity
bill.
Ib Including fuel adjustment and additional charge for consumption above the
approved amount.
la This tariff is applied to productive uses. Lighting consumption by
commercial and small industrial customers is billed at the lighting rate.
J/ Industries enjoy a fen/kWh discount.
Sourcet HPEPB.



ANNEX 9
- 57 -                            Pa    1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Maior Goneratina Facilities in Henan Province
Name of                            Name plate         Year of           Maximum
plant/unit                           rating        commissioning          output
(MW)                                (MW)
Luovanx Thermal
No. 1                               25.0             1957                25.0
No. 2                               25.0             1958                25.0
No. 3                               25.0             1958                25.0
No. 4                               25.0             1959                25.0
No. 5                               25.0             1960                25.0
No. 6                               50.0             1961                50.0
Subtotal                        175.0                               175.0
Zhenazhou Thermal Plant No. 1
No. 1                               12.5             1957                10.5
No. 2                               12.5             1957                10.5
No. 3                                6.0             1965                 0.0
No. 4                               10.0             1960                 8.0
No. 5                               25.0             1965                25.0
No. 6                               25.0             1966                25.0
No. 7                               25.0             1967                25.0
Subtotal                        116.0                                104.0
Xinxiant Thermal
No. 1                               50.0             1966                50.0
No. 2                               50.0             1968                50.0
No. 3                               50.0             1969                50.0
No. 4                              200.0             1989               200.0
No. 5                              200.0             1990               200.0
Subtotal                        550.0                               550.0
Hanzant Thermal
No. 1                                6.0             1966                 4.0
No. 2                                6.0             1968                 4.0
Subtotal                         12.0                                 8.0



ANNEX 9
5-                            Page 2
Name of                             Name plate         Year of            Maximum
plant/unit                            rating        coAmissioning          output
(MW)                                 (MW)
Yanshi Thermal
No. 1                               200.0             1988               200.0
No. 2                               200.0             1989               200.0
Subtotal                         400.0                                400*0
Anvana Thermal
No. 1                                   -             Retired                -
No. 2                                                 Retired                -
No. 3                                25.0             1960                20.0
No. 4                                25.0             1961                20.0
No. 5                                40.0             1972                40.0
No. 6                                50.0             1975                50.0
No. 7                               100.0             1977               100.0
No. 8                               100.0             1977               100.0
Subtotal                         340.0                                330.0
Kaifena Thermal
No. 1                                40.0             1973                40.0
No. 2                                40.0             1974                40.0
No. 3                               125.0             1978               120.0
No. 4                               125.0             1978               110.0
Subtotal                         330.0                                310.0
Yaomena Thermal
No. 1                               300.0             1975               270.0
No. 2                               300.0             1980               240.0
No. 3                               300.0             1985               300.0
No. 4                               300.0             1987               300.0
Subtotal                       1.200.0                              1.110.0
Danhe Thermal
No. 1                               100.0             1973               100.0
No. 2                               100.0             1975               100.0
Subtotal                         200.0                                200.0



-59-                              ANNEX 9
Page 3
Name of                            Name plate         Year of            Maximum
plant/unit                           rating        commissioning          output
(MW)                                (NW)
Jiaozuo ThenMal
801                                     -            Retired
802                                     -            Retired
803                                     -            Retired
804                                     -            Retired
805                                  12.0            1960                 0.0
806                                 12.0             1964                 8.0
No. 1                              200.0             1979               200.0
No. 2                              200.0             1980               200.0
No. 3                              200.0             1985               200.0
No. 4                              200.0             1986               200.0
Subtotal                        824.0                                808.0
Pinadingshen Thermal
No. 1                               50.0             1970                50.0
No. 2                               50.0             1971                47.0
No. 3                               25.0             1987                25.0
Subtotal                        125.0                                122.0
S      5mexia H   adro /a
No. 1                               50.0             1977
No. 2                               50.0             1976
No. 3                               50.0             1976
No. 4                               50.0             1973
No. 5                               50.0             1979
Subtotal                        250.0                                250.0
HPEPB Total                   4.522.0                              4.367.0
Local and Captive Plants            1.559.6                                    -
,otal                         6.081.6                              4.367.0
/a Owned and operated by the Yellow River Water Conservancy Commission but
dispatched by HPEPB.
Source:  HPEPB.



AEN  10
CHINA
YARSHI TEERMAL POWMR PROJECT
Enerav Consumption by Catesorv of Consumer la
1985              1986              1987              1988               1989              1990
Consuwer                         GWh        2       GWh        2      GWh        2      cWh        2      cWh        2       GWh        2
Rural load
Iiting                         259       1.4      297      1.5      343      1.5      386      1.6-     441       1.7      645      2.3
Draing  & irrigation         1,108      5.8   P.394        6.9    1,392      6.2    1,738      7.2    1,920       7.4    1,316      4.7
Rw8al processing &
industries                 2,347     12.5    2,218      11.2   2,690      V. 9    2,583     10.7    2,984     11.5   3,237       11.4
Subtotal                  3.741     19.6   3.969       19.5   4.425      19.6    4.707     19.5   5.345      20.6    5.198      18.4
Industrial load
L10t                         2,398     12.5    2,558      12.6   2,935      13.0   3,259      13.5   3,633      14.0    3,582      12.7
Esa""                       11,420     60.0   12,143      59.7  13,288      58.9  13,880      57.5  14,532      56.0  16,321       57.8
Subtotal                 13.818     72.6   14.701      72.5  16.223      71.9   17.139     71.0  18.165      70.0   19.904      70.5
Mukicival load
Urban lighting                 775      4.1       767      3.8      848      3.8      917      3.8      986      3.8    1,400       4.9
Water supply & drainage        244       1.3      265      1.3      271      1.2      289      1.2      337       1.3      423      1.51
Nonindustrial power            210       1.1      228      1.1      248      1.1      265      1.1      311      1.2       367      1.3       o
Others                         158      0.8       182      0.9      213      0.9      241      1.0      259      1.0      324       1.2       1
Subtotal                  1.387      7.3    1.442       7.1   1.580       7.0   1.714       7.1   1.894       7.3   2.514       8.9
Trananoration                    103      0.5       166      0.8      352      1.5      458      1.9      560      2.1      608      2.2
Total                    19.048    100.0  20.327    100.0  22.580    100.0  24.140    100.0  25.950    100.0  28.224    100.0
la Statistics were based on the province as a whole.
Source: BPEPB.



- 61 -                          ANNEX 11
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Power Development Program of HPG (1991-2000)
A. Generating Stationg
Installed                       Unit    Scheduled
capacity               No. of  size  Commissioning
(MW)     Location    units   (MW)        date
Jiaozuo 3rd stage               400     Jiaozuo        2      200    1991,1992
eobi                            400     Hobi           2      200    1991,1992
Zhongzhou (cogeneration)        400     Zhengzhou      2      200    1992,1993
Sazimenzia I                    600     Samenxia       2      300    1993,1994
Yanehi phase II                 600     Yanshi         2      300    1995,1996
Yahokou                         700     Nanyang        2      350    1995,1996
Luoyang Extension               400     Luoyang        2      200    1996,1997
Yaomeng IV                      600     Pingdingshan  2       300    1997,1998
Qinbei I                      1,200     Jiyuan         2      600    1998,1999
Sanmenxia II                  1,200     Sanmanxia      2      600    1999,2000
Yongeheng                       600     Yongeheng      1      300       2000
Total                    6.800
B. Transmission Lineg
Length   Voltage
Name                                                 (kW)     level   Completion
Associated Transmission for Generation Proiecto
Jiaozuo 3rd stage                                   166      220        1992
Habi                                                201      220        1992
Zhongzhou (cogeneration)                             37      220       1993
Sanmenxia 1                                         367      220       1995
Yanshi phase II                                     350      220        1995
Yahekou                                             550      220        1996
Luoyang Extension                                    76      220       1996
Yaomeng IV                                          296      220        1998
Qinbei 1                                            150      500       1999
350      220       1999
Sanmenxia II                                        300      500       2000
Yongchang                                           150      220       2000
Other Lints fc- System Exwansion                      250      220  1992-2000
Ioal                                          3.243



ANNEX 12
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
System Demand and Enerzv Balance of HPG
System demand       System capacitv       Energy      Power purchased       Power balance reserve
Year         Peak    Energy  Installed  Dependable  generated   Capacity  Energy   Capacity   Margin   Energy
(MW)    (GWh)      (MW)        (MW)        (GWh)        (MW)     (GWh)      (MW)       (Z)     (GWh)
1988        3,658   24,140    3,922       3,467/alb   22,900         250     1,240        59        1.6        -
1989        3,932   25,950    4,122       3,667        24,450        250     1,500       -15          -        -
1990        3,956   26,330    4,522       3,968        25,186        250     1,144       262       6.6         -
1991        4,313   28,896    4,922       4,368        26,732        250     2,164       305        7.1        -
1992        4,636   31,063    5,522       4,768        29,132        250     1,931       382       8.2         -
1993        4,984   33,393    6,022       5,368        32,532        250       861       634      12.7         -
1994        5,358   35,897    6,322       5,868        35,632        250       265       760      14.2         -
1995        5,759   38,589    6,972       6,468        38,532        250       500       959      16.6         -
1996        6,192   41,484    7,822       7,118        42,682        250       500    1,176       14.9    1,698/c   >
1997        6,565   44,595    8,322       7,668        46,832          -         -    1,012       15.2    2,237/c
1998        7,228   47,940    9,222       8,168        50,032          -         -       940      13.0    2,0921c
1999        7,792   51,535   10,422       9,068        55,032          -         -    1,276       16.3    3,497/c
2000        8,400   55,400   11,322    10,268          61,932          -          -    1,868      22.2    6,532/c
la  Definitions of dependable capacity and energy generation by thermal units are given in Table 7.1.
lb  The dependable capacity of HPEPB in 1988 is calculated as follows:  4,944.8 - 1,022.8 (local and captive
plants not connected to the system) - 255 (derated capacity) - 200 (capacity coapleted at end-1988).
Le  Energy available for export to CCPG.



- 63-                              ANNEX 13
- 63 -                           Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Training Proaram
Training Obiectives and Needs
1.        In order to make management more efficient, high level staff of
HPEPB will have to improve their professional skills, understand the strate-
gies of decision-making, and learn how to use relevant methods and software
for decision making.
2.        The training program has the following broad objectives:
(a) to allow HPEPB to function as an autonomous entity able to raise and
operate its own funds, as planned under the newly reformed economic
system;
(b   to equip HPEPB with a management information system and other modern
techniques to assist it in making sound management decisions; and
(c)  to allow HPEPB to set an example for the senior staff of power
plants and power supply bureaus to enhance their performance and
promote energy sales.
3.        In order for high level staff to develop the required decision-mak-
ing capabilities, it is essential that they receive training in the following
spheres: planning of grid expansion, planning of power system investments,
management of funds, setting up of electricity tariff poliuy, accounting and
sales management (including management of the cost of power bought from other
systems), personnel management and labor training, computer technology, infor-
mation processing systems, and regulations and contract management.
4.        Because new recruits must receive pre-service training at various
levels, existing training centers and professional schools will need to be
provided with sophisticated training facilities such as simulators, computers
and audio-visual teaching aids. Similarly, their laboratories and workshops
will have to be equipped with advanced technology. The professional skills of
teaching staff, particularly the teachers of professional schools, also will
need to be upgraded.
The Training Proaram
5.        The training program will include:  (a) a training program for high
level staff; (b) a training program for technicians and engineers (seei
Table 2); (c) procurement of training equipment; and (d) a training program
for the teaching staff of professional schools.



ANNEX 13
- 64-                           Page 2
6.        The training program for high level staff will be carried out in
three steps: systematic study, investigation, and practical application (see
Table 1). In the first step, high level staff of HPEPB, including division
chiefs, will investigate and study the management systems of foreign electric
power companies similar to HPEPB. In the second step, HPEPB staff will review
managerial methodology and technology and prepare action programs and propos-
als to improve management of the bureau. Further, high level staff of large
power plants and power supply bureaus will investigate and study a similar
foreign power plant and an electricity distribution company. They will formu-
late proposals to improve the management of their own power plants and power
supply bureaus. In the third step, the action plans will be implemented.
HPEPB, the power plants and power supply bureaus will carry out improvements
in their management at all levels after their action plans are approved by the
Central China Electric Power Administration and the Bank. HPEPB's financial
staff will participate in the overseas and domestic seminars which MOE is now
planning to organize under Power III-VII.
7.        Under the proposed project an action program for training is
provided, shown in Table 1. A training program for high level staff through
seminars in China and overseas training is shown in Table 2 and a project-
related training programs for technical staff is shown in Table 3. A list of
training programs for schools is given in Table 4. A development plan for the
existing schools is given in Table 5.
S.        The implementation schedule is as follows:
Completion Date
(a)  Detailed training program for
high level staff                          September 30, 1992
(b)  Overseas training and investigation         September 30, 1993
(c)  Action Programs and proposals to
improve management                       September 30, 1994
(d)  Training for engineering and
design staff                              June 30, 1993
(e)  Training for operation and
maintenance staff                         December 31, 1994
(f)  Training for electrical and
mechanical staff                          December 31, 1994
(g)  Expansions of the existing schools          December 31, 1996



ANNEX 13
Page 3
Table 1: ACTION PkOGRAM FOR T1AINIE
Objectives                               Proposed action                           Status of progress
To provide high-level staff with the            Provide ad hoc training, send senior           A detailed training program is being
skills needed to meet the circumstances        staff on study tours, revise existing           prepared by  PEPB.
of the nineties:  modern and larger power      management and accounting systems, and
plants, larger automated grid with auto-       advise and recommend necessary reforms to
mated load dispatch system, higher volt-        senior manageent.
age transmission, wodern account-
ing/costing/pricing and a self-sustained
investment planning organization.
To ensure smooth implemntation of the          Provide project-related training to:            Training schemes are being Integrated
proposed project on technical matters,                                                         into the bidding documents for major
and good follow-up after the project is         (a) engineering and design staff for the       equipment (Table 3).
completed,                                     project through on-the-job training with
the Consulting Engineers engaged for this
project and liaison meeting.
(b) operation and maintenance staff,
using those facilities available in China
which are sinilar to the facilities of
thls project, and
(c) electrical and mechanical staff work-
ing on the power plant construction site
by the vendors of major equipment for
this project in their factory or on site.
To increase the outrut of existing  PEPIB       Aueent the training capacity of all five       School development plans have been pre-
schools and i prave the quality of such        exi ting schools of HPPI.                       pared ty HPEPB (Table 5).
output in order to raise the percentage
of annual new recruits from own institu-       Upgrade the equipment used in workshops         An equipment list has been prepared by
tions and to provide for higher quality        and laboratories and provide modern             HP8PJ (Table I).
input to DPEl,.                                facilities such as simulators, computers
and language laboratories.



- 66-                              ANNEX 13
Page 4
Table 2: TRAINING PROGRAM FOR HIGH LEVEL STAFF AND TEACHING STAFF
A. Specialists Recuired for Seminars in China /a
Number of      Number of    Duration
Traininx irogram                           trainees     specialists    (months)
Planning                                       25             2            1.0
Financial manaaement                           25             3            1.0
Personnel management                           10              1           1.0
Management information systems                 25              4           3.0
Load dispatch and automation                   25             2            2.0
Total                                    110            12
B. Overseas Training
Number of                         Duration
Organization                         trainees                           (months)
HPEPB                                   20                                1.0
Power plant                             10                                2.0
Power supply bureaus                    10                                2.0
Teaching staff                           6                                6.0
Environmental monitoring unit            4                                2.0
La Seminars may be carried out in association with other power bureaus.



67 -                              ANNEX 13
Page 5
Table 3: TRAINING PROGRAM FOR TECHNICAL STAFF
Category of staff           Number of trainees                         Man-months
A. Training for Engineering and Design Staff Throuah Liaison Meetings
Design staff                                 20                                 80
Engineering staff                            25                                i00
Total                                   45                               180
B.  Training for Electrical and Mechanical Staff
Construction management                       5                                 10
Installation                                 10                                20
Testing                                       5                                 10
Inspection                                   10                                40
Operation                                    10                                60
Maintenance                                  10                                 60
Total                                   50                               200
C.  Trainina for Operation and Maintenance Staff
Operation engineers                          30                               300
Maintenance engineers                        30                                150
Total                                   60                               450
Note: Training for A and B will be included in the Vendor's Contract.
Training for C will be carried out in China under the technical
services.



Page 6
Table 4: TRAINING EQUIPMENT TO BE IMPORTED
Description                        Quantity     Unit           Remarks
Main parts and auxiliaries
for VAX 8250 computer                1         set      See note below
WI-7700N senior type                  48          set     One set of phonetic
teaching equipment for
48 seats
Video tape for operation and
maintenance of plant                 1          lot
Video tape for operation of
transmission and distribution        I         lot
Software of management and
training                             1         lot
Notes VAX 8250 type computer auxiliaries includeds
1. Built-in memory 128 MB.
2. Other auxiliaries including control desk, drum, tape, network
supporting module, module input and output, digital input and
output.
3. Software.
4. Major parts of computer.



- 69 -                                      ANNEX 13
Page 7
Table 5a DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR EXISTING SCHOOLS
Capacity
Present caDacity        after develoyment      Cost estimated (Y'0O00
Bnroll-          Grad-   Enroll-          Grad-   Civil   Equip-
lame of School              ment    Staff   uates    ment    Staff  uatee   works    ment    Total
Zhangzhou Secondary
Technical School           840     247           2,000      675     560    8,324   3,700   12,024
College level              200       -      -       720       -     240         -       -        -
Secondary level            640       -    240    1,280        -     320         -       -        -
Henan Staff College          200      60       -      360     100     120         -       -        -
Henan Technical School            t
for Skilled Workers        775     245    281    1,000      313     320    2,431   1,455    3,886
lanyang Technical School
for Skilled Workers        340     164    118      720      226     240    3,795   1,091    4,886
Anyang Technical School
for Skilled Workers        180      59      -      360       90     120         -       -        -
Total                2,335      802    639    5.720   1.404   1.360   14.550   6.246   20.796



- 70-                              ANNEX 14
Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Pawer Tariff Structure Improvements
Background
1.        The power tariff study of Henan Province is being carried out by
HPEPB with the assistance of WREPERI and an interim report was submitted to
the World Bank in June 1991. The action plan of power tariff structure
improvements shall be conducted phase by phase and step by step, in accordance
with the actual characteristics and specific conditions of the Henan Power
Grid.
Obiectives
2.        The main objectives of the action plan ares
(a) to achieve a gradual transition towards a unified tariffs
(b) to increase the capacity charge of large-size industrial consumers
to better reflect the relative cost of capacity and energy;
(c) to conduct test cases and gradually implement a time-of-day power
tariff system for peak and off-peak power consumption; and
(d) to reform the bulk sale pcvwer tariff.
Action Plan
3.        Proaram for the First Year (to be completed in 1992)
(a) Completion of the power tariff study to determine target power tar-
iff levels, tariff structure and implementation steps for tariff
reform.
(b) Particular attention will be given to the preparation of a detailed
proposal for the process of unification and to the evaluation of
this process, targeted for implementation within a five-year period.
This proposal and the implementation schedule will be subject to the
approval of related agencies and reviewed by the Bank before imple-
mentation.
Program for the Followina Years (Implementation)
Specific components to be implemented in the framework of the restructuring
program are as follows:



- 71 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
4.        Second Year Execution Program (to be completed in 1993)
(a) To increase the capacity charge for large and medium-size industrial
consumers, so as to make the ratio between capacity charge and
energy charge more reasonable.
(b) To carry out the test-case for time-of-day tariff system which dif-
ferentiates between peak power consumption and off-peak power con-
umption and to select test-case consumers based on the specific
conditions in the Henan Power Grid.
5.        Thlrd Year Execution Proaram (to be completed in 1994)
(a)  To undertake a detailed study of the bulk sale power tariff, prepare
a concrete scheme for bulk sale reform and carry out relevant test-
case.
(b) To consolidate the experience and existing problems into implement-
ing the time-of-day power tariff system and to propose concrete
measures to further improve the tariff system.
6.        Fourth Year Execution Program (to be completed in 1995)
(a) Gradually implement the bulk sale tariff reform.



- 72 -                              ANNEX 15
Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
lerms of Reference for the Tariff Study
Oblectlves and ScoDe of the StudY
1.        The major objective of the study is to develop a practical state-of-
the-art methodology for setting electricity pricos in Henan province. The
study will be based on the experience gained from the East China Power Pricing
Study which was completed under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project. In
particular this study will look into the practical problems raised by the
transition from the existing to the proposed pricing arrangements. Because
electric power tariff reform is likely to remain a long-term process, more
detailed studies will be needed before new tariff options are implemented in
China.
2.        First priority in the study will be given to the development and
dissemination of analytical skills in the entities concerned. In particular
the study should evaluate and highlight the relative merits/demerits of the
proposed approach in comparison to the ones adopted in Ckina so far, particu-
larly the two tier pricing system very recently put in place. This training
will serve to familiarize Chinese staff with the various pricing criteria and
rate setting steps, emphasizing the complementaritv and differences between
financial cost and marginal cost approaches. Wor?shops are planned at three
important stages: study start-up, review of Interim Report, and selection of
tariff options for the Final Report.
3.        The tariff study for the Henan province grid will include the fol-
lowing tasks:
(a)  analyzing consumption patterns and demand projections;
(b) reviewing the system expansion plan and operating policies;
(c) analyzing marginal economic costs by voltage level;
(d)  calculating marginal cost of service and comparing it with existing
revenues for typical customers;
(e) designing several candidate rate structures;
(f) analyzing the financial cost and revenue associated with these rate
structures;
(g) roviewing issues in the taxation and regulation of power utilities;
(h) selecting a target rate structure, and adjusting the average rate
leveli and



- 73                                A  EX 15
Page 2
(i) making recommendations for future work.
OutDut
4.        The findings of the above tasks, up to and including the design of
alternative rate structures and their revenue implications, will be presented
in an Interim Report. A summary of these findings and amplified recommenda-
tions for a target rate structure, a rate level adjustment to meet precise
financial targets, and a possible framework for its implementation will be
presented in the Final Report. The Final Report will include a proposal for a
concrete action plan to be executed over a five-year period.
Organization. Schedule and Resources
5.        The study is being carried out by HPEPB and the Water Resources and
Electric Power Economic Research Institutes under MOE auspices. The study is
managed through a Steering Committee representing each of the above agencies;
this Committee has three working groups addressing, respectively, the power
market, the supply system, and subsector finances. The working groups are
coordinated by a Principal Investigator from the NOE. MOE and HPEPB will
exchange views with the Bank on the progress and fiAdings of the study.
6.        Key dates in the timetable for the study are planned as follows:
Start-up               December 1990
Interim Report         December 1991
Final Report           December 1992



-74-                            ANNEX 16
Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
The Proiect
1.        The thermal power station is located in Yanshi, about 90 km west of
Zhengzhou and 27 km east of Luoyang. It is owned by the Henan Provincial
Electric Power Bureau (HPEPB). The installed capacity of the first phase
development is 2 x 200 MW. The first unit was put into operation in March
1988 and the seuond unit is expected to be commissioned by mid-1989. The
proposed project involves developing the existing site to its ultimate capac-
ity of 1,000 MW by adding two 300-MW units.
2.        The following components would be included under the proposed proj-
ect:
(a)  construction of civil works including cooling water towers, a chim-
ney, and auxiliary structures;
(b) installation of boilers, turbo-generators and other auxiliary elec-
trical and mechanical equipment;
(c) construction of associated 220 kV transmission lines and substations
to feed into the power grid.
Local Consultant
3.        The conceptual design, engineering, and detailed design of the proj-
ect is being carried out by SWCEPDI. Overall consulting services will be
provided by a local consultant, China International Engineering Consulting
Corporation (CIECC), and the China Power Engineering Consulting Corporation
(CPECC) in Beijing. These two entities will:
(a) review the conceptual design, including plot plan, general arrange-
ment drawings, line diagrams, and basic plant parameters prepared by
SWCEPDI;
(b) review bid documents prepared by SWCEPDI on the island concept;
(c) assist in the prebidding meeting; and
(d) assist in the evaluation of bids.
Foreign Consultant
4.        A foreign consulting firm will provi,a the following support to CIECC/CEPCC



75 -                             ANNEX 16
Page 2
Stage I Services
(a)   assist in the review of bidding documents; and
(b)   assist in procurement including prebidding meeting, bid evalua-
tion, and preparation of a bid evaluation report.
Stage II Services
(a)   assist in the interfacing of engineering and design of different
islands;
(b)   assisc in the review of critical vendors' drawinga and design
calculations, such as turbine-generator pedestal design, major
structure design, layouts for major equipment, etc.; and
(c)   provide any other consulting assistance that may be requested by
the local consultant.
Time Schedule
S"          Consulting services should be complted within the following time
frame:
Scope of services                        Scheduled date of completion
Review bidding documents                           May 1992
(for balance of plant equipment)
Assist in bid evaluation                           November 1992
Assist in interfacing                              June 1993
Assist in review of suppliers' drawings            March 1994
Local SuDDort
6         HPEPB will provide the following local support for the project
activities:
(a) Make available to the consultants *ll the basic data, information,
and documents needed to carry out their services;
(b) Provide all the serv'ces required for the consultants to carry out
their work efficiently while working in China. These services
include office space, facilities and supplies, communication, local
transportation, counterpart professionals and technicians, and
intorpretation, translation and secretarial -ervices.



- 76 -                             ANNEX 17
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Prolect Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign
Item                                          cost         cost       Total
Power Plant (I)
Site preparation                             10.6           -        10.6
Pile foundation                               1.6           -         1.6
*       Civil construction                            31.9         6.4        38.3
Boiler                                       17.6         66.1       83.7
Turbine-generator                             7.2         69.3       76.5
Coal conveying system                         4.2           -         4.2
Oil system                                    0.1           -         0.1
Ash disposal system                           3.9          4.4        8.3
Water treatment system                        4.4          0.8        5.2
Water supply system                           3.5           -         3.5
Electrical equipment                         13.9          4.9       18.8
220 kv svitchgear                             0.4          0.6        1.0
Instrument and control system                 2.2         10.3       12.5
Construction equipment                         -           3.5        3.5
Environmental protection                      0.2          0.1        0.3
Training                                      1.3          1.0        2.3
Tariff study                                  0.5           -         0.5
Engineering and construction management      17.0          1.2       18. 
Base Cost                                120.5        168.6      289.1
Physical contingency                         12.0          8.4       20.4
Subtotal                                 132.5        177.0      309.5
Associated Transmission (II)
Base cost                                    26.1           -        26.1
Physical contingency                          2.6           -         2.6
Subtotal                                  28L7Z                   28.7
Price Contingencies (I and IID                 13.8          3.0       16.8
Total Prolect Cost                            175.0        180.0      355.0
Interlet During Construction
IBRD loan                                      -          48.1       48.1
Local loan                                   56.5           -        56.5
T2tll Financint Reauired                 231,5       228.1       459.6



ANNEX 18
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
o.                                      I                   11                 lil                 IV                  V                  VI                 VIil               Vitt
Civi  work        Construction
Ite                              Soiler I Turbie            I & C            Electrical    200 kw Switcbyard         aterial           EZqipmet          Ab  Disposal    Water Trestment
Pratian for Bid Doeat                                                          Oct. 01, 1992       Jun. 01, 1992      Jan. 30, 1992       Dec. 15, 1991       1a  01, 1992       Her 15, 1992
Apprawal by C     e. Goweinant                                                  Nov. 01, 1992      Jul. 01, 1992                          Jan. 15, 1992      Jun. 01, 1992      Jun. 15, 1992
-vi   by World Bank                                                            Dec. 01, 1992       Aug. 01, 1992                         Feb. 15. 1992       Jul. 01, 1992      Jul. 15. 1992
lid Docmn  len ne                      Jan. 26, 1989        Nam. 01. 1991      Dec. 15. 1992       Aug. 15. 1992      Mar. 10, 1992      Bar. 01, 1992       Jul. 15, 1992      Aug. 01, 1992
Clarificatin H eetin                                        Dec. 01. 1991
Bid Opeing                              may 04, 1989        Web. 01. 1991      leb. 01, 1993       Oct. 15, 1992       May 10, 1992      Apr. 15, 1992       Sep. 01, 1992      S*p. 15, 1992
Did Iwaluation                                              Apr. 30, 1992      War. 01, 1993       Now. 15, 1992      Jun. 10, 1992       May 01, 1992       Oct. 01, 1992      Oct. 15, 1992
A4rwal by Chi         a m  NeYt                              1   30, 1992       Apr. 01, 1993      Dec. 15, 1992                         Jun. 01, 1992       Now. 11, 1992      Nov. 01, 1992             1
Cemfiztiom by World Nr-                                     Jun. 20, 1992       May 01. 1993       Jan. 15, 1993                         Sep. 01, 1992       Dec. 01, 1992      Dec. 15, 1992             4
Bid   ardin                             Nay 25, 1"0         Jun. 25, 1992       Way 10, 1993       Feb. 28, 199S      Jul. 10, 1992      Jul. 10, 1992       Doc. 10, 1992      Dec. 25. 1992
(olted)
Contract S3                            Apr.        1992     Jul. 30, 1992      Jul. 10, 1993       Apr. 30, 1993      Aug. 10, 1992      Aug. 10, 1992       Jan. 10, 1993      Mar. 01. 1993
Notes  All abave.mntioed date, are completin date.



- 78 -                              ANNEX 19
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Key Dates of Project Implementation
A. Procurement of Major Plant Eauipment
Revision of bidding documents for boiler and turbine generator   Nov. 30, 1988
Review by IBRD                                                        Dec. 31, 1988
Issue of bid documents                                               Jan. 26, 1989
Bid opening                                                          May 04, 1989
Bid evaluation                                                       May 25, 1990
Contract negotiation and signing                                     Apr. 15, 1992
B. Proiect Implementation
Start excavation                                                     Aug. 01, 1992
Start foundation piling                                              Sep. 01, 1992
Start boiler steel structure erection                                Aug. 15, 1993
Oil flushing of turbine generator                                     Feb. 15, 1995
Hydraulic test of boiler                                              Oct. 15, 1994
Acid cleaning of boiler                                              Mar. 15, 1995
Blow-out of boiler                                                   Apr. 15, 1995
Trial operation
First unit                                                         June 30, 1995
Second unit                                                        June 30, 1996
Commercial operation
First unit                                                         Dec. 31, 1995
Second unit                                                        Dec. 31, 1996
Project completion                                                    June 30, 1997



- 79 -                              ANNEX 20
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank fiscal year      Semester      Cumulative      Project      Bank profile La
and semester        ---- (US$ million) ----       ----------- (x)       - --------
1993
First            16.7           16.7            9.2              3.0
Second           27.5           44.2           24.5             10.0
1994
First            34.9           79.1           43.9             18.0
Second           45.0          124.1           68.9             30.0
1995
First            25.6          149.7           83.1             46.0
Second           15.0          164.7           91.5             58.0
1996
First             3.4          168.1           93.4             70.0
Second            3.2          171.3           95.2             78.0
1997
First             2.0          173.3           96.3             82.0
Second            3.3          176.6           98.1             90.0
1998
First             3.4          180.0          100.0             94.0
Second            -              -              -              100.0
/a  Bankwide standard disbursement profile for all sectors in China issued on
April 25, 1990.



-80 -                                                          ANNEX 21
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Air Pollution Characteristics of Yanshi Thermal Power Plant
Air Ouality Analysis (u/sm3)
World Dank    Chinose               Bakrun    ee                   Background sud            Background and              Background and
S02    aut  SO       u~ 602             602SI    e   $02   us.t    S02           ust                                      Ik      II
Annual averXGe   100  100    100          -    6   61       4   95    16  115    816/20    66/981127    11/9/24    6911001129   11/10/25    671981126
Daily nazism      500  500    150    300   32  167    14  255    57  337   40/30/94  186/265/374  59/40/107  10712711375  59/41/109  19212MS1SAD
One, nais            -           00  1. 000   99  464    38  408   276  500          262         572          301           560          305          564
World  eSmk           Chinese Standard                                             Emissions (units as In,dic,ated)
-(Phase 71  nf            Ttal of all uhas"e)         PhseMEL haes     h-                 Phase U1        Tota Al Phase  IL         Total All Phs I1
S02(tj         v : fui(4j~     502  D02         Du       2        us       S02    Dust    602        Dust       S02           Dust         502         Dust
150
20            100         17.S57                    3.02      2.17    3.55    0.43    4.95        0.58    7.97            2.75       6.55          1.01
S52mg/We         1362&/as           136ag1W                 422ogi/V                136ag/m3
aGB-3095-82, Tanshi area declared class It air category by Hlenan provincial Environmental Protection Bureau.
b(1)-Sra HUsa Zang 1(2)-Si Li Det /(3)3* Li Tao.
Venturi Water-filmed type of precipitator  fforcPhaey of an95         ffcZ.yof9.1fr  hs 
o Venturi Water-film4d type of precipitator efficiencyof 95n2.Pofconyo    9.2frPhm t
a UP efficiency of 99.22 for phase I and USP efficineny of 99.22 for Phase II.
Tone per hour.
Venturi Hater-filmed type of precipitator for Phase 1.
E SP for Phase 1.
i Venturi Water-filmed type of precipitator for Phase I and ESP for Phase It.
Phase I and Phase II all use ESP.
gotes  Plant etatisticss  Coal                       Phase I               Phase I and Phase It
Sulfur (2)              0.94                  0.94
Ash (2)                 28.45                  24.20
Stack Height (an)       210                   210/240
Notoe,  Monitory Point I is located 20 km due Zeast of Yanabi.
Monitory Point 2 ts located 20 km virtually due West of Yanshi.
Monitory Point 3 is located 11.5 km Southwest of Tenehi.
Louyan is 27 km Nortbweet of Yanehi.



- 81 -                        ANNEX 22
Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERHAL POWER PROJECT
Summarv of Environmental Mitigating Measures 1/
Air Qualitv Control
Sulfur Dioxidet           Use low sulfur coal (less than 0.95 percent); use
high chimney dispersion (240 meters) for local
environment.
Dust:                     Use high efficiency (99.4 percent) olectrostatic
precipitators (ESP) to meet an exit concentration
standard of 150 mg/m3 for total suspended
particulates (TSP).
NOx:                      Low NOx burners, will be used in the boilers of
Phase II Project.
Waste Water Control
Circulating Cooling
Water Blowdown:           No chrome chemicals are to be used.  Blowdown is to
be sent to ash pond after neutralization.
Chemical Waste Water
and Boiler Blowdownt      Neutralization by acid or alkaline prior to
discharge.
Boiler Cleaning
Wastewater:               Discharge after treatment in ash water quick
reaction clarifier, resultant sludge disposal in ash
yard (mineral acid), or inject wastewator into
boiler furnace for incineration (organic acid).
Oil Contaminated
Wastewater:               Use flat flow oil scraping pond and air flotation
pond in two stages.
Sanitary Wastes:          Secondary treatment system currently available.
Expand if necessary to meet effluent discharge
standard.
Coal Yard Runofft         Collect and settle.  Sludge sent to ash disposal
site, effluent discharged.
)/ Recome nded in the Environmental Impact Assessment.



- 92 -                       ANNEX 22
Page 2
Ash Sluice Water:          Settled and adding H2SO4 (acidification) and sent to
the Yellow River.
Solid Waste
Fly Ash:                   Sluiced to the Xi-Jia-Gou Ash Yard.  Surface to be
maintained wet. Rainwater from surrounding areas
directed to drainage systems. Sides planted with
trees to contain dust. After useful life, ash yard
is to be revegetated.
Bottom Ash:                Ground and Trucked to the Xi-Jia-Gou Ash Yard.
Noise
Allowable noise level of less than 90 db (A) to be specified for main and
auxiliary equipment.
Noise isolating covers, walls or closets shall be provided where necessary.
Silencers shall be provided for boiler safety valves, piping, blowout, and
forced draft fans.



- 83 -                        ANNEX 23
Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Environmental Monitoring Proaram
1.        Two 300 MW coal-fired steam generating units will be installed in
the Phase II development of the Yanshi Thermal Power Station. In accordance
with the requirements of the Environmental Protection Act of PRC (Provisional)
and the Regulations for Fossil-Fired Power Plant Environmental Monitoring
(Provisional) of MOE. Henan Electric Power Bureau will perform environmental
monitoring for the discharge, ambient, and ash disposal areas in accordance
with the programs presented in Tables 1 (air), 2 (water), and 3 (noise).
2.        In order to successfully implement this program, it is necessary to
make up the deficiency of instruments in the environmental monitoring station
which was established in 1969, and provide trained staff to operate and
maintain the equipment
3.        The monitoring program is to be under the direction of the plant
director; it should include a station leader and eight technicians, including
environmental, chemical and thermal mechanical specialists or engineers. The
station leader should report directly to the plant director.
4.        Summary reports of the program should be prepared on a regular basis
and made available to the World Bank upon request.
S.        Additional equipment needed from local and foreign sources and the
associated training requirements are presented in Tables 4 anc 5. In brief
terms, these resources are as follows:
US S equivalent
Local equipment         $ 200,000
Imported equipment      $ 100,000
Total                $ 300.000



Table 1: AIR AND GAS ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
Monitoring      Parameters or           Equipment          Frequency                             Monitoring
Point           Pollutants             to be used         of sampling       Sampling point        period
Plue stack      S02, NOx, TSP     M1,000-type single   SO2, NOx;             In the middle of  All year
chimney monitoring   continuously         the stack
system               TSP:2-3 times/year
Electrostatic   Dust removal       Isokinetic probe,    After overhaul and   Standard            -
precipitator    efficiency                              after every fuel     procedures as
change (at least 2  manufacturer
times/year)          specified
Residential     S02, NOx, Cog    Mobile vagon           Five-day intervala   Prevailing wind   ALl year,
area            TSP               automatic system                           direction,          three to four
inside plant       times/year           a
fence
Ash disposal    TSP               Mobile wagon          Three to four        At edge of site,   All year
yard                               automatic system     times per year        several
locations
Source:  87-Notification No. HE 299, Thermal Electric Power Plant Monitoring Regulation (Ministry of
Energy).
S IU
Iza



Table 2i  AM   AND VUMXU          1501U   MOM
oaUer water                  OIl. cm-                                                       Lu. & *T
dmineralier   Sadtar    tantmted                                                           liver tri-
total combined  dlecharge        etantoer   waetmnter                      Lab yard                        botary and
lisObp       tlant tnda-   (after treat-  treatmet        effluezt   Coal pard        grounewster                        upe= rl  Bollar         Analytical
St aeb       r atl     ma t) & boilr   plat              (after      eattll   tak   Iincluding       Cood tor              trem   cleI          prcedur
Parmtor    * divycel Olt*    effluent    bludown              ad luaut     treatmt)   diacharge         local mile)        bl4Ln          of juntion Watewater epecutcatio.
Autotic        ce in 10 N    00elmoutb       OneImont,b  Onk,c tb    Ras water is four timslyar Once In 10 days Twicelyear  Before              0-4920-86
day*                                                      present                                                      discharg
dis"""     Coelmot      cawe in 10 day  -              aecIootb   -              tAhn wate. is  fur tIsselyear  -                  Ticelyear  Before       PG-245
_ttcr                                                                                   pret                                                          drp
oce In 10 days -               OeImoutla   -              tan water Is -                  -                Twicelyear  Before      1S-745
preset                                                       diacharp
Arsenic mmd      OmeIeeasocs OoAeIeaaAn               -                    -            TwicelYS        rutisyear        -                Twicelyaar Before       0-748S497
&roost"                                                                        Ocd_ 01 tde/our telyar                                                dischareW
luotri   and     Oel-ab   Oelmat               -             -             -              -              -               -                            -           0-74847
floe
ufid             ScIot   Oncelmcth             _              _            _             _                               _                _           _ -p8-545
nltrite and     0-IeOaon    O-cjeo    -                                                                  _ _                               Ticelayr  -            0-74794l
nitrate
O      an re"    -            -                -              -            Talcltb   ben water is -                      -                -           -           PS-945
Wr1ninmI      presnt
Voltile   eol -               -                                            Owelotb   When water is  four tci/lyear  -                      Tcelyear                 -74047
presntI
(at 20 C)   _                              _            OceIwee      -            _              four tlasfyear -                   -           -           G-7487                         en
lasideml         -            -                -                boltb   -               -               -                OucImoot h       Ttwcelyear                                              ( A2575445
obl*rimI
laterll c_       - -                                                                     -               colt, four
tlmslyear
_b t             -            -                    lotb       -            -             -              -                 ne      10 days  -          -           -
Del   solda -                 -                -              -            -            -                                Four timelyear TwlcIyer  -
_ev  mtcle       Cd.9g.Pbe    Cd.4.Ps          -              -            -            Cd.g. Pbi       Cd.Hg.lPb Cr.4f    -              Cd.Ng.Pb.  Cd.9g.Fb Cr *6t G0-74674-7
Oe1eeefao. hOco7eaa                                                    Cr.ff           minum, tour                       Cr. '     Cr.t6, Cu Cd.Pb. Gd-7475-67
Cr.ff oncel  Cr.ff Coce/                                               twicelyear      timseyear                         TVticelyecr before       g G8-7466-87
motb                                                                                                                                 dtacbarge
Standrd          G04978-8   04978-68          0-8978-68        4-89786-6   0G-6978-64   GS49788 U      G-5749-85         C1-8978-86       C-888-5 8  0F4978-88
aplcabl                                       (except Cu)
1=E



Table 3: NOISE MONITORING PLAN
Monitoring standard &
Monitoring point               Noise source              Location of monitor        measurement method
Inside main building and    Various pieces of          Monitor is to be located      GB-7441-87
miscellaneous plant          rotating machinery:       1 meter from large            "Measurement Method of
buildings on-cite            - Turbine                 equipment.  Number of         Power Plant Noise"
- Feed water pump        points decided by test
- Forced draft fan        person.  For small
- MPS Mills               equipment, monitor is
located at a distance of
½ the equipment length
Outside plant fence and      General monitoring of    Area is divided into 500       GB-3222-87
residential areas            ambient noise             m x 500 m grid.  The          "Measurement Method of
center of each square         Community Noise"
will be the monitoring
point. Number of
locations depends on
area
Road traffic              Mid-point of two              GB-3222-87
intersections, 50 meters      "Measurement Method of
from roadside                 Community Noise"
Administration build-                                   Gb-3222-87
ing, plant from area,                                   "Measurement Method of
worker residences                                       Community Noise"
N 
oe



- 87 -                       ANNEX 23
Page 5
Table 4: LIST OF INSTRUMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
TO BE PURCHASED LOCALLY
Instrument/device type                        Code      Number    Remarks
11,000 precision analytical balance          TG328A      1
Type 751 spectroscopic meter                  751G        1
pH metor                                      PXJ-RA      1
Polarograph                                   MEC-RA      1
Precisiot integrated sound level meter        ND-2        1
Dust measuring instrument                     SYC-1       1
Velocity meter                                LS-10       2
Wind direction and speed meter                -           2
Suspended particle sampler                    fC-A3       4
Air sampler                                   KB6A        4
Electronic calculator                         IBN-550     1
Conductivity meter                            DDS-lla     1



-8-                           ANNEX 23
Page 6
Table 5: INSTRUMENTS, EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING NEEDS
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS
Instrument/device type                   Number              Remarks
Continuous automatic flue gas              1        Including sampler, analyzer
analyzer (SO2, NOx)                               and printer
Flue gas automatic monitor for TSP         1        Including sampler, analyzer
and printer
pH continuous automatic monitor            1        Including sampler, analyzer
and printer
COD measurement equipment                  1
BOD1 measurement equipment                 1
Oil measuring meter                        1
Dust measurement apparatus for work        1
area in the main power house



- 89 -ANNEX 24
Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus
1.        Power companies such as HPEPB may accumulate capital from three
separate and distinct sources. These include funds for fixed assets, funds
for working capital, and a number of special funds.
(a) Funds for fixed assets. These funds are obtained from the State in
large enough amounts to permit implementation of approved projects
according to agreed schedules. Until 1980, these funds were provi-
ded almost entirely as grants; since then, the Govermnent has deci-
ded to make these funds available as loans obtained from the banking
system or from official sources. The funds under this category are
used exclusively to finance works classified as capital expendi-
tures. Most Chinese enterprises are not expected to financo any
portion of capital expenditure from operationsa rather, they are
expected to remit all surplus income to the Government through pay-
ment of taxes;
(b)  Funds for workina capital.  These funds are also received from the
State. Thev are based on a fixed amount established by regulation
and subject to review at intervals of about 10 years. These funds
make up only a minor part of the power bureaus' capital and, because
most of the bureaus have drawn their entire allocations since the
last review, these funds have been used only as a minor source of
capital in recent power projects proposed for Bank financing.
Because current obligations both to and from the potier bureaus are
settled almost as accrued, the working capital funds have been used
primarily to finance operating inventory; and
(c) Special funds. These funds are earmarked for distinct purposes and
are funded from net operating revenues or cash receipts in amounts
established according to regulations. The poaer bureaus' accounts
contain four separate categories of special funds, including those
for: (i) maintenance; (ii) renovations; (iii) employee benefits;
and (iv) distribution improvements. The special funds for mainte-
nance are financed by allocations charged as operating expenses in
determining net operating income before Income Tax. The special
funds for renovations are financed by charges against Government
Funds (the balance sheet account showing the Government's equity
investment in a power bureau) equal to the portion of depreciation
provisions not used for debt repayment. The special funds for
employee benefits are financed using distributions from Nlt Income
after Income Tax but prior to the Adjustment Tax. Receipts and
withdrawals from the special funds associated with distribution



-90                           ANNEX 24
Page 2
improvements are passed through the Flow of Funds statement and are
specifically excluded from the Income Statement. All other alloca-
tions to the special funds appear or are reflected on the Income
Statement as though they are operating costs or distributions from
earnings, regardless of whether corresponding cash expenditures have
been incurred. Under more traditional accounting systems, the
moneys expended from the special funds would largely be classified
as operating coats or working capital. However, items charged to
the Special Funds for both renovations and distribution improvements
would be capitalized as fixed assets once the underlying work is
completed. Thus, when the renovations or distribution improvements
are completed, their value is deducted from the special funds
balance and added to the Government Funds account. The power
bureaus have only one way to channel tariff revenues into cash since
all operating revenues must either be expended; distributed to cover
cash outflows, debt service or taxes; invested in renovations or
distribution improvements; or retained for future expenditure
chargeable to the special funds.s The bureaus channel revenues into
cash by using the excess of special fund allocations over the sum of
(i) Special Fund Expenditures; (ii) completed renovations and dis-
tribution improvements; and (iii) increases in Special Fund Assets.
In turn, cash generated through the Special Funds may be inter-
changed with other operating cash; however, allocations to particu-
lar special funds create an ultimate obligation for a power bureau
to use the accumulated cash only for certain categories of expendi-
tures.
2.        Until 1983, the power bureaus paid remittances to NOE equal to oper-
ating revenues less the sum of cash expei.ditures charged directly to opera-
tions, all allocations to special funds, and debt service. Since 1983, the
power bureaus pay MOF an Income Tax, assessed at 55% of operating revenues
loe the sum of costs (including depreciation) charged directly to operations,
all allocations to special funds that are treated as expenses, and debt ser-
vice in excess of the portion of depreciation provision specifically allocated
for debt repayment. From the residual after Income Tax, the power bureaus
must cover the special fund allocations that are treated as distributions from
earnings and the amount of debt repayment and capitalized interest during
construction to be met from net income, and remit the remainder to MOE as an
Adjustment Tax.l/ MOE has some flexibility in controlling the power bureaus'
liquidity. It can do this either by changing their allocations to the special
funds, making grants for allocation to the special funds, or relieving the
power bureau. of a portion of the Adjustment Tax. The power bureaus appear to
have adequate liquidity and MOE has not shown any inclination to adjust the
procedures that affect their liquidity.
3.        Under the existing financial system, the Government does not intend
for the power buteaus to retain a surplus. However, tariff revenues must meet
debt service requirements and repayment per se does not represent a charge
I/  From an accounting point of view, the Adjustment Tax is treated in a
manner similar to a dividend.



91ql -                       ANNEX 24
Page 3
against earnings. Regulations provide that certain stipulated amounts of
repayment shall be met from cash that has been generated by depreciation;
however, the remainder of the cash generated by depreciation must be added to
a bureau's operating cash and a corresponding allocation must be made to the
Special Funds f,. renovations.  As a result, the remainder of repayment, which
must be met from an earmarked increment of tariff revenues, creates an accumu-
lation of equity in the form of a corresponding undistributed ear iings.
4.        Most power bureaus have units which engage in construction manage-
ment and subsidiaries which function as contractors. As i rule, the accounts
of the construction management units are consolidated with those of the power
bureau's operating units; however, the accounts of subsidiaries acting as
construction contractors are, as a rule, not consolidated with those of the
operating units. As a result, when investments were financed through grants,
the power bureau's consolidated accounts may have routinely "nderstated gross
fixed assets and certainly did not reflect atequately construction in prog-
ress. Also, in the past, only about 85Z of the value of government grants
used to finance new fixed assets was transferred from the books of the con-
struction subsidiaries functioning as contractors to the power bureau's con-
solidated accounts. The residual was considered to have beer. expended in
purchasing moving assets, which remained with those construction subsidiaries
upon the coqple-.ion of construction. The change to using loans rather than
grants to finance power sector investments has caused investment funds to be
channelled from the Government through the power bureaus for payment to con-
struction units acting as contractors.   Thus, in the future, the consolidated
accounts of the power bureau should more accurately reflect the value of gross
fixed assets and construction in progress.
5.        Given the existing financial system, the power bureaus have little
financial incentive to increase tariffs at the present time. Once a power
bureau has sufficient revenues to meet the costs charged directly to opera-
tions and all special fund allocations and debt service, any additional reve-
nues are remitted to the State through income or adjustment taxes. Thus, once
expenses and required distributions have been met, even a large tariff
increase would not increase a power bureau's financial viability, except to
improve debt service coverage. Therefore, the familiar indicators of finan-
cial performance such as rate of return and self-financing ratio have very
limited application to the financial analysis of a Chinese power bureau.



-92 -                           XNEX 25
Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Annual Financial Statement'
Table of Contents
Page No.
Key  inancial Indicators       . .                                     2.. . ..2
Income Statement  . . . . . .           . . . . . . .  . . . . .    3-4
Balance  Sheot   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5-6
Funds Flow Statement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
Derivation of Average Tariff  .............               ..8
Investment Program            . . .            . . . . . . .        9-10
Loan Parameters . . . . . .                      . . . . . . . .  11-13
Fixed Asset ormation...... .. .... .    . .                           14
Revaluation of Assets  sets.... ..... ..15
Yanshi Expenditures and Financing....9.. .........                    16
Fuel, Purchases and Operating Expenses  . a . o  . . . . . . . . .  17-18
Special Funds Calculations  . . . .... ... . .....                    19
Breakeven Pricing . . . .                                             20
Self Financing Ratio  .v4                                             20
Assumptions to Financial Projection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21



Annex 25
- 93                                      Page 2
CHINA
YANSHI POWER PROJECT
NENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER WBREAU
KEY FINACIAL INDICATORS 1991-2000
(Yuan Million)
Year Erded Daceebr 31              1991    1992        1993    1994    19      1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
....    ....    ....    ..... ... ..  ....    ..... ....    ..... ....
Energy Satle  (OWh)               25152   27017   28961   31090   33638   37173   40569   43341   4741o    361
Avera  Price/kilh (ten)           13.50    15.38    17.23    19.01    21.00    22.4S    24.24    27.05    28.80    28.80
Operating R3 396    4155    4991    5910    7065    8350    9835    11723   13654   15366
Operatfng Ince.                     441     766    1120    1593    2180    2714    3543    4581    5400    5923
Rooittnes co Goverrmnt               34      93      138      285      326     438      509      564      616      834
Anml Capitat Expenditure           1330    1414    2333    2749    3048    3577    4125    4494    4603           a48
Rate so"e                          4877    5901    7114    8298    0101   12606   14834    1381   22563   27651
Long-term Debt                     2952    3834    5359    7248    8959   11062   13192   15098   16489   17905
Debt Service                        242     404      661      697    1191      1442    2135    3054    384    3919 Projected
Cush in Banks                       313     314      294      348      351     408      440      523      665    1045 Average
1991-2000
Rote tf Ratum
Historically Vatued Assets (1)    9.0    13.0    15.7    19.2    21.6    21.5    23.9    26.4    23.9    21.4    19.6
Naotfnally RevaLued Asstts C)    5.8      8.1      9.6    11.7    13.5    14.0    15.7    17.4    16.4    14.9    12.7
Seltf Financing Ratfo (C)          24.5    22.4    22.2    24.0    25.7    25.0    26.8    25.5    26.2    30.0    25.2
operating Ratio cZ)                C7.0    81.6    77.6    73.1    69.1    67.5    64.0    60.9    60.4    61.5    70.3
Debt/Total CapItal (5)             44.2    49.2    55.2    60.7    62.6    64.5    64.9    63.2    60.2    58.4    58.3
Debt Service Coverage               2.6     2.2      1.9      2.2      1.8      1.8      1.6     1.5      1.4      1.5      1.8
_           -----   -----



94 -ANNEX 2,5
Page 3
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
HENAN PROVTINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Income Statements 1985-1990
(Yuan million)
Year ended December 31            1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Sales Increase (Z)                 5.0     6.3      9.5    10.6      6.9     7.9
Energy Sales (GWh)              16,992  18,062  19,773  21,870  23,392  23,892
Avarage Price (Fen/kWh)            6.5     7.1      7.4     7.7    10.0    10.7
ODerating Revenue                1,110   1,289   1.464   1.680   2.330   2.545
Operating Costs
Fuel                            363      433     483      591     786      885
Purchased power                   90     110       96     132     362      208
Operation & Maintenance           86     118      170     19G     279      358
Administration                    41      53       55      70       79     111
Sales tax                       283      314     359      403      457     499
Depreociatior                     76      99      149     188      205     246
Total Operatina Costs        939   1.127   1.312   1.582   2.168   2.307
Operatina Income                   172     162      152      98      162     238
Other income                         0       0        0       0        0       0
Net Income Before Income Tax       172     162      152      98      162     238
Income Tax                          95      75       70      44       76      84
Net Income                     777             82       54      86      154
Distribution of Net Income
Remittances to Government         31      40       37      23       32      27
Transferred to Gov't Funds        14      20       20      20       20      76
Employee Benefits SF              32      27       25      11       35      51
Net Income                     77      8       82       54      86      154
Rate Base                        1,793   2,564   3,031   3,630   3,951   4,500
Rate of Return (Z)                12.0     7.4      5.7     2.7      4.1     5.3



Annex 25
- 95 -                                    Page 4
CHINA
YANSHI POUEq PROJECT
HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC PCMER BUREAU
INCOME STATEMFMT
(Yuan MItlion)
Year Ernded December 31             1991     1992      1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998      19°9     2000
Sales Inccrse (X)                    5.3      7.4      7.2      7.4       8.2     10.5      9.1      6.8      9.4      12.5
Energy Sales (GWh)                 25152    27017    28961    31090    33638    37173    40569    43341    47416    53361
Average Price/kWh (fan)            13.50    15.38    17.23    19.01    21.00    22.46    24.24    27.05    28.80    28.80
..................... ........................................... . ... ................ ............................. . ......... .......... ............. ...................... .....
Operating Revenue                   3396     4155     4991      5910     7065     8350     9835    11723    13654    15366
Operating Costs
..... ....... .... .....
Fuel                              1095     1287     1560     1722      1964     2414     2708     3085     3510     3889
Purchased Power                    231      251      280       277      282      268      262      249      218       200
Operation & Maintema0ce            454      548      654       765      892     1052     1233     1411      1645     1999
Ad infstration                     126       148      170      193      219      248      282      319      362       411
Sales Tax                          747      798      784      869       940      935      964     1090     1270      1429
9epreciation                       301      357      424       492      589      719      844      987      1248     1516
.............. ....................................................... ...............................................................
Total Operating Costs           2954     3389     3871     4317    4885       5636     6292     7142     8253     9443
Operating Income                     441      766      1120     1593     2180     2714     3543     4581     5400      5923
*S"xMo "-           _       *--r-#                        *                             _
Interest Charged to Operations        42      136      195      256      333       470      658      907     1128     1289
............................................. .................... ........................................... ..................
Net Incon. Before Income Tax         399      630      925      1337     1847     2244     2886     3674     4273     4634
MOMUMN uauaau                     uuuuuu=aguuuffCiUUfMuuuiuunuuumzasUuu8UuuuuiU
Incom  Tax                           125      231      313      575      649       848      976     1077     1173     1559
Net Income                           275      399      611       762     1199     1396     1910     2597     3099     3076
Dfstribution of Not Income
.................  ............................_
Enterprise D*vetopmnt Furd          15       40       59       122      140      188      218      242      264       358
4mIttances to GoverrAent            34       93       138      286      326      438      509      S64      616       834
Trwnsferred to Govt. Funds         137      185      330       292      603      674      971     1597     2063      180O
Chargeobt [DC                       35       24       25         0       65       29      140      120        76        0
EWploy e Unfits Spec. Fuifts        53       56        59       62       65       68       72       75        79       83
Net Income                           275      399       611      762     1199     1396     1910     2597     3099      3076
----------  -=s                                =t _     =



-96 -                         ANNE-25
Page 5
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Balance Sheets 1985-1990
(Yuan million)
As at December 31                 1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Current Assets
Cash                              93     120      142     380     324      344
Inventories                       92     103      101     1w0     257      zi5
Receivables                      ;08     116      117     305      369     228
Total Current Assets         292      339     360      845     950      797
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service              2,915   3,868   4,041   4,783   5,295   6,130
Less Accum. Depreciation      778      877     971   1,158   1,377   1,630
Operating Plant               2.137   2.991   3.070   3.625   3.918   4.500
Const. work in proeress         879      864      499     197     305      324
Total Fixed Assets         3.016   3.855   3.569   3.822   4.223   4.824
S6ecial Fund Assets                103     144      181    2Lo      216      306
Total Assets               3.411   433   4.110  i4.Z8  5.489   j.92
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                 140     147      121     347      357      58
Due to Government                 42      62       73     138      158     179
Total Current Liab.          182      208     194      485     515      237
Long-term debt                     409   1,071   1,104   1,573   1,746   2,067
Consumers' deposit                   1       1        1       1        1      10
Government Funds                 2,607   2,783   2,465   2,437   2,737   3,113
Working Capital Funds               67      90      102      70       89      91
Special Funds                     1445     183      244     311      401     409
Total Liabilities          3.411   4.337   4.110   4.877   5.489  Ja23L
Debt as Z of Debt & Equity (1)  13.0    26.5    29.0    36.4    35.8    37.0
Current Ratio (times)              1.6     1.6      1.9     1.7      1.8     3.4



Annex 25
- 97 -                                Page 6
CHINA
YANUHI POWN POJECT
HEN  PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC PONR  JRSAU
BALANCE SHEET
(Yuan Million)
bar *nded Decemd r 31               1991     1992     19M      1994    1995      1996     1997     1998     1999    2000
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                           313.3   313.6   294.1   348.4   351.2   407.7   439.8   522.9   664.6  1044.7
Inventories                   254.4   302.8   363.9   408.2   478.2   586.7   662.3   767.9   922.1   1031.1
Receivables                    359.1   421.5   490.2   565.8   660.7   766.3   888.4  1043.6  1202.2  1342.9
...................................................................................... e..........................................................................
Total Current Assets           926.8  1037.9  1148.2  1322.3  1490.0  1760.7  1990.S  2334.3  2788.9  3418.7
Fixed Assets
............
Plant in Service              7185.8  8835.2  10393.9  12118.3  15078.3  18436.9  21097.0 25362.9 33701.2  38298.6
(less) Accun. Depreciation    1931.2  2288.4  2712.0  3203.5  3792.0  4511.3  5355.2  6342.5  7590.7  9106.6
................. .................................. ...... ...........    ....<......................
Net Plant in Service          5254.6  6546.9  7681.9  8914.8  11286.3  13925.6  15741.7  19020.4  26110.5  29192.0
Construction WIP               576.5   339.3  1088.9  2059.9  2079.7  2225.7  3612.2  3840.2   105.0   155.2
Total Fixed Assets              5831.1  6886.2  8770.8  10974.7  13366.1  16151.3  19353.9  22860.6  26215.5  29347.2
-  - -- - - - - - - - -s 
Special Fund Assets              346.3   369.0   371.4   380.1   362.7   367.4   347.3   344.9   364.7   292.2
Total Assets                7104.1  8293.2  10290.4  12677.0  15218.8  18279.4  21691.6  25539.7 29369.2 33058.2
Liabilities
...........
Current Liabilitles
...................
Accounts Paysbie               132.7   151.6   172.4   191.3   214.8   245.8    2n.4   307.8   350.3   396.3
Oue to GovervWmnt              184.4   189.9   195.6   201.5   207.5   213.7   220.1    226.8   233.6   240.6
..........................................................................................................................
Total Current Ltabilties      317.0   341.5   368.0   392.8   422.3   459.6   492.6   534.5   583.8   636.9
Enterprs  O tevelopent Fund       14.5    54.5   113.7   236.2   375.9   563.4   781.4  1023.0  1287.2  1644.9
Corsamers Oeposits                10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Working Capital Funds             90.2    90.2    90.2    90.2    90.2    90.2    90.2    90.2    90.2    90.2
Long-term Debt                  2952.4  3834.1  5358.5   nU48.0  m89.3  11062.1  13191.7  15098.5  161U9.4  17904.8
Gover-uwnt Funds                3199.4  3347.1  3657.1  3917.5  4464.4  5045.4  5940.9  7421.3  9309.0  11025.3
Spe"ial Funds                    520.5   615.8   692.9   782.3   896.8  1048.8  1184.9  1362.3  1599.5  1746.2
Revaluation Reserve                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.)
Total Liabilities           7104.1  8293.2  10290.4  12677.0  15218.8  18279.4  21691.6  25539.7  29369.2 33058.2
,_____augmaS--                                                                                                  o
Debt   Z X of Debt & Equity         44.2    49.2    55.2    60.7    62.6    64.5          64.9    63.2      60.2    58.4
Current Ratio                        2.9      3.0      3.1      3.4     3.5      3.8       4.0      4.4      4.8      5.4



- 98 _                               Annex 25
Page 7
CHINA
YANSHI 904ER PROJECT
HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POUER BUREAU
FUNDS FLOWJ STATEMENT
(Yuan Miltion)
Year ended December 31             1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997         1998     1999    2000
....     ....  .  ....    ....  .  ..   . ....  ....  .... .    ....   ....  . ... .... ... ..... . .... .....
internal Sources of Funds
Net Income                      274.5   398.7   611.0   762.1  1198.7  1396.3  1910.0  2597.2  3099.4  3075.6
Depreciation                    301.2   357.2   423.6   491.5   588.5   719.3   843.9   987.3  1248.2  1515.9
Maintenance Special Funds       116.1   142.5   183.8   222.7   265.8   339.8   423.8   490.3   596.9   805.4
Distribution lIprv. Spec. Fda.   55.3    55.9    56.6    57.3    58.0    58.7    59.4    60.1    60.8    61.5
...  . . ........ ............... ......................... ... .... . ..... ......................... ........... ............ ........................ .. .. 
Total Internal Sources          747.1   954.3  1275.0  1533.6  2111.0  2514.1   3237.1   4134.9   5005.3  5458.5
Borrowings
..........
Proposed 18QD Loan                0.0    89.3   470.6   272.3    88.1    27.8    20.3           0.0      0.0      0.0
Yanshi Project Related Loans     21.8   116.2   384.3   "49.3   318.3   213.1    89.4           0.0      0.0      0.0
Other Loans                    1019.6   900.8  1068.2  1493.0  1970.9  2624.8  3292.6  3857.8  4001.0  4026.6
IDC Borrowed                     30.3    21.1    67.3   169.6   194.9   252.9   142.5    76.7    20.3    19.1
Total Borrowings               1071.6  1127.4  1990.3  2384.2  2572.2  3118.6  3544.8  3934.5  4021.2  4045.7
Goverrnent Funds                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Sources of Fuids       1818.7  2081.7  3265.3  3917.8  4683.3  5632.7  6781.9  8069.3  9026.6  9504.2
Capital Expenditures
...... ......... .....
Proposed Yanshi Project          21.8   200.9   830.4   663.9   324.0   146.4    55.3           c.0      0.0      0.0
Other Construction             1019.6   907.2  1117.8  1604.6  2121.2  2791.7  3384.1  38!/.8   4001.0  4026.6
Interest Durlng Construction     65.6    45.1    92.2   169.6   260.3   282.0   282.8   196.2    96.6    19.1
Completed Renovations           209.1   223.3   248.2   266.0   296.5   310.5   355.7   392.5   457.6   553.4
Distribution loprovements        14.1    37.6    44.7    45.2    45.7    46.3    46.8    47.4    48.0    48.5
...  ........................................  ..................... ................. .............................. I................................................................ .
Total Capital Expenditure      1330.1  1414.0  2333.3  2749.3  3047.8  3577.0  4124.7  4493.9  4603.1  4647.6
sho.u-.-___unUU3SuZ3UU3UUUuUUUUUUUUU           _  U_   U_   _
Operational Requirements
Inc/dec in Working Capital       81.3    86.4   103.3    95.0   135.3   176.9   164.7   218.8   263.6   196.7
Inc/dec in Specifl Fund Assets   40.3    22.7       2.4     8.7   *17.3       4.7   *20.2    -2.4    19.8   -72.5
Loan Repeyjsnt                  164.4   244.0   440.8   440.8   M.3.1   943.5  1336.9  2027.7  2630.3  2630.3
Remittances to Government        33.9    93.2   138.2   285.7   326.0   437.7   508.6   563.8   616.5   834.5
Special Fuid Expendftures       164.2   197.1   241.9   283.9   330.2   407.4   494.8   564.8   675.2   887.5
Chargeable IDC                   35.3    24.0    25.0        0.0    65.4    29.1   140.3   119.5    76.3          0.0
Total Operational Requfireants  519.3   667.4   951.5  1114.2  1632.6  1999.2  2625.0  3492.3  4281.7  4476.5
wsunuammun
Total Applications of Funds  1849.4  2081.4  3284.8  3863.5  4680.4  5576.2  6749.8  7986.2  8884.8  9124.1
vaasuuuuuusinun=4aauinauuuuuu
Increase/Decrease in Cash         (30.7)    0.3    (19.5)   54.3       2.8    56.5    32.1       83.1   141.7   380.0
ADmsl Debt Servfce Coverag          2.6      2.2      1.9      2.2     1.8      1.8      1.6      1.5      1.4      1.5



Annex 25
Page 8
_ 99 _
ODRIVATION OF AVERAGE TARIFF
AUTHORIZED POWER PRICING            1991     1992     1993    1994    1995       1996    1997      1998     1999    2000
........................ ......     -  -     ...      ....     ...     ....     ....     ...    . ....      ....     ....
Energy Sat" (GIh)             25152.0  27017.0  28961.0 31090.0 33638.0 37173.0 40569.0  43341.0  47416.0  53361.0
Domestic
Inter grid t.^nkfers         2164.0   861.0   265.0   570.0   500.0          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Nondoaestic retail          23088.4  25196.3  28985.1  30796.7 33829.6  37179.4  40129.7 44834.0  49081.0  52226.0
Average Rovenu  (fen/KWh)        10.98    11.39    11.91    12.28   12.73    13.25   13.72    14.23    14.69    15.07
asee Revenu  (Yuan/ASh)       103.15   106.25   109.44   112.72   116.10   119.58   123.17   126.87   130.67   134.59
Inter grid transfers        50.00    50.00    50.00   50.00    50.00    50.00    50.00    50.00    50.00   50.00
Auth. Cost Adjustments
Tranfsers (Current Prs.)
Mgndom. Ret. (Const. Prs.)   7.20      7.20     7.92    7.92    8.32      9.15     9.60     9.60      9.60    9.60
Nondom. Rot. (Curr. Prs.)    7.20      8.24     9.64    10.13    11.16   12.89    14.22    14.93    15.67   16.46
Operating Revenu  (mtn Y)      2760.8   3078.1   3448.9  3816.3  4283.1   4924.7  5567.5   6167.8   6965.3   8041.5
Totat energy                 2594-5   2870.5  3169.4  3504.5  3905.4  4445.3  4997.0  5498.5  6196.0  7182.0
Inter grid transfers        108.2    43.1       13.3    28.5    25.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Cosl price adJ.
I-- Inter grid transfers      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
--- Nondomestic retail      166.2   207.5   279.5   311.9   377.7   479.4   570.5   669.3   769.3   859.5
BREAKEVEN COAL ADJ. INCREMENT
................... ............................... ..........
Revenue - Auth. Coal Pr. AdJs.   166.2   207.5   279.5   311.9   377.7   479.4   570.5   669.3   769.3   859.5
CPA Revenue Net of Sales Tax     141.3   176.4   237.6   265.1   321.0   407.5   484.9   568.9   653.9   730.6
Cost of Coat Prico Increment     52.2   162.0   278.9   388.8   538.0   701.5   878.3  1100.1   1359.2  1619.2
Coat AdJ. SurpLus/Deficit      89.1      14.4   (41.3)  (123.7)  (217.0)  (294.0)  (393.4)  (531.3)  (7J5.3)  (888.7)
AdditionaL Req. Req. (fen/kWh)     0.0      0.0      0.2      0.5      0.8      1.0      1.2      1.6      1.9      2.1
Adjusted Oper. Rev. (Y stn.)   2760.8  3078.1  3490.2  3940.1  4500.1  5218.7  5960.9  6699.1   7670.6  8930.2
Enwrgy Sales (GUh)            25152.0  27017.0 28961.0 31090.0 33638.0  37173.0 40569.0 43341.0  47416.0 53361.0
AdJ. Avg. Sale Price Cfen/kWh)    11.0     11.4    12.1    12.7    13.4    14.0    14.7    15.5           16.2    16.7
aauuuzuuawmis              uuauuamumuau,aamUuuum="=uuuuuuuufUv=UmU
General Tariff Revision            23K       35X      43X     50X      57      608      65X       75X      78X      70C
Revised Price (fen/kWh)           13.5    15.4    17.2    19.0    21.0    22.5    24.2    27.0    28.8    28.5
AVERAGE SALES PRICE (fen/kWh)       13.5    15.4    17.2    19.0    21.0    22.5    24.2    27.0    28.8    28.8
m   Item: av price in 1991 re    13.5    14.1         14.9    15.6    16.4    16.7    17.2    18.3    18.5    17.6
self fin. ratio tX)     24.5    22.4    22.2    24.0    25.7    25.0    26.8    25.5    26.2    30.0



Annex 25
Page 9
- 100 -
INVESTMENT PROGRM
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                1991     1992      1993     1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000    TOTAL
..... ......... ....... ..... .... ..... ....  . ....  ......  ....  .....  ....  .....    ....  .....        ....  .....    .....
LOANS
PCRC loWnA
Yongchwng Power Plant                                                              0.0    222.0   310.8    734.3    771.0  2038.2
Sveenxnis Power Plant 1              2.1    244.8   691.7   709.6                                                             1e4.2
Qfnbei Power Pimit                                                      201.4   634.3   1036.-  1554.1    905.7               4331.6
Yaoung Power Plant IV                                                  201.4   352.4   814.1    512.9                       la0.7
J10ozuo Power Plant III            241.5    76.6                                                                               615.0
Saownxio  Power Plant It                                                           0.0      0.0    233.1    815.9  2056.1   3105.1
Hobi Power Plant                   262.5    143.0                                                                              700.5
Zhungzhou Therel                   287.7   297.4                                                                               704.4
Xuoyang Thorml                                                  63.9   335.6   563.9   51a.0                                  1481.5
Yah.kou Power Plant                                  304.4   639.3   1141.1    775.3                                          2860.2
other power lonts                                                                 70.5    296.0   466.2    815.9   1199.4  2848.1
220kv lne coNpletoed with Yongcheng Power Plant                                    0.0      0.0     69.9    106.1              176.0
500kv YeozheoM line I                                                              0.0      0.0       0.0                        0.0
220kv line compltoed with JZ PP    136.5     42.3                                                                              210.9
220kv llnce copleted with Sarmenxia Power    57.2    121.8    127.9                                                            306.8
220kv line comploted with H8 PP     57.8     11.4                                                                              107.6
220kv line compLoted with ZZ The    31.5     34.3                                                                               65.8
220kv line completed 1Ith YHK PP                                63.9    201.4    141.0                                         406.3
220kv line complettd with SIX PP It                                                        74.0    233.1    326.4              633.5
220kv ifne completed with Qinbel Power Plant                                      64.1    201.8   353.2    296.7               915.8
220kv line corpl. with YS PP 11               8.0      17.1     80.8     66.0                                                  171.8
220kv line coqpleted with Luoyang Power Plant                            40.3     91.6     74.0                                205.9
220kv line completed with Yaeomng IV                                              98.7    148.0   124.3                        371.0
Other Tranrolasaon Line & S/S        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Yanshi Power Plant It (for inves    21.8     97.3    300.2    245.7    98.1       44.3      0.0                                807.3
Yanahi Power Plant II ( IDC & C/F )           6.3      42.5     65.2     71.9     74.3     35.0                                295.1
IFRO loan                                                                                                                       0.0
Yanshf Power Plant 11                        89.3    470.6    272.3      88.1     27.8     20.3                                968.4
0.0
GRANTS                                                                                                                           0.0
0.0                                                                                         0.0
...................................................................................................................................
Total                         1041.4   1108.1   1948.2   2268.5   2445.2   2938.1   3439.4   3857.8   4001.0   4026.6  23829.3
uumumauuwuuu.auua                                                                         uuuuuus.



Annex 25
lCl -Pa     10
INVESTIIENTS (INCLUDING IOC)      1991    1992     'J      1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   TOTAL
. ......................................  ....  .... .     ....     .... .    .+ ....  ....  ....      .      ....    ..... .. .. ....... .. f . . .
LOASS
PC1C Loans
Yawnheng Power Plant                                                         0.0   231.2   342.8   773.    771.0  2118.4
Sanuanxis Poder Plant 1            2.1   255.1   716.6   709.6                                                       1683.5
oinbei Pawr Plant                                                  209.7   678.0  1152.5  1670.8   905.7             4616.6
Yaang Pijr Plant IV                                                209.7   384.4   855.5   512.9                     1962.5
Jiaowuo Power Ptant iII          259.0    76.6                                                                        636.5
taenxel  Power Plant II                                                      0.0      0.0   242.8   842.9  2056.1  3141.7
Hebi Power Plant                 280.3   143.0                                                                        722.7
Zhiazhou Therml                  309.7   321.4      0.0                                                               752.5
Luwoya  Therml                                             66.6   355.0   593.0   518.0                              1532.6
he"ou Power Plant                          0.0   317.0   692.0  1206.5   7S3.3                                       2990.9
other power plant.                                                          70.5   296.0   469.1   826.3  1218.5  288U.5
220kv line cApltesd with fongcheng Power Plant                                              69.9   106.1             176.0
500kv Y&ozhan3 lt.i.: !                                                      0.0      0.0     0.0                       0.0
220kv line copleoted  Ith JZ PP   140.7    42.3                                                                       216.2
220kv line cewplttd with SIaunxie Pomer   59.6   126.8   127.9                                                        314.2
220kv line completed with HI PP    60.6    11.4                                                                       111.1
220kv lirn completed with U The   32.8    36.4      0.0                                                                69.2
220kv line copleted with YHK PP                            66.6   208.3   141.0                                       415.8
220kv tne completed with M  PP if                                            0.0    77.1   249.2   346.6              672.8
220kv lirn corploted with Ofnei Powr Plant                           0.0    66.7   215.7   372.2   296.7              951.4
220kv line caqploted with YS PP II         8.4    18.5    86.3    72.0                                                185.2
220kv line completed with LuoyRng Power Plant                       41.9    95.3    74.0                              211.2
220kv ltne completed with Yoaueg IV                                        102.8   155.3   124.3                      382.4
Other Tranmission Line & 1/1       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Yanult Power Plant It                      6.6    44.8    72.1    85.1    94.6    48.3                                351.5
Yanhi Power Plant 11 (for invetment)     101.3   321.0   290.8   161.2   118.5                                        992.8
0.0
IUID loan                                                                                                              0.0
Yanhi Power PLant 11                      89.3   470.6   272.3    88.1    27.8    20.3                                968.4
0.0
GIANTS                                                                                                                  0.0
0.0
Total                       1085.1  1151.4  2015.3  2384.2  2637.6  3147.8  3644.0  4054.0  4097.6  4045.7 25011.0
__UUUUU4            *              _      _      _       _      -      -      _      _     sauaSuuu



Annex 25
-  102  -                            Page  11
LOAN PARAMETERS
uUENUm.-UUUUUUu
INTEREST                            1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996     1997     1998      199      2000    TOTAL
. .....                             ....     ....      ....     ....     ....     ....     ....      ....     ....     ....    .....
Yongchmn Power Plant
PCOC loon                                                                        0.0      9.2    32.0    "7.9    119.6   238.8
Ssiuonxis Power Plant I
PCSC toans                                 10.3    49.9       93.4    109.0    95.3      81.5    67.8    54.1        40.3    601.7
Qi0b*i Power Plant
PUCC loans                                                              8.3     43.6    116.4   233.3   283.9   284.1    969.7
Yanp Power Plant IV
PCC loans                                                               8.3    32.0      82.9    118.6    123.9    108.0   473.7
Jiasouo Power Plant ;if
PCCC loas                         34.9    42.6    40.7    35.5         30.4    25.3      20.2      15.0      9.9      4.8    263.4
tarwmnxis Power Plant 11
PCBC loans                                                                       0.0      0.0      9.7      53.9    146.2    209.7
Nebi Power Plant
PC8C loans                        35.7     46.2     46.3      40.5     34.7     28.8     23.0      17.1     11.3      5.5    293.5
ZhoVsghou Thermal
PCIC loans                        22.0    48.0    52.3        46.3     40.2     34.2    28.2       22.1     16.1     10.1    321.5
Luovang Thereal
PCBC loan                                                      2.6     19.4    58.3      88.8     97.8    85.3       72.9   425.0
Yahekau Power Plant
PCUC loans                                  0.0      12.6     52.7    130.8   180.5    188.4   164.2    139.9    115.7   964.8
other power plents
Pcuc loans                                                                       1.3      7.9      21.9     40.7     73.0    144.8
220kv line completed with Yongcheng Power Plant
PCUC loans                                                                       0.0      0.0       2.9     10.4     19.1     32.4
SOOkv Yaozheng lire I
PC8C ltons                                                                       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
220kv line comleted with JZ PP III
PC8C loans                         8.4      14.0     14.0     12.2     10.4      8.7      6.9      5.2       3.4      1.7     85.9
220kv Lirn  coNpleted with Sa'wenxis Poer Plantl
PCaC loans                                  2.4    10.0       17.6     20.3    17.7       15.2     12.6    10.0       7.5    113.2
220kv lIne completed with Hi PP
KBC loans                          5.6      T.5       7.1      6.2      5.3      4.4      3.5       2.6      1.7      0.8     45.7
220kv ltir completed with 22 Thermal
PCBC loans                         1.3      4.1       4.9      4.3      3.8      3.2      2.7       2.1      1.6      1.0     29.0
220kv line completed with YHK PP
PCBC loans                                                     2.6     13.8    24.4      26.9    23.5       20.1     16.7    128.1
220kv line conpleted with SX PP II
PCBC loans                                                              0.0      0.0      3.1      16.0    40.5      57.7    117.3
220kv line completed with Oinbei Power Plant
PCBC loans                                                              0.0      2.7      13.9    38.0      55.8     60.4    170.8
220kv line completed with YS PP 11
PCBC loans                                  0.3       1.4      5.6     12.1     13.1      11.9    10.4       8.8      7.2     70.7
220kv line copleted with Luoysng Power Ptant
PCBC loans                                                              1.7      7.3      12.3     13.6     11.9     10.2     56.9
220kv line copleted with yacomat IV
PCUC loans                                                                       4.1      14.6    27.1      27.6     24.6    98.1
Other Transmission Line & StS
PCBC loans                         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Yarahi Power Plant 11
ImRO lton                                   1.7    25.2       53.9     67.9    72.4    74.3       70.0      65.0     60.0    490.5
PC8C loans                                  0.3       2.3      7.0     13.2    20.3      26.6      21.9     19.4     16.9    127.8
PCBC ltons (for investmnt)                  4.0      20.8     45.1     63.1    74.2      82.2      58.0     50.9     43.8   442.1
................................. ....................................................................  , ..............
Total                           107.9   181.5   287.4    425.6    592.9   751.7   940.3   1103.4   1224.2   1307.8  6935.1
wan ussuan ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ---------



- 103 -                              Annex 25
Page 12
INTEREST OUMING COUSTRUCTZON      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1996    1999    2000   TOTAL
............................      .... . .....    .....   .....    .....   ..... ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  ----.  ....  .... .   ....   ........ .. ..... .......... ..
Yongebaeg Power Plant
P>CC toan                                                                           9.2    32.0    39.0             80.17
Stanxif Pawr Ptant I                                                                                                   0.00
PCBC Loans                              10.3    25.0                                                                35.28
Qinb.l Power Ptant                                                                                                     0.00
PcsC toas                                                          8.3    43.6   116.4   116.6                     284.99
Yrm-  Power Ptant IV                                                                                                   0.00
PCUC toans                                                         8.3    32.0    41.4                              61.74
Jilozuo Power Ptant III                                                                                                0.00
PCsC loam                       17.5                                                                                21.46
SaI.nxle Power Plant II                                                                                                0.00
PCIC toan                                                                           0.0     9.7    26.9             36.59
Nebi Power Ptant                                                                                                       0.00
PCIC toan                       17.8                                                                                22.23
Zhenzhou Therml                                                                                                        0.00
PC3C toan                       22.0    24.0                                                                        48.07
Luoya  Thcrm_l                                                                                                         0.00
PCBC loans                                                2.6    19.4    29.1                                       51.18
Ydtekou Power Plant                                                                                                    0.00
PCIC toans                                       12.6    52.7    65.4                                              130.72
other pooer plants                                                                                                     0.00
PCUC toans                                                                                  2.9    10.4    19.1   32.44
220kv lirn  completed wlth Yongchen Power Plant                                                                        0.00
PCUC loans                                                                 0.0      0.0                              0.00
500kv Yaozhwn  lfne I                                                                                                  0.00
PCUC toan                                                                  0.0      0.0                              0.00
220kv tUrn copleted with JZ PP III                                                                                     0.00
PCBC toan                        4.2                                                                                 5.30
220kv lirn  cpleted with Saauexifa Power Plantl                                                                        0.00
PCIC toans                               2.4      5.0                                                                7.35
220kv line completed with HC PP                                                                                        0.00
PCBC toan                        2.8                                                                                 3.51
220kv linw completed with ZZ Therml                                                                                    0.00
PCIC toan                        1.3     2.1                                                                         3.37
220kv tine completed with YHK PP                                                                                       0.00
PC8C toans                                                2.6      6.9                                               9.57
220kv lier cletoed with SWN PP 11                                                                                      0.00
PC8C toan                                                                  0.0      3.1    16.0    20.3             39.36
220kv Line completoed with alftel Powr PLant                                                                           0.00
PCC toa                                                            0.0     2.7    13.9    19.0                      35.54
220kv lirt comploted with Ys PP 11                                                                                     0.00
PCBC toan                                0.3      1.4     5.6      6.1                                              13.35
220kv line copleted with Luoyaw  Powr Plant                                                                            0.00
PCHC loa                                                           1.7     3.6                                       5.30
220kv line competoed with Yacun  IV                                                                                    0.00
PCBC toans                                                                 4.1      7.3                             11.40
Other Trwnmiesn Line & S/S                                                                                             0.00
PCBC toans                       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0                                                        0.00
Yoshi Powr Plant It                                                                                                    0.00
IUD Loan                                 1.7    25.2    53.9    67.9    72.4    37.1                               258.26
PC8C loan                                0.3      2.3     7.0    13.2    20.3    13.3                               56.34
PCBC loan  (for investment)              4.0    20.8    45.1    63.1    74.2    41.1                               248.42
. . . . . ........................ ..........................................................   .. .
Totat                          65.6   4U.1    92.2   169.6   260.3   2812.0   282.8   196.2    96.6    19.1  1502.81



Annex 25
- 104  -                              Page  13
REPAYMENT                           1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    1998      1999     2000   TOTAL
................                   ....     ....  .  ----     ....  .    ... ..  ....     ----.    ....     ....  .    ....  ...... ....... .. ..... ..... ..
Yongcheng Power Plent
PCBC loans                                                                                               207.9   207.9   415.9
Smmnxis Power Ptant I
PC8C tow%s                                         165.9    165.9    165.9   165.9    165.9   165.9    165.9    165.9   1326.8
Ginbei Power Plant
PCBC loan                                                                                       450.0   450.0    450.0   1350.0
Yacueng Powr Plent IV
PCSC Loans                                                                             192.1   192.1   192.1    192.1   768.4
Jiaozuo Power Plant III
PCUC loans                        61.9    61.9    61.9    61.9    61.9    61.9    61.9    61.9    61.9             61.9   619.0
Swrmonxia Power Plant 11
PCiC loans                                                                                               311.5   311.5   623.0
Hobi Power Plant
PC8C loans                        70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5    70.5          70.5    70.5    70.5       70.S   704.9
Zhongxhou Thernml
PCBC loans                                 72.9    72.9    72.9    72.9    72.9    72.9    72.9    72.9            72.9   655.7
Luoyang Thermal
PCIC loans                                                                    150.4   150.4   150.4   150.4   150.4   751.8
Yahokou Power Plant
PCBC loans                                                           292.5   292.5   292.5   292.5   292.5    292.5  1755.3
other power plants
PCIC loans                                                                                      110.5    110.5    110.5   331.6
220kv line completed with Yongcheng Power Plant
PCIC loans                                                                                                17.9    17.9    35.8
500kv Yaoxhng line I
PC.C loans                                                                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
220kv line completed with JZ PP III
PtBC loans                        21.2    21.2      21.2     21.2     21.2     21.2     21.2     21.2     21.2     21.2    212.0
220kv line completed with Swomenxis Power Planti
PCC loans                                           30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9   247.4
220kv tirn completod with HI PP
PCBC lowns                        10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8             10.8   108.3
220kv line completed with ZZ Thermal
PCBC loans                                  6.7      6.7      6.7      6.7      6.7      6.7      6.7      6.7      6.7    60.4
220kv line comploted with THK PP
PCBC loans                                                            40.9    40.9    40.9    40.9    40.9         40.9    245.4
220kv lirn comploted with SNX PP 11
PCBC loans                                                                                                65.3     65.3    130.5
220kv line completed with Olnbs Power Pltnt
PCBC loano                                                                                       93.2    93.2    93.2   279.7
220kv line cqltoted with YS PP II
PCBC loans                                                            18.9    18.9    18.9    18.9    18.9    18.9   113.4
220kv lfne completed with Y omng IV
PCBC toans                                                                              20.8    20.8    20.8    20.8    83.0
220kv linr completed with Lucywng Power Plant
PCBC lown                                                                       0.0      0.0    37.1      37.1     37.1    111.3
Other Trnsmiesson Line & 8/t
PCIC ltoa                                                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Yanwhf Power Plant II
IAR  loan                                                                               64.6    64.6    64.6    64.6         0.0
PcUC loan                                                                               30.5    30.5    30.5       30.5   121.9
PCBC loan Cfor Invetmont)                                                               85.6    85.6    85.6    85.6   342.2
............. ........................4    244.0    440.6    440       . .       .5.1336.9.                          .3. 11651.7
Total                           16".4   244.0   440.8   440.8   MY.1   943.5   1336.9  2027.7  2630.3  2630.3  11651.7



Annex 25
- I OS                                 Page 14
FIXED ASUT FORMATION
FIXED ASSET ADDITIONS               1991     1992     199      1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000   TOTAL
.....................               ....  . .....    ..... ..... ... ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  ...... ..... ....... .. ..... ..... ..
LOANS
Yangohen  Power Plant                                                                                      1006.2  1006.2  2012.5
Sunnxif Powr Ptlnt 1                                 799.6   799.6                                                           1599.3
Oinbei Powr Plant                                                                                2192.9  2192.9             4385.8
Ysom     Power Plrnt IV                                                                  932.2   932.2                       1864.3
Jiaozuo Power Ptant III            302.3   302.3                                                                             604.7
waIfe  Power Plant It                                                                                      1492.3  1492.3  2984.7
Nebi Pomer Plant                   343.3   343.3                                                                             686.6
Zhengzhou theorl                            357.4   357.4                                                                    714.9
Luoyang Therml                                                                  728.0   728.0                               14%. .0
YVhekou Power Plant                                                   1420.7  1420.7                                        2,.3
other powr plents                                                                                          1368.2  1368.2  2736.5
220kv line cowpleted with Yongchenv Power Plant                                                           100.77              100.8
500Sv Teotha   tine I                                                                      0.0                                 0.0
220kv line completed with JZ PP III         205.4                                                                             205.4
220kv ltr  eopleted with Saenxia Power Plant!                 298.5                                                           298.5
220kv line completed with H8 PP    105.5                                                                                      105.5
220kv line completed with 22 Thermal         65.7                                                                             65.7
220kv line co wleted with YHK PP                                       395.0                                                  395.0
220kv lfne completed with SMX PP                                                                           639.2              639.2
220kv lirn cotleted with Olrbel Power Plant                                                                903.8              903.8
220kv lirn comleted with YS PP 11                             175.9                                                           175.9
220kv lrne copleted with Luoyang Power Plant                                    90.50                                         90.5
220kv line copleted with Yarnn  IV                                                               118.11                       118.1
Other Treneifsrion Line 4 S/S      81.42   114.38   108.68   139.18   163.49   124.07   137.37   122.84   129.30   128.73   1249.4
Ywnshf Power Plant 11                                                 638.54   638.54                                        1277.1
YVashi Power Plant It (IBR  loans)                                                      459.99   459.99                      920.0
,...................................................................................................................................
Capitalized Borrowings         832.6  1388.6  1265.8  1413.2  2617.8  3001.8  2257.5  3826.0  7832.7  3995.5  28431.5
GRANTS
.....................
Comploted Renovations            209.1   223.3   248.2   266.0   296.5   310.5   355.7   392.5   457.6   553.4  3312.8
Completdo Ofst. Extenfso          14.1    37.6    44.7    45.2        45.7    46.3    46.8    47.4    48.0    48.5   424.3
...................................................................................................................................
Capftalized Grants             223.2   260.8   292.9   311.2   342.3   356.8   402.5   439.9   505.6   601.9  3737.1
TOTAL CAPITALIZATIONS         1055.8  1649.4  1558.6  1724.4  2960.0  3358.6  2660.0  4265.9  0338.3  4597.4  32168.6
CUMJLATIVE CAPITALIZATIONS    1055.8  2705.2  4263.9  5988.3  8948.3  12306.9  14967.0  19232.9  27571.2  32168.6
CONSTRUCTION WIP                    1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996    1997      1998      1999     2000
................                    ....  . .....    .....    ..... ----  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ----  .... .    .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
CWIP at begfming of year         324.0   576.5   339.3  1088.9  2059.9  2079.7  2225.7  3612.2  3840.2   105.0
Construction during year        1085.1   1151.4  2015.3  2384.2  2637.6  3147.8  3644.0  4054.0  4097.6  4045.7
Work completed durAng year       832.6  1388.6  1265.8  1413.2  2617.8  3001.8  2257.5  3826.0  7832.7  3995.5
..........................................................................................................................
CIIP at wd of year                 576.5   339.3   1088.9  2059.9  2079.7  2225.7  3612.2  3840.2   105.0   155.2
ANNUAL DEPIECIATION                 1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      19       1997     1998     1999     2000
...................                 .......... ..... ...... ----    ..... ....  ..... ....  ..... ....       ..... .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
Arnsl  Fixed Ast Additions    1055.8  1649.4  1558.6  1724.4  2960.0  3358.6  2660.0  4265.9  8338.3  4597.4
Cuo. Incrwmntal Fixed Assets  1260.8  2910.2  4468.9  6193.3  9153.3  12511.9  15172.0  19437.9  2m6.2  32373.6
Incrmental Deprociation           55.2   111.2   177.6   245.5   342.5   473.3   597.9   741.3   1002.2  1269.9
Arut Depr ciation                301.2   357.2   423.6   491.5   588.5   719.3   843.9   987.3   1248.2  1515.9
Cumul. Historfc Derciation    1931.2  2288.4  2712.0  3203.5  3792.0  4511.3  5355.2  6342.5  7590.7  9106.6



Annex 25
-  106  _                               Page  15
REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1991     1992      1993     1994     199S      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000
GROSS FIXED ASSETS
................................
Historical Cost:
Opening Batance                    6130      7186     8835    10394    12118    15078    18437    21097    25363    33701
Additions                          1056      1649     1559      1724     2960      3359     2660      4266     8338     4597
Closing Bet. - Historicat Cost       7186      8835    10394    12118    15078    18437    21097    25363    33701    38299
Revaluation
Opening Baltnce                    8684    10476    13256    15937    18502    22461    27027    31104    37032    47431
Additions                          1056      1649     1559      1724     2960      3359     2660      4266     8338      4597
Revaluation Factor                 1.08      1.10     1.08      1.05     1.05      1.05     1.05      1.05     1.05      1.05
Revalued Gross Fixed Assets         10476    13256    15937    18502    22461    27027    31104    37032    47431    54514
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                   7186      8835    10394    12118    15078    18437    21097    25363    33701    38299
Cuwuletive DepreciftionRtevalued):
Openfng Balance                    1784      2174     2659      3252     3958      4817     5849      7037     8452    10266
Depr. on Irherited Assets           347       419      530       637      740       898     1081      1244     1481      1897
Depr. on Incremental Asosts          42        66       62        69      118       134      106       171      334       184
ACCWULATED DEPRECIATION(RevaIue    2174        2659     3252      3958     4817      5849     7037      8452    10266    12348
NET FIXED ASSETS(Revalued)           8302    10597    12686    14544    17644    21177    24068    28581    37164    42167
REVALUATION RESERVE                  3048      4050     5004      5629     6358      7252     8326      9560    11054    12973
-_          _        o      - - r- -_



Annex 25
- 107 -                                Page 16
Yanshi Power Plsnt 11
.........................
1BRD LonW                        1991      92    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
.......                        ...      ...      ...     ...      ...      -  -    ...      ....     ....    ....
An-Al disbursement in US S               16.6    87.5    50.6    16.4       5.2      3.8
Forefgn Base Cost                      16.5    86.3    49.6    16.2       4.9      3.4
Amust disbursement in RMB               89.3   470.6   272.3  88.1    27.8    20.3
Cum disburseomnt                        89.3   559.9   832.1   920.2   948.1   968.4   968.4   968.4   968.4
Cm. disbursement (Cmd-yesr)             44.6   324.6   696.0   876.2   934.1   958.2   968.4   968.4   968.4
Undisbursed (suject to c/f)            923.8   643.8   272.4    92.2    34.3
Coe itment fee 0.75X                     3.5     4.8      2.0      0.7     0.3
Cup commitment fee                       3.5      8.3    10.3    11.0    11.3
Alviut repmsnt                                                                     64.6    64.6    64.6    64.6
Cu. repyment                                              0.0      0.0     0.0    64.6   129.1   193.7   258.2
Sub ject to interest                    44.6   324.6   696.0   876.2   934.1   958.2   903.8   839.3   774.7
Interest a 7.75X                         1.7    25.2    53.9    67.9    72.4    74.3    70.0    65.0    60.0
'um interest                             1.7    26.9    80.8   148.7   221.1   295.4   365.4   430.5   490.5
Yanshi Power Plant 11 Costs (US$   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
..................                ...      ....     ....    . ...    ....    ---      ....     ....     ....    ... .
Foreign Base Cost(fncl physical con)       16.5    86.3    49.6    16.2       4.9      3.4
Escalated Foreign Cost (FE Inf)            16.6    87.5    50.6    16.4       5.2      3.8
(Dm.Inf)             16.8    89.8    52.3    17.0       5.5      3.4
Local Base Cost                    4.1    18.8    53.3    52.2    25.0        7.9      0.0
Escalated Local Cost  (FE Inf)     4.1    18.3    53.9    54.8    27.3        8.9      0.0      0.0
(Oc.Inf)    4.1    19.6    59.0    60.7    30.5    10.1         0.0
PC-C loans
1BRO Interest                             1.7    25.2    53.9    67.9    72.4    74.3
IBRD Comitment Fee                        3.5     4.8      2.0      0.7     0.3      0.0      0.0
Co. Banks Fee                             0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Umut Foreign Cost                         6.3    42.5    65.2    71.9    74.3    35.0
Amiual disburseme nt                     6.3    42.5    65.2    71.9    74.3    35.0
Cum disbursewnt                          6.3    48.8   114.0   185.9   260.1   295.1   295.1    25.1  295.1
Repayment                                                                          30.5    30.5    30.5    30.5
Cmi repayment                                                                      30.5    60.9    91.4   121.9
Subject to interest                      3.2    27.8    84.0   159.4   245.7   320.7   264.7   234.2   203.7
Interest a 8.28X                         0.3     2.3      7.0    13.2    20.3    26.6    21.9    19.4    16.9
Cur Interest                             0.3      2.6     9.5    22.7    43.1
PCBC loans (for fnvestment)
Arual Investment (Constant)    21.8    93.5   271.2   211.4    80.4    34.6
Anmal investme  (Current)      21.8    97.3   300.2   245.7    98.1    44.3         0.0
Cuo investuent                          97.3   ' 7.5   643.1   741.3   785.5   785.5   785.5   785.5   785.5
Rqeyment                                                                           85.6    85.6    85.6    85.6
Cum rpyment                                                                        85.6   171.1   256.7   342.2
SubJect to interest                     48.6   251.4   545.1   762.2   896.5   992.8   700.0   614.4   528.9
Interest 9 8.28X                         4.0    20.8    45.1    63.1    74.2    82.2    58.0    50.9    43.8
Cumnuletive Interest                     4.0    24.8    70.0   133.1   207.3
s____~~-          - - - - - - -



Annex 25
- 108 -                            Page 17
FUEL, PURCHASES & OPER. EXPS.
FUEL COST CALCULATION            1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
.....................            ....  . .....   .....    .....   ... ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .... .    .... .. ..... ..... .... ..... ..
Cost of Coat (Exc. Yanshi)
................................
Electricity generated (GUh)   26732.0 29132.0 33532.0 35632.0 39132.0 42982.0 46382.0 50877.6 55697.1  59266.1
Consumption (ton/GAh)         383.0   379.0   375.0   371.0   367.0   365.0   363.0   361.0   359.0   357.0
Standard (000 ton)           10238.4  11041.0  12574.5 13219.5  14361.4  15688.4  16836.7  18366.8  19995.3 21158.0
Std coat price (Constant Y)    101.88  101.88  101.88  101.88  101.8   101.88  101.88  101.88   101.88  101.88
Std coal price (Current Y)   106.97  116.55  124.06  130.26  136.78  143.61  150.79  158.33  166.25  174.56
Cost of coat (mtn Y)         1095.2  1286.8  1560.0  1722.0  1964.3  2253.1  2538.9  2908.1  3324.2  3693.4
Yanshi I1
Electricity generated (GUi)                            1500.0  3300.0  3500.0  3500.0  3500.0  3500.0  3500.0
Cansuptfon                                             320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0
Standard cost (l000 ton)                               480.0  1056.0  1120.0  1120.0  1120.0  1120.0  1120.0
Cost of coat (mmn Y)                                                    160.8   168.9   177.3   186.2   195.5
TOTAL FUEL COST              1095.2  1286.8  1560.0  1722.0  1964.3  2413.9  2707.8  3085.4  3510.4  3888.9
Coat price adJ. (Yuan)        5.09   14.67   22.18   28.38   34.90   41.73   48.91    56.45   64.37   72.68
Coal cost adi. (min Y)        52.2   162.0   278.9   388.8   538.0   701.5   878.3  1100.1  1359.2  1619.2
POWER PURCHASES                  1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
...............                  ....  . .....   ....  .  .. ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  ----.  ....  .... .    .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
Purchased power (GA)           3700    3550    3860    3760    3710    3560    3460    3260    3060    2850
From Saeenxia Hydro-etec.    1050    1050    1360    1360    1360    1360    1360    1360    1360    1350
From CCEPA                   1700    1500    1500    1500    1500    1500    1500    1400    1400    1300
From NIEPA                      0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0
From Locat Power Ptant        950    1000    1000      900      850     700      600     500      300     200
Purchase Price (Yuan)
From Sawnegxis Hydro-etec.   33.00   33.00   33.00   33.00   33.00   33.00   33.00   33.00   33.00   33.00
with escalatfon            34.65   37.75   40.18   42.19   44.30   46.52   48.84   51.29   53.85   56.54
From CCEPA                  35.00   35.00   35.00   35.00   35.00   35.00   35.00   35.00   35.00   35.00
uith escaLation            36.75   40.04   42.62   44.75   46.99   49.34   51.80   54.39   57.11   59.97
Auth. CoaL Adjustnents
From NWEPA                  70.40   70.40   70.40   70.40   70.40   70.40   70.40   70.40   70.40   70.40
with escatation            73.92   80.54   85.n7   90.01   94.51   99.24   104.20  109.41   114.88  120.63
From Locat Power Plant      132.40  132.40  132.40  132.40  132.40  132.40  132.40  132.40   132.40  132.40
with ec.eation             139.0   151.5   161.2   169.3   177.7   186.6   196.0   205.8   216.1   226.9
Cost of purchased (sin Y)
From Sermxia Hydro-etee.    36.4    39.6    54.7    57.4    60.3    63.3    66.4    69.7    73.2    76.3
From CCEPA                   62.5    60.1    63.9    67.1    70.5    74.0    77.7    76.2    80.0    78.0
Frm NWEPA                     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
From Locat Power Ptent      132.1   151.5   161.2   152.4   151.1   130.6   117.6   102.9    64.8    45.4
.......... ....................... ..,............,.             ,...    .. .....................
Total                      230.9   251.2   279.8   276.9   281.8   267.9   261.7   248.5   218.0   199.7
z_x_               __m__8"                                                                                    o



Annex 25
-  109 -                            Page 18
MAINTENANCE                        1991     l992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997          1998     1999    2000
,. ............ ....                        ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....  ....   .    ....   ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Incrurmntol  aintenarce           5.1    31.5    72.8   111.7   154.8   228.8   312.8   379.3    485.9   694.4
Annusl Maintencnco Expenso      116.1   142.5   183.8   222.7   26S.8   339.8   423.8   490.3   596.9   805.4
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE            1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997          1998     1999    2000
.......................            ....  . .....    .....    .....    .....    . ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .    ....  .... .    .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
Weter & Motorial                166.1    191.0   215.8   243.8   275.5   303.1   333.4   366.8   403.4    443.8
with escalation               174.4   218.5   262.8   311.8   369.9   427.3   493.5    570.0    658.3    760.4
Number of Eaptoyass (000)        49.0    49.5    50.0    50.5    51.0    51.5    52.0    52.5           53.0    53.5
Averago Wage (YuarVY*ar)         3339     37m      4151     4566    5022    5524    6077    66b5         7353    8088
Wagos                           163.6   186.8   207.5   230.6   256.1    284.5   316.0   350.9    389.7   432.7
MfIntonanco                     116.1    142.5    183.8   222.7   265.8   339.8   423.8   490.3    596.9   805.4
Total                        454.1    547.8   654.1    765.1    891.9   1051.6  1233.3  1411.2   1645.0   1998.5
ADMINISTRATION                     1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998           1999     2000
..............                     ....  . .....    .....    . ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .... .    .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
uO   Cost                       119.9   129.5   139.8   151.0   163.1   176.1   190.2   205.5    221.9   239.6
Acb1nIstratfon Expanse          125.9   148.1    170.3   193.1   219.0   248.3   281.6   319.3   362.1   410.6
__  =q~~~~~uuuuuuuuuuuuauuuuuuuuy.muuuuauuuuaa.uiuuuuu



Annex 25
-  110  -                             Page  19
SPECIAL FUNDS CALCULATIONS
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000
RenesaL I Rerovation Furnd            .        ....               ----               ---- ....  .-   ....  .  ...  ....    ....
.................. ..................... ...
Annual alLocation                 274.1    298.6    312.4    342.7    398.0    449.4    478.4    556.4    681.2    686.0
Annual expenditure                219.3    238.9    249.9    274.1    278.6    314.6    334.9    389.5    476.8    480.2
Balance at year end               350.0    425.3    489.5    566.1    667.5    806.4    929.1   1093.0   1316.5   1449.2
Cowpl.ttd Renovations             209.1    223.3    248.2    266.0    296.5    310.5    355.7    392.5    457.6    553.4
... ....  ..................................... .............................................................................................
Maintenance Fund
................
Anmal expaocation                 116.1    142.5    183.8    222.7    265.8   339.8    423.8    490.3    596.9    805.4
Anrual expenditure                116.1    142.5    183.8    222.7    265.8    339.8    423.8    490.3    596.9    805.4
Balance at year end                 5.7       5.7      5.7       5.7      5.7      5.7       5.7      5.7       5.7       5.7
..........................................................................................................................
Eaplyee Senefits Fund
......................
Annual allocation                  53.5      56.2     59.0      62.0     65.1     68.4      71.8     75.4      79.2      83.1
Annual expenditure                 48.1      54.6     58.1      61.2     64.3     67.6      71.0     74.5      78.2     82.1
Salance at year end                12.0      13.6     14.5      15.3     16.1      16.9     17.7     18.6      19.6      20.5
........................................................................................................................
Distribution Extenions Fund
............................
Annual allocation                  55.3      55.9     56.6      57.3     58.0     58.7      59.4     60.1      60.8      61.5
Annual expenditure                 44.2      44.7     45.3      45.8     46.4     46.9      47.5     48.1      48.6     49.2
Balance at yeac end               152.9    171.2    183.1    195.2    207.4    219.8    232.3    245.0    257.8    270.8
Completed Dist. Extensions         14.1      37.6     44.7      45.2     45.7    46.3       46.8     47.4      48.0     48.5
..........................................................................................................................
Total Special Funds
...................
AnnuAl allocation                 498.9    553.2    611.8    684.6    786.9    916.3   1033.3   1182.1   1418.0   1636.1
Amauel expenditure                427.6    480.7    53?.1    603.9    655.1    768.9    877.1   1002.3   1200.6   1417.0
Balance at year end               520.5    615.8    692.9    782.3    896.8  1048.8   1184.9   1362.3   1599.5   1746.2
Special  Funds Outflows           387.4    457.9    534.7    595.2    67n.4    764.2    897.3   1004.7   1180.8   1489.5



_ 111  _                              Annex 25
Page 20
BNEAKEVEN PRICING
uas zuuussuuuunow
Co ponento of dross Revenue        1991     1992    1993      1994    1995    1996    1997        1998     1999    2000
. ............... ... ... ...........   ....    ...........    . ....  ......    ... .    . ...    ....    ....  .....    ....
Operating Costs                  2954.4  3388.9  3871.3  4317.3  4885.1  5636.3  6292.1  7142.3  8253.5  9442.6
Interests                          77.6   160.4   220.2   256.0   397.9   498.8   797.8  1026.7  1204.0  1288.7
Amortization met by Net Incone    137.3   185.4   329.6   291.9   602.5   673.5   971.4  1596.8  2063.3  1800.4
Income Tax                         65.4    68.7    72.1       73.8    79.6    83.6    87.8    92.2    96.8    101.6
Eeployee Benefits Special Funds    53.5    56.2    59.0    62.0    65.1    68.4    71.8    75.4    79.2    83.1
Not Working Capital Incresse       81.3    86.4   103.3    95.0   135.3   176.9   164.7   218.8   263.6   196.7
.............. ........................... . .............. .... ...... ... ... .. . ... . . ..    ..................
Groes Operating Requirement      3369.4  3946.0  4655.5  5098.0  6165.6  7137.4  8385.6  10152.2  11960.2  12913.1
Sales Volume (WA)                 25152   27017   28961    31090   33638   37173   40569   43341    47416   53361
NINIIPJ AVERAGE TARIFF             13.4    14.6    16.1    16.4    18.3    19.2    20.7    23.4    25.2    24.2
SELF FINANCING RATIO         1991     1992    1993      1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    199          2000
- #-suuinuuuuuuaumu         ....     ....     ....              ....    ....     ...     ....    ....        ....
Arnnal Capital Expenditures      1330.1   1414.0  2333.3   2749.3  3047.8  3577.0  4124.7  4493.9  4603.1   4647.6
Internelly Generated Cash         747.1   954.3   1275.0   1533.6  2111.0  2514.1   3237.1   4134.9  5005.3  5458.5
(less) Operational Requirements   519.3   667.4   951.5   1114.2  1632.6  1999.2  2625.0  3492.3  4281.7  4476.5
(ltes) Increased Cash Balances    (30.7)    0.3    (19.5)    54.3       2.8    56.5    32.1    83.1    141.7   380.0
Cash Avoilable for Investment     258.5   286.6   343.0   365.2   475.6   458.3   579.9   559.5   581.9   601.9
Remittances to Goverlnent          33.9    93.2    138.2   285.7   326.0   437.7   508.6   563.8   616.5   834.5
EARNED CASH                       292.4   379.8   481.2   650.9   801.5   896.0  1088.5  1123.3  1198.4  1436.4
SELF FINANCING RATIO CX)           24.5    22.4    22.2    24.0    25.7    25.0    26.8    25.5    26.2    30.0
uuuun2ulauzunauuuuuZuinussuuuuu8Umuu=w& wMwU u2uu      auuums=a81      auuuuuu=muuu



- 112 -                       ANNEX 25
Page 21
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
HENAN PROVINCE ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Assumntions to Financial Prolections
A.   Income Statement
1.   Average Price is derived in the attached table entitled, "Derivation
of Average Tariff" (page 8 of this Annex).
2.   Operating Revenue is the product of energy sales in GWh multiplied
by the average price.
3.   Fuel Costs are derived in the table entitled, "Fuel, Purchases and
Operating Expenses" (page 17 of this Annex).
4.   Purchased Power is derived in the table entitled, "Fuel, Purchases
and Operating Expenses" (page 18 of this Annex).
5.   Oneratina Exnenses are derived in the table entitled, "Fuel,
Purchases and Operating Expenses" (page 18 of this Annex).
6.   Maintenance Costs represent the specific year's allocation to the
Maintenance Special Fund. The allocation represents about 2.5Z of
gross fixed assets in services. Activity of the Maintenance Special
Fund is derived in the table entitled, "Special Fund Calculations"
(page 19 of this Annex).
7.   Sales Tax is assumed at the following percentage of each year's
operating revenues:
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
19.6  22.0  19.2  15.7  14.7  13.3  11.2   9.8   9.3   9.3   9.3
S.   Degreciation is assumed at 4.73Z of gross fixed assets.
9.   Interest.  HPEPB's borro-ings will be obtained from three sources:
(a) the onlent proceeds of World Bank loans, at 7.752 p.a.;
(b) direct loans from People's Construction Bank of China, at 8.28Z
p.a.; and (c) local loans from the Henan Provincial Government, also
at 8.282 p.a. Interest is derived on a project-by-project basis in
the subtable entitled, "Interest" within the table entitled, "Loan
Parameters" (page 11 of this Annex).



-   3_EX 25
Page 22
10.  Income TA. represents 55% of net income less debt repayments which
must be met from distributions of net income. (This item is
entitled, "Transferred to Government Funds" on the income state-
ment.)
11. Remittances to Government represents net income after income tax and
after authorized distributions. These funds are remitted in cash
partly to MOE and partly to MOF.
12. Emplovee Benefit Special Fund represents the annual allocation to
this particular special fund; this allocation is met as a distribu-
tion from net income. The operation of that special fund is summa-
rized in the table entitled, "Special Fund Calculations" (page 19 of
this Annex). Allocations to this special fund per one employee are
assumed to increase by 4% each year.
13. Chargeable IDC represents interest during construction which,
according to regulations, must be met by distributions from net
income. Annual amounts are derived in the table entitled, "Loan
Parameters" (page 11 of this Annex).
B.   Fund Flow Statement
1.   Distribution Improvements Special Funds represent the receipts of
this particular special fund. That fund's operation is summarized
in the table entitled, "Special Fund Calculations" (page 19 of this
Annex). The allocation (or for this fund, receipts) is expected to
increase by 1.2S per year.
2.   All Borrowinps are derived in the table entitled, "Investment
Program" (page 9 of this Annex).
3.   CA2ital Expenditures, other than Interest During Constructl-on.
Renovations and Distributions Improvements, are also derived in the
Table entitled, "Investment Program" (page 9 of this Annex).
4.   Interest During Construction is derived in the subtable carrying
that name which is included in the main table, "Loan Parameters"
(page 12 of this Annex).
5.   Renovations represents 852 of the previous year's and 152 of the
year prior to the previous year's expenditures from the Special Fund
for Renovations, the operation of which is summarized in the table
entitled, "Special Funds Calculations" (page 19 of this Annex).
6.   Distribution Improvements represent 852 of the previous year's and
152 of the year prior to the previous year's expenditure. from the
Distribution Improvements Special Funds, the operation of which is
summarized in the table entitled, "Special Funds Calculation" (page
19 of this Annex).
7.   Increase in Working Capital represents the excess of the current
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities, less



-114-                         AN-EX25
Page 23
the excess of the previous year's current assets (net of cash) over
current liabilities.
8.   Special Fund Expenditures represents aggregate amounts actually
spent from the various special funds in a particular year. In
general, expenditures from the special fund are assumed at 80Z of
the previous year's and 20% of the year before the previous year's
allocations (excluding those from the Maintenance Special Funds,
which are assumed at 100% of the particular year's allocation).
This relationship is derived in the table entitled, "Special Funds
Calculations" (page 19 of this Annex).
C.   Balance Sheet
1.   Inventories are derived at 1% Gross Fixed Assets and 2 month's fuel.
2.   Accounts Receivable are assumed at 30 days' sales amount plus 80
million Yuan.
3.   Plant in Service is derived in the table entitled, "Fixed Asset
Formation" (page 14 of this Annex). Any revaluation of fixed assets
would be derived in the table entitled, "Revaluation of Assets"
(page 15 of this Annex).
4.   Construction Work in Progress is also derived in the table entitled,
"Fixed Asset Formation" (page 14 of this Annex).
5.   Special Fund Assets represents renovations and distribution improve-
ments under construction. The renovations are financed by expendi-
tures from the Special Fund for Renovations. The distribution
improvements are financed from the Distribution Improvements Special
Funds. Operations of these funds is derived in the table entitled,
"Special Funds Calculations" (page 19 of this Annex).
6.   Accounts Payable are assumed to increase by the same rate as cash
operating expenses.
7.   Due to Government is projected to increase by 3Z per year.
8.   Long-Term Debt is expected to increase each given year by the amount
of the investment program being financed with loans less repayments.
The amount of the investment program is derived in the table
entitled, "Investment Program" (page 9 of this Annex). The amount
of repayment is derived in the subtable entitled, "Repayments",
included within the table entitled, "Loan Parameters" (page 13 of
this Annex).
9.   Government Funds includes all paid in equity, plus transfers to
Government for loan repayment and chargeable IDC, less depreciation.
!u. Special Funds represents the cumulative balance remaining in the
special funds at the end of the given year. This figure is derived
in the table entitled, "Special Funds Calculations" (page 19 of this
Annex).



ANNEX 26
- 115 -                         Page 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Costs
Capital Costs
1.        Costs were based on end 1991 price levels.  Shadow pricing was ap-
plied as follows: (a) taxes and duties were excluded; (b) a shadow exchange
rate of US$1 - Y 5.5 was used to convert foreign currencies to Yuan; (c) bor-
der prices were used for net imported items such as steel and timber; (d) all
state subsidies were removed from labor costs to reflect the economic cost of
labor to the country; and (e) a conversion factor of 1.23 was used to calcu-
late the cost of transmission and distribution facilities.
2.        Summarized below are annual disbursements of project costs, includ-
ing generation, transmission and distribution for both units after shadow-
pricing:
Generation La   Transmission    Distribution Lb   Total
Year               ------------        (Y million) -----------------
1991                  21.8               9.5                              31.3
1992                 184.3              18.9                   -         203.2
1993                 745.8              85.5                   -         831.3
1994                 484.2              64.4                110          658.6
1995                 169.5               9.5                110          289.0
1996                  61.4               -                  110           171.4
1997                  31.4               -                     -          31.4
Total         1.698.4            187.8                 330        2.216.2
la  For the plant only, the unit cost per kW after shadow-pricing is Y 2,830.
This compares to Y 2,710 estimated for the thermal units under the Ertan
Hydroelectric Project.
lb Distribution cost is taken as 20% of the generation cost.
O&M Costs
3.        The O&M costs were based on the actual cost analysis on a system
basis for HPEP8's grid including generation, transmission, distribution and
sales at Y 0.0137/kWh.



-116 -                       ANX-Z§
Page 2
Other Costs
4.        This was calculated at about Y 0.0046/kWh for administration, etc.
Fuel Cost
5.        The fuel cost vas estimated using a long-run marginal cost of coal
of Y 110 per ton and a unit consumption of 0.325 kg/kWh of standard coal of
7,000 Kcal/kWh.
Benefits
6.        Quantifying the benefits of power projects is difficult in all coun-
tries and particularly so in China, where tariffs and most other prices are
not subject to economic pressures and where moat power is allocated adminis-
tratively. It is generally accepted, however, that shortages of electricity
are constraining China's industrial production (causing undercapacity utiliza-
tion in industry) and will continue to do so in the near future. This sug-
gests that the economic benefit. of increasing power supply will be substan-
tial. A recent Bank report suggests the net value of electricity not served
is about Y 0.5/kWh.
7.        A conservative estimate of the value of electricity is obtained by
using the projected tariffs for HPEPB's system by 1995-2000, adjusted to end-
1991 price levels at 16.4, 16.7, 17.2, 18.3, 18.5 and 17.6 fen/kWh respect-
ively (page 8 of Annex 25) and used as the minimum proxy for the economic
value of electricity. In addition, other charges were also included to
reflect surplus benefits. Thee charges include the 102 local government
surcharge, the connection charge for large consumers, and the recently applied
surcharge of 2 fen/kWh for new power station construction to all consumers
except lighting, agricultural uses, and industries operating at a loss,
totally amounting to 1.4 fen/kWh.
Economic Rate Of Retur
8.        The IERR of the project, the discount rate which equalizes the
present value of economic costs and benefits, is estimated at 15.72 (see Table
l for details).
9.        The economic rate of return was also calculated based on HPEPB'S
overall expansion program for the period 1991-2000. On this basis the
economic rate of return of HPEPB's expansion program, including the proposed
project, is 13.42. The LRMC of the system on a program basis was estimated at
17.7 fen/kWh at a discount rate of 12 percent. This demonstrates that the
system tariff in the late 1990O will reach the level of LRMC.
Sen. itjliit
100       The sensitivity of the IERR of the project with respect to a 102
increase in investment cost, a one-year delay in conlissioning and a cost



- 117 -                        ANNEX 26
Page 3
price of Y 130 per ton, is presented below. These figures represent the upper
limit of possible cost overruns or delays in implementing the project.
IERR
(Z)
Base case                             15.7
101 cost overrun                      14.7
One-year delay in commissioning       14.1
Coal prices increase from             14.7
Y 120/ton to Y 130/ton



Table 1: YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
CaDital Investment
Trans-   Distr-   O&M   Fuel   Other  Total                                    Cash
Year       Plant  mission  bution   cost  cosa   costs  cost   Generation  Sales  Benefits  flow
1991        21.8      9.5        -       -     -      -      31.3         -          -       -    -31.3
1992       184.3    18.9         -      -      -      -    203.2          -         -        -   -203.2
1993       745.8    85.5         -       -     -       -    831.3         -         -       -    -831.3
1994       484.2    66.4       110       -     -      -    660.6          -         -       -    -660.6
1995       169.5      9.5      110      12.3  32.2    3.6  337.1        900       792    141.0  -196.1
1996        61.4      -        110     37.0  96.5   10.9  315.8    2,700        2,376    430.1   114.3
1997        31.4      -          -     51.4 134.1   15.2  232.1    3,750        3,300    613.8   381.7
1998          -       -          -     53.4 139.4   15.8  208.6    3,900        3,432    676.1   467.5               "
1999         -        -          -     53.4 139.4   15.8  208.6    3,900        3,432    683.0   474.4
2000-2020    -        -          -      53.4 139.4   15.8  208.6    3,900       3,432    652.1   443.5
2021          -       -          -      26.7  69.7    7.9  104.3    1,950       1,716    326.0   221.7
Economic Rate of Return - 15.72
Notes: (1)  Fuel costs:  fuel cost is estimated at a unit consumption of 0.325 kg of standard coal
per kWh.
(2)  Generation:  6,000 hours for thte first year of operation; 6,500 hours for the remaining              so
years.                                                                                                I
(3)  Sales:  using a system loss factor of 12.0Z for plant use and transmission and distribu-
tion losses.



- 119                                ANNEX 27
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Statistical Brief of the Electric Power Industry in China (1987).
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
B.1 Yanshi Power Plant Phase II Extension Feasibility Study Report (May
1987)
B.2 Environmental Impact Report (September 1988)
B.3 Conceptual Design Report of Yanshi Thermal Power Project, 1988
B.4 Economic Analysis of Yanshi Power Plant Based on Optimization of
Henan System (February 1987)
B.5 Information on Yanshi Thermal Power Project Vol. I & II by HPEPB
(July 1987)
B.6 Statistical Data of Electric Power Industry in Henan (1986, 87)
C.   Selected Work Sheets
C.1 Working Sheets for Economic Analysis
C.2 Working Sheets for Financial Forecasts.



Chart 1
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Energy
Minister
Vice Ministers
nChia National Nuclear                         Electnc Power
n   General Office      l   l          Industry Crporaon                           Dispatching Center
Department of                         China National Oil &
Poiicy & Leqislation                   Natura1 Gas Corporation                    Energy Information Ce
Department of Planning                   China National Offshore                     Electrc Power Planning
Oil Corporation                        & Engineering Insttutions
Department of                         China Northeast and                         Water Resources &
nital ConstructionI                    Inner-Mongolia United                        Hydropower Survey
Coal Indusby Co  rabon                        _& Design Institutes
Department of Sa'ety
& Environmental Protection                    China Napbonal                                                  -
F      Coal Co pration       J_colleges
Department of
Production Coordination                   China National Local                        Saeatific & Technical
Coal Mines                              Research Insttutes
Department of                       Development Corporabon
Economic Coordinabion       I
Huaneng Intemabonal Power      L
Department of                       Development Corporation
Enerr Conservabon
Regional Electric
Department of                         Power Administrabons
I        Science & Technology
China Intematiot-.o Water &
Department of Educaton                  EccwerCran
IChina HuadianL
rj           Department of                          Gru  Cop H rau on
Internafional Cooperaon      I
l~~Depa~riment ot                    China Electricity Couneil
Personnel & Labor
Nuclear Power Leading
4   ~Department of Electric Power                    Gou  State Councl
Oil to Coal Conversion
_F          -Department of                           Office, State Council
Hydropower Development
Departmnent of Rural
Energy & Electrification
-    [oDepartment 0 Coal
Department of Administration
Chief Engineer's Office
for Petroleum Industry
I Chief Engineers Office
fobr Nuclear lndusr1



Chart 2
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart of the State Energy Investment Corporation
Presidert
I
Vice Presidents
Chief Efonomlst  i-ej -  I     n
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!: iln32tRA:~~~~~~~~~~



10 Power Plants
12 Power Supply Bureaus
4 Construction &
Installalion Companies
Co                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Materials & Equipment
0                                          _ & E                             |          Supply Company
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2 Repair Shops
E              2 Technical Schools
2 Training Schools for
Skill Workers
Staff Training Center
0                            _    i E S                        qDesign Institute
2~~~~~~~~
4 <,,  82  q   Dispatching Center
1S 3                                                                |         Power Testng &
° _L                                    mResearch Institute
0~
C: --                                                                       Capital Construction
Planning
:WO8_     Power Supply|
Z                         -           i _                                        Producton 
Mfi n   _   o c         >    -|              Technical
RurSafety Inspection
U)~~~~~~~~~~~~C
3                                           Ps  v  _ q   Environmental Protectpon
_                  <e q~~ Finance!
u:   -{         ~~~Audit    
Erducation
2;~~~~~~~~~ao -|& rWages                              |
_) 0                                      SafPetsonneli
AvminientaProteion



CHINAChr4
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECTChr4
Project Implementation Schedule
I  I                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Calendar Year 19,91       19,92                   1993                    1994                    1995                    19,96                    1997
I                       .
0 
-0                                         0
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;                                 C:  -                          0
Key Events                      0           CD
0 a                0   2                                                                 CD02
0   0~~~~~~~~~~~E 05c
of Power Block~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m                                             -oB 
ErecIon f Bildig Srujctureshcmm 
PLATEQUIPMECT   MANUFACTURINGi   -4 
PLAntrc negUIPMEnT ERCIOntrcuedole  ruTe                                                                                           /0          3
sgnofBoiler & Au TlGre  -o.                          4be1en
Binstraumnation ofI& Conrl  N.
Insrmentration                                                    12Cntol  o.
othPoer System
TRAinSMISSION SYSTEM9



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __IB_ _ _  3RD   21 11   4R
)          \' ANYANO                               )SANGRN
I~~                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ NI IASGN                                       MOOOI / '.5-   
yoEM PEOPLES5
S H A N X I                                                                       UK   4,REP-OF KOREA
KOREA
/  (700AoNHlt=_  #  (   ,    / )  S<) 50MW)                                                                                 r.u   . ;.          jAPAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)AA
(  ~   ~        ..O.f'   .                     4.200Mw)                             L-N.                                                       35~~~(20 
SANMENRIA J250MW)  A     L                                                                          N       O N.*                                                          ;
x;IFENG   30MW)                                                                 -                                       A..g K. KII, O.
N IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA o
LUONA ~ ~         ~            ~
SHAANXI  K                                                                                                           i                          YANSHI Sc HNI N A
-   7z4X3DOM<-ULINI   SUOHE                                               YANSHITHERMAL POWER PROJECT
A N H U I                          HENAN PROVINCE POWER GRID
-ONG I 'EX)ST)NG   CONSTRUCT    FUTURE  PROJECT
1- DN-                                                                                                       500kV TRANSMISSION LINES
X   j   3,   3                                   W                                 A         /         4               500kV SUBSTATIONS
|  ____-  -  -  ---   220kV TRANSMISSION LINES
Dt^q0N0JM^W]G-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~O T      \                            )        )         )      THERMAL POWER PLANTS
*.             , t                                                      .,              .S t ' \                   HYDRO POWER PLANT
-f  2     o5     RAILROADS
0                                                        -RIVERS
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
H U B E I                 /               0                    t)  ;                                           /                                =  =  PROVINCE oOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
:AI.£. c                                                                             SP>s=X rhG                                                .    . Q.d .......................... d a ...... _ Jo W.....  n *,Y  0 o   ... t  fo  To W hoo t s °l 50  1 00  0 5 0   200
KILOMETERS
I!-                                          1 I7'                  pNOVMEAER  990



