Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17355
IWPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3433 - C:HA)
January31, 1998
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal (December 1991) $1 = Y 5.38
Exchange Rates During Project Years
Year Average
1991    -  5.36
1992    -  5.49
1993    -  5.75
1994    -  8.60
1995    -  8.30
1996    -  8.30
1997    -  8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPH          -  Electric Power of Henan
HPEPB        -  Henan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR          -  Implementation Completion Report
IDC          -  Interest During Construction
IERR         -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
LCB          -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          -  Limited International Bidding
LRMC         -  Long - Run Marginal Costs
Vice President       :  Jean - Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director     :  Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager      :   Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Staff Member        :   Junhui Wu, Power Engineer, EASEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface.1,
Evaluation Summary .iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. Project Background .1
B. Project Objectives ..............,.1
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .1
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project     .2
E. Project Sustainability                         .7
F. Bank Performance                                                            7
G. Borrower Performance                           .8
H. Assessment of Outcome                           .8
I. Future Operation                             .8
J. Key Lessons Learned                           .9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .1
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                  .18
Table 8a - 1: Project Costs in Million US$ .19
Table 8a - 2: Project Costs in Million Yuan ..............................  , 20
Table 8b: Project Financing .21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .21
Table 9 Attachment I: Ex - Post Economic Internal Rate of Return .22
Table 9 Attachment II: risk Analyses .23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs.. 26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions.. 27
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Projected and Actual Financial Statements of HPEPB.. 28
Annex 2: Aide - Memoire of Supervision Mission (Extract) .32
Annex 3: Project Review From The Borrower's Perspective ...................................................,. 38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT (LOAN 3433 - CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Yanshi Thermal Power
Project in China for which Loan 3433 - CHA in the amount of $180 million was approved on
January 14, 1992 and made effective on July 5, 1992.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, as scheduled. The total disbursed amount
to date is $178,846,351.57. The latest disbursement date is July 1, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Heinz Pape with the assistance of Junhui Wu and Shigeru
Kataoka, Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, and
reviewed by Mr. Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector Manager, and Mr. Yukon Huang, Country Director,
China. The Borrower/Beneficiary provided comments, which are included as an Annex to the
ICR.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in March
1997. The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements,
Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower/Beneficiary, internal
Bank memoranda and interviews with Bank and Borrower/Beneficiary staff involved in project
implementation. The Borrower/Beneficiary contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing their own evaluation of the execution of the project, and by providing comments on
the draft Bank ICR that were incorporated in the final version.



- iii -
CHINA
YANSHII THERMAL POWER PROJECT (LOAN 3433 - CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The Yanshi Thermal Power Project is located in Henan Province, central part of
China. At the time of project identification and appraisal, there was an acute shortage of
power supply in the province. Load shedding by rotation of supply was enforced almost
daily and the majority of industrial plants was forced to operate only four days a week,
resulting in underutilization of plant facilities and manpower and thus causing significant
economic losses.
2.    The Yanshi Thermal Power Project was designed to support the development of
Henan Province by mitigating power shortages through the addition of generation and
transmission capacity. The project was also used as a vehicle to: (a) support the national
policy of developing large coal- -fired power plants at nearby coal mines; (b) to minimize
the environmental impacts of coal- -fired power plants and to establish an environmental
monitoring program; (c) to reform the tariff systems; and (d) to familiarize Henan
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (HPEPB) with methods and techniques used in modern
electric utilities.
3.    Financing under the project provides for: (a) addition of two 300 MW coal-fired
thermal units to the existing Yanshi Thermal Power Plant, (b) extension of transmission
capacity by about 350 km of 220 kV lines and 600 MVA substation capacity; (c)
consulting services in design and engineering; (d) technical assistance to carry out a tariff
study and an action plan for tariff structure improvement; (e) provision of environmental
monitoring equipment; and (f) training of BPEPB's staff in methods and techniques of
utility management and operation.
4.    The design of the project responded to the country's regional and sectoral
objectives at the time of appraisal. The project objectives were consistent with the
Government's strategy to build the coal- -fired thermal power plant at mine - mouths for
efficient deployment of generation capacity and the Bank's country assistance goals
regarding transfer of appropriate modern technology, staff training, and modern utility
practice.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was executed during a period in which the power sector in China has
seen substantial reforms, most of which are in line with the recommendations made by the
Bank. The reforms also affected the institutional environment in which the project is
embedded. HPEPB, the beneficiary of the project, was a state-owned enterprise and



- iv -
vertically integrated (generation, transmission and distribution) provincial power utility.
HPEPB was also assigned with sector regulatory function in the province. In the course
of project implementation, Electric Power of Henan (EPH) was formed from HPEPB.
While HPEPB continues to assume its sector regulatory function, its commercial function
is left with EPH which is a limited liability company. However, the separation of
commercial entity and regulatory entity is still incomplete to date. Meanwhile, EPH has
been undergoing a process to transform itself to a transmission company with less
involvement in power generation. According to the sector restructuring agenda of the
province, in 1998 Yanshi Thermal Power Plant will be incorporated as a limited liability
company in accordance with the new Chinese Company law and will enter a power
purchase agreement with EPH.
6.    The project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. The investment component was
completed ahead of schedule. Institutional reforms, which were not explicitly included in
the project agreements are more advanced than could be expected at the time of project
appraisal. Tariff reform has been implemented with delays but substantial progress has
been made in rationalizing the tariff structure.
7.    Project Construction The first 300 - MW unit, unit #3, was put into commercial
operation in April 1996, which was about three months behind the schedule. The major
problems encountered were teething and interfacing problems. Learning from the
experience, HPEPB managed to start commercial operation of the second 300 - MW unit,
unit #4, more than three months ahead of schedule. In addition, a total of 374 km of
220 kV lines and 40 km of 110 kV lines have been erected. Two new substations and
extension of four substations have been completed with a total added capacity of
750 MVA. The reinforced transmission system was put into service before the end of
1996. The very successful implementation of the investment component must be credited
to the strong commitment and very capable management of the beneficiary. The Bank's
assistance also contributed to the success.
8.    Coal Issues The ash content of the coal has been higher than designed
(24.2 percent) and that is likely to be the case in the future. The high ash content--
averaging 32 percent in 1996 and 26 percent in the first eight months of 1997--would
prevent the power plant from being continuously operated at the rated capacity because
the designed slag removal system cannot cope with slag production at that output level.
The slag removal system of unit #3 was therefore retrofitted in 1997 at a cost of
Y 1.9 million which was financed by LHPEPB from its own resources. The slag removal
system of unit #4 will be retrofitted in 1998 at the same cost.
9.    Environment Improvement Unit #3 and unit #4 have been equipped with high
efficiency (99.6 and 99.8 percent respectively) electrostatic precipitators to minimize dust
emissions. HPEPB also replaced the low efficiency mechanical type dust collector of unit
#1, which increased the dust remove efficiency from 92.8 to 99.6 percent. The
replacement of the collector of unit #2 is under way since August 1997. These
replacements were financed by HPEPB. An environmental monitoring program has been
set up to monitor water quality, air quality and noise levels. Measurement records indicate



- v -
that standards (Chinese standards and Bank guidelines) were generally adhered to. Air -
quality standards were exceeded in some cases due to already existing high background
levels beyond permissible limits.
10.   Tariff Reforms have progressed satisfactorily. The tariff reform  action plan
developed through tariff studies was approved by the provincial authorities. Its
implementation has so far led to the following improvements: (a) average tariff level has
increased while reducing subsidies to the traditionally heavily subsidized sectors such as
residential and agriculture; (b) tariff structure has been improved by applying a unified
tariff system to the whole province except for six prefectures to replace the dual - track
pricing system; and (c) time - of - day pricing for peak and off - peak power consumption
has been offered to most consumers who have the potential to benefit from load
management. A phased increase of tariff level as part of the tariff reform plan set the target
that customers pay for the long - run marginal cost of supply soon after the year 2000.
11.   Training programs familiarized high - level staff of HPEPB with modern utility
management practices. Technical staff received training in operation and maintenance of
thermal power plants and in project - related issues. The project also provides a simulator
for the training of power plant operators. The hardware for the simulator has been
installed but problems occurred with the supplier of the software and HPEPB is currently
looking for another software supplier.
12.   Economic Performance The ex - post internal economic rate of return (IERR) is
estimated at 13.8 percent which is below the appraisal estimate of 15.7 percent but still
significantly above the social discount rate of 12 percent. The main reason for the lower
IERR is that the assumed energy production is lower than estimated at the time of project
appraisal. The off - take from Yanshi is now guaranteed at 3,300 GWh per year and the
ex -post IERR is based on that figure. The actual output can be higher but Yanshi will
have to compete with other plants to sell more and the appraisal estimate of 3,900 GWh
per year is unlikely to be reached on average. It should be noted in this context that in
North America, the average annual generation of modern coal- -fired power plants of the
same capacity (2*300 MW) is about 3,000 GWh. Risk analyses have been performed to
complement the IERR calculation using a probability approach to access the impact of the
perceived risk factors that affect the return of the project. Four risk variables have been
considered in the analysis, namely, annual generation hours, output level (heat rate
increases due to partial loading), energy selling price and coal cost. The expected IERR,
based on the weighted average of all simulated combination is 13.6 percent. This suggests
that the uncertainty of the return of the project investment is negligible and that the
project's economic viability is robust.
13.   Project Costs The project appraisal estimated the foreign cost at $180.0 million
and the local cost at Y 941.5 million. The actual foreign cost is estimated at $178.8 million
and the local cost at Y 1,708.5 million, equivalent to a total of $405.1 million. There is an
overall cost overrun of about 14 percent when expressed in US dollar terms although the
actual foreign cost is almost identical to the original estimate. Compared with the
appraisal, the actual local cost exceeded the estimate by 81 percent. About 70 percent of



- vi -
local cost overrun was caused by much higher - than - expected local rates of inflation1.
The other factors attributed the cost overrun are increased scope of transmission and
higher material and labor costs caused by delays in construction. In order to exclude the
effects of inflation, a more accurate cost analysis has been carried out by de-escalating
local costs to the appraisal dates using the actual inflation rates, the analysis indicates a
local cost overrun of about 18 percent, which can largely be explained by the increased
scope of transmission lines and substations. The construction of 220 kV transmission lines
exceeded the appraisal estimate by 24 km (374 km vs 350 km), the installed substation
capacity exceeded the estimate by 150 MVA (750 MVA vs 600 MVA) and 40 km of
110 kV lines have been built which were not included in the staff appraisal report (SAR).
These additions are justified on technical grounds.
14.   Loan and Project Covenants were generally complied with. It is noted that
financial covenants were fulfilled with two exceptions, i.e., self - financing ratio 18.4 percent
in 1994 and debt - service coverage ratio 1.0 in 1995, both are lower than the covenanted
financial performance ratios. However, this can largely be explained by the fact that during this
transition period of sector restructuring, the ownership of HPEPB's assets cannot be
clearly defined and therefore was not adequately reflected in the financial statements.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15.   The objectives of the project were consistent with those of the Chinese
Government and the Bank. The project achieved its major objectives and the beneficiary
has shown a strong sense of ownership.
16.   It is expected that the Yanshi Thermal Power Plant will continue to be managed
and operated efficiently thanks to the institutional capacity buildup through extensive
training as well as experience accumulated in the course of project implementation. In
1998, Yanshi Thermal Power Plant will be incorporated as a limited liability company in
accordance with the new Company Law. The agreed performance indicators sets targets
for future operation in terms of annual generation, unit availability, fuel efficiency,
improvement of environment, financial performance, and institutional development.
17.   Key lessons can be summarized as follows:
(a)   A very careful analysis of the expected coal quality is of paramount importance
and the design of components should be based on conservative assumptions
regarding the supply quality.
(b)   Design and procurement of auxiliary equipment should be given the same
attention as for major equipment.
The local rate of inflation increased from below 7 percent per annum. in 1991 and 1992 to values
between 15.0 percent and 24.0 percent in 1993 - 95. Project appraisal assumed an average annual
rate of inflation of 8.6 percent. Furthermore, the appraisal did not properly account for the annual
expenditure schedule. Price contingencies were calculated as 8.6 percent of the total local costs over
the investment period.



- vii -
(c)   The fire fighting system should not be designed and procured on an island-by-
island basis but should be dealt with as a separate contract for the plant as whole.
(d)   Procurement packages should be determined such that excessive interfacing will
be avoided. Strengthening of project management is also recommended to
reduce interfacing problems.
(e)   Accounting and financial management warrant further support given the prospect
of more broad sector and enterprise reforms. Accounting standards should be
brought in line with international standards.
(f)   Most provinces of China have seen a substantial increase in generation capacity
over the recent years. Shortage of power generation has eased and in some
provinces ended. In the future, the output of power plants is therefore likely to be
in line with the output of power plants in countries with a well - balanced demand
- supply system. The corresponding output is significantly lower than what has
usually been assumed so far in appraisals of power plants in China.
(g)   The Bank welcomes the formation of EPH which meets the Bank's agenda to
separate government from enterprise functions but the Bank should have been
notified before EPH was established. Project and loan agreements should
explicitly demand that the Borrower/Beneficiary has an obligation to inform the
Bank in advance of the planned formation of companies as that may have
repercussions on project or loan agreements.






YANSHI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3233 - CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The Yanshi Thermal Power Project is located in Henan Province, central part of China.
At the time of project identification and appraisal, there was an acute shortage of power supply
in the province. Load shedding by rotation of supply was enforced almost daily and most
industries were forced to operate only four days a week resulting in underutilization of plant
facilities and manpower and thus causing significant economic losses.
B. PROJEcr OBJECTIVES
2.    The objectives of the Yanshi Thermal Power Project were: (a) to alleviate the
power shortage through the extension of the existing Yanshi power plant by two coal- -
fired 300 MW thermal units; (b) to reinforce the transmission systems through the
construction of about 350 km of 220 kV transmission lines and associated substations with
a total capacity of 600 MVA; (c) to minimize environmental impacts by the construction
of a power plant with highly efficient environmental protection facilities and by the
installation of an environmental monitoring program; (d) to rationalize the tariff system
through a tariff study and subsequent tariff reforms; and (d) to improve the performance
of HPEPB through training programs with emphasis on the overall management of electric
utilities, financial management and operation and maintenance of coal- -fired power plants.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    Alleviation of Power Shortages. The two coal--fired 300--MW units commenced
commercial operation in 1996 and the construction of transmission lines and substations
was completed in the same year. By the end of 1997, 4,355 GWh of electricity has been
generated from the two units. The project already contributed to reduce power shortages
which are still prevalent at peak times. The project can be expected to make an even
greater contribution in the future when remaining minor teething problems are solved.
4.    Environmental Issues. The new generating units (unit #3 and unit #4) are
equipped with efficient environmental protection facilities. The electrostatic precipitators
reached efficiencies of 99.6 percent (unit #3) and 99.8 percent (unit #4) respectively.
HPEPB also replaced the low efficiency mechanical - type dust collector of the existing
unit #1 by an electrostatic precipitator with 99.6 percent efficiency. The replacement of
the unit #2 collector is under way since August 1997. These replacements were financed
by HPEPB.
5.    Water quality, air quality and noise levels have been monitored. Measurement
records indicate that standards (Chinese standards and Bank Guidelines) were generally
adhered to. Air quality standards were sometimes exceeded. That was not due to



-2-
emissions of the power plant but caused by high background values, some of which
already exceeded the standards. It should be noted in this context that Yanshi is located in
a dry area with high dust levels. Some noise levels have been noted to exceed the
standard, but usually only by a small margin, which is within the statistical error margin.
6.    Reform of Tariffs. A tariff study was conducted by HPEPB in 1993 and updated
in 1995 with the assistance of foreign consultants. A tariff reform plan was developed and
subsequently approved by the provincial government in January 1996.
7.    The tariff reforms implemented so far led to the following improvements:
(a) average tariff level has increased while reducing subsidies to the traditionally heavily
subsidized sectors such as residential and agriculture; (b) tariff structure has been
improved by applying a unified tariff system to the whole province except for six
prefectures to replace the dual - track pricing system; and (c) time - of - day pricing for
peak and off-peak power consumption has been offered to most consumers who have the
potential to benefit from load management.
8.    The average retail tariff excluding VAT and surcharges was raised from
13.8 fen/kWh in 1992 to 23.9 fen/kWh in 1996 and was in the order of 27.0 fen/kWh in
1997. Including surcharges, the average price paid by consumers was probably around
35.0 fen/kWh in 1997, which is still lower than the estimated long--run marginal costs of
around 45.0 fen/kWh. A phased increase of tariff level as part of the tariff reform plan set
the target that customers pay for the long--run marginal cost of supply soon after the
year 2000.
9.    Improving the Performance of HPEPB. In accordance with SAR, training
programs were carried out in China and abroad with emphasis on training of high--level
staff in management and financial issues. Technical staff members were also extensively
trained to further improve HPEPB's traditionally sound technical performance. It is
difficult to quantify the impacts of the training programs on the HPEPB's performance but
there are encouraging signs that HPEPB is benefiting from them. The Bank has noticed an
increasing awareness of the importance of efficiency among HPEPB's management staff
and HPEPB explicitly acknowledges the contribution of the training programs to the
capacity building of the power sector in Henan province (see the "Project Review from the
Borrower's Perspective" in Annex 3).
D. hIPLEMrENTATIoN RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
10.   Implementation Organization The project was executed during a period in
which the power sector in China has seen substantial reforms, most of which are in line
with the recommendations made by the Bank. The reforms also affected the institutional
environment in which the project is embedded. HPEPB, the beneficiary of the project, was
a state--owned enterprise and vertically integrated (generation, transmission and
distribution) provincial power utility. HPEPB was also assigned with sector regulatory
function in the province. In the course of project implementation, Electric Power of Henan
(EPH) was formed from BPEPB. While HPEPB continues to assume its sector regulatory



- 3 -
function, its commercial function is left with EPH which is a limited liability company.
However, the separation of commercial entity and regulatory entity is still incomplete to
date. Meanwhile, EPH has been undergoing a process to transform itself to a transmission
company with less involvement in power generation. According to the sector restructuring
agenda of the province, in 1998 Yanshi Thermal Power Plant will be incorporated as a
limited liability company in accordance with the new Chinese Company law and will enter
a power purchase agreement with EPH.
11.   Implementation  Schedule. The construction of unit #3 was completed
2.5 months ahead of schedule. The unit was synchronized on May 20, 1995. Commercial
operation started on April 18, 1996, which was 109 days later than foreseen. The delay
was caused by interfacing and, above all, teething problems.
12.   The construction of unit #4 was completed almost 10 months ahead of schedule.
The unit was synchronized on December 14, 1995. Learning from the interfacing and
teething problems of unit #3, HPEPB managed to largely avoid the problems at unit #4.
The unit was put into commercial operation on September 14, 1996 which was 109 days
ahead of schedule.
13.   A total of 374 km of 220 kV lines and 40 km of 110 kV lines have been erected.
Two new substations and extension of four substations have been completed with a total
added capacity of 750 MVA. The reinforced transmission system was put into service
before the end of 1996.
14.   Teething Problems. Teething problems mainly occurred during commissioning of
unit #3. The boiler repeater and the governor system of the turbines were among the
components affected by teething problems. As a matter of fact, the major problems were
caused by components of the auxiliary system such as the coal mill, fans, and the ash
handling system. This is because inadequate attention was given to the auxiliary equipment
in the design and procurement phase.
15.   Interfacing Problems. The large number of contract packages--the IBRD loan
financed 17 packages plus locally financed package required numerous and often complex
coordination activities. Overall, the coordination activities were executed very well as
indicated by the fact that unit #4 was completed ahead of schedule. However, interfacing
problems occurred and caused delays, in particular with unit #3. Future projects will
certainly benefit if the number and scope of procurement packages will be determined in
such a way that interfacing activities are kept at manageable levels.
16.   High Ash Content of the Coal. Coal is supplied by one large local mine (Yima)
and several small local mines. In 1996, the average ash content was around 32.0 percent
compared with a design value of 24.2 percent. In the first eight months of 1997, HPEPB
managed to bring the average ash content down to about 26.0 percent by increasing the
supply from small mines. Compared with the Yima mine, the small mines produce coal
with a higher calorific value and a lower ash content. As there is little room left to further
increase the supply from small mines, the ash content will probably continue to be higher
than designed. That could prevent the units from being continuously operated at the most



- 4 -
efficient output levels because the designed slag removal system cannot cope with the slag
production at output levels continuously exceeding 90 percent of rated capacity. The slag
removal system of unit #3 was therefore retrofitted in 1997 at a cost of Y 1.9 million
which was financed by HPEPB from its own resources. The slag removal system of unit
#4 will be retrofitted in 1998 at the same cost.
17.   Heat Rate. The average heat rate declined from  445 gce/kWh in 1996 to
389 gce/kWh in 1997. That is still significantly above the design heat rate of 325 gce/kWh.
The design rate could be reached if the units are operated at the rated capacity. Except
for short trial periods, the units were operated below the rated capacity because of the
above mentioned problems with the slag removal system and, in many months of 1997,
abundance of hydropower in the system. The availability of 'cheap' hydropower was the
major reason why unit #3 was, on average, operated below rated capacity after the
retrofitting of its slag removal system.
18.   Project Costs (excluding Interest During Construction) The project appraisal
estimated the foreign cost at $180.0 million and the local cost at Y 941.5 million. The final
foreign cost is estimated at $178.8 million and the local cost at Y 1,708.5 million,
equivalent to a total of $405.1 million. There is an overall cost overrun of about
14 percent when expressed in US dollar terms whereas the actual foreign cost is almost
identical to the original estimate.
19.   Compared with the appraisal, the actual local cost exceeded the estimate by
81 percent. About 70 percent of local cost overrun was caused by much higher-than-
expected local rates of inflation2. Another 15 percent are due to the increased scope of the
transmission facilities. The other factor is delays in construction causing higher material
and labor costs. The construction of 220 kV transmission lines exceeded the appraisal
estimate by 24 km (374 km vs 350 km), the installed substation capacity exceeded the
estimate by 150 MVA (750 MVA vs 600 MVA) and 40 km of 110 kV lines have been
built which were not included in the SAR. The additions are, however, justified on
technical grounds. In order to exclude the effects of inflation, a more accurate cost
analysis has been carried out by de-escalating local costs to the appraisal dates using the
actual inflation rates, the analysis indicates a local cost overrun of about 18 percent, which
can largely be explained by the increased scope of transmission lines and substations.
20.   Loan Disbursement. Loan disbursement was slower than estimated in the initial
years and caught up in the 4th year. A comparison of the estimated loan disbursements at
appraisal with the actual disbursements is given in Table 4. Total disbursement to date
amounted to $178,846,352. The latest disbursement date was July 1, 1997. The closing
date of the loan was December 31, 1997, as planned.
2 The local rate of inflation increased from below 7 percent per annum. in 1991 and 1992 to values
between 15.0 percent and 24.0 percent in 1993--95. Project appraisal assumed an average annual
rate of inflation of 8.6 percent. Furthermore, the appraisal did not properly account for the annual
expenditure schedule. Price contingencies were calculated as 8.6 percent of the total local costs over
the investment period.



- 5 -
21.   Procurement. The project included 17 procurement contracts for equipment
financed under the IBRD loan, of which 14 were awarded through international
competitive bidding (ICB) and 3 through limited international bidding (LIB). The total
amount of the ICB procurement contracts was $172.216 million and the amount of the
LIB contracts $0.672 million. The IBRD loan also financed $3.977 million of steel
products required for civil works. The steel products were procured following local
competitive bidding procedures.
22.   Procurement was carried out in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines with one exception. The exception is for the environment vehicle. HPEPB had
planned foreign equipment purchases of $100,000 and local purchases of $150,000. For
compatibility and maintenance reasons, HPEPB later decided to purchase all equipment
from abroad. As a consequence, the estimated equipment costs exceeded the $200,000
limit for LIB purchases and should have been subject to ICB, whereas HPEPB awarded
the contract through LIB procedures. The Bank considered that HPEPB had valid reasons
to purchase all equipment from abroad but HPEPB should have notified the Bank prior to
deviating from the agreed procurement procedures.
23.   Consulting Services. Out of the total IBRD loan, an amount of $0.950 million
was spent on consulting services. Consulting services were provided for (i) conducting
tariff studies, and (ii) engineering. The consultants fulfilled their terms of reference and
HPEPB was satisfied with their performance. The tariff reform implementation plan
developed based on the outcome of tariff studies was subsequently approved by the
provincial authorities. Two local and one foreign consulting companies assisted HPEPB in
design of components, review of bidding documents, bid evaluation, interfacing between
different islands, and review of suppliers' drawings, which facilitated the project
construction.
24.   Training. Training focused on power utility management, financial and technical
issues. Training took place in China and abroad. In total, 315 persons (885 staff-month)
received training, of which, 72 persons were trained in Hong Kong, Australia, France and
Japan. In addition, technicians also received on--the--job training from the Consulting
Engineer and equipment suppliers. The costs of training abroad, totaling $0.930 million
were financed out of the IBRD loan.
25.   The relevant authorities did not approve project funds to be used for overseas
training of teaching staff and environmental protection. As the project agreement includes
these training components, HPEPB decided to finance the training programs from its own
resources. Six teachers participated in a two - week training course in Germany. The
training course on environmental protection is scheduled for 1998.
26.   Economic Performance. At appraisal, the IERR was estimated at 15.7 percent
The ex - post estimate is 13.8 percent, higher than the social discount rate of 12 percent. It
indicates that the project is feasible from the overall economic point of view. However,
compared to the appraisal, the IERR is lower. This is because the annual generation is
likely to be lower and the average heat rate is likely to be higher than the original



-6-
estimates. The ex-post IERR of 13.8 percent assumes that the average annual generation
will equal the guaranteed sales of 3,300 GWh rather than the appraisal estimate of
3,900 GWh and that the heat rate will average 348 gce/kWh instead of 325 gce/kWh. The
appraisal estimates were overly optimistic; in particular as regards the average annual
generation. In North America, modem coal- -fired power plants with an installed capacity
of 2*300 MW generate about 3,000 GWh per year on average.
27.   Risk analyses have been performed to complement the IERR calculation using a
probability approach to access the impact of the perceived risk factors that affect the
return of the project. Four risk variables have been considered in the analysis, namely,
annual generation hours, output level (heat rate increases due to partial loading), energy
selling price and coal cost. The expected IERR, based on the weighted average of all
simulated combination is 13.6 percent. The results of risk analyses based on
1000 scenarios simulation show that the IERR is likely to fall within the range between
9.7 and 17.6 percent and that the probability of the IERR being less than 12 percent ( the
social discount rate in China) is only 15.5 percent. This suggests that the uncertainty of the
return of the project investment is negligible and that the project's economic viability is
robust. Details are provided in Table 9 and in two attachments to the table.
28.   Financial Performance. BPEPB's financial statements for the period 1991--96
are displayed in Annex 1. The financial covenants require: (a) that in the years 1992--94,
the net operating income equivalent does not fall below 20 percent of the average annual
investment program and that it does not fall below 25 percent after 1994; (b) that HPEPB
does not incur any debt unless its debt service coverage ratio is at least 1.3 times. Annex 1
shows that, with two exceptions (self - financing ratio 18.4 percent in 1994 and debt-
service coverage ratio 1.0 in 1995), the covenants were complied with. It must be noted
that the statements for 1995 and 1996 do not give a correct picture of HPEPB's actual
financial situation.
29.   As part of the ongoing power sector restructuring, ownership changes have taken
place since 1995. HPEPB has been increasingly becoming a power purchase and bulk sales
transmission company with less investments in power generation. Due to the nature of this
transition, the ownership of HPEPB's assets cannot be clearly defined and therefore was
not adequately reflected in the financial statements.
30.   Environment. The project was designed to meet environmental standards as set in
Chinese and World Bank guidelines and to provide for the constant monitoring of the
discharge, ambient, and ash disposal areas. Measurement records indicate that noise levels
and air and water quality are generally within allowable limits. For measurements which
exceeded the standards were mainly caused by high background levels (air quality) or
within statistical error margins (noise level). Monitoring is performed at fixed
measurement stations and by the environment vehicle which was provided for the project.
31.   Resettlement. No human resettlement was required for the construction of units
#3 and #4. The construction of the transmission components incurred costs for land
acquisition and dismantling of facilities (e.g., 10 kV line, irrigation wells, and non -



- 7 -
residential houses). Total costs amounted to Y 10.37 million, of which Y 9.51 million or
92 percent was paid for land acquisition.
32.   Project Risks. The major risk factor perceived is that the average annual power
production will be lower than the appraisal estimate of 3,900 GWh per year. Yanshi is
guaranteed the purchase of 3,300 GWh per year. Yanshi is capable of producing more
energy but will have to compete with other plants to do so. Taking into account that new
and more efficient thermal power plants will be added in the future and/or that abundant
'cheap' hydropower may occasionally become available as has been the case in some
months in 1997, it will not be easy for Yanshi to sell more than 3,300 GWh and it is
unlikely that the appraisal estimate of 3,900 GWh will be reached on average. There are,
however, strong indications that the lower - than - scheduled output will not translate into
poor financial performance. The present tariff of 34.2 fen/kWh (excluding VAT) which
Yanshi is paid for the contracted minimum purchase of 3,300 GWh should guarantee cost
recovery and a reasonable profit. The Bank has been informed that future operation cost
increases, in particular rising coal prices, will be rolled over into the selling price under a
tariff adjustment mechanism. At present, Yanshi's power selling price is determined
annually by the Provincial Pricing Bureau. There are certain risks that cost increases will
not be rolled over entirely or with substantial delays. These, however, will not
substantially affect Yanshi's financial performance. As scheduled, Yanshi power plant will
be incorporated as a limited liability company in 1998. Yanshi will then sign a power
purchase agreement with EPH. The power purchase agreement is expected to define a
capacity charge and an energy charge which, together, will guarantee full cost recovery
and a reasonable profit as long as the power plant is operated efficiently.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   The project is sustainable. The annual output may turn out to be lower than
estimated at the time of project appraisal but the minimum contracted output and the
power purchase price should enable Yanshi to cover all costs and make reasonable profits.
Efficient operation and maintenance of the plant can be expected based on HPEPB's past
records and the training provided by the project. Operation and maintenance will certainly
also benefit from extensive training using the simulator. The training in methods and
techniques of utility management has provided the foundations for the efficient
management of Yanshi Thermal Power Plant which shall be established as a limited
liability company in 1998.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
34.   Bank performance from project preparation through completion was satisfactory.
The Bank maintained good relations with the borrower, the beneficiary and the
consultants. The Bank assisted HPEPB where required and supervised the project
throughout the execution. A request for reallocation of the loan proceeds was speedily
approved ($10 million from "Unallocated" to "Goods"). The Bank pointed to HPEPB the
weak points in the tariff study which was prepared in 1993. That led to an updated version
in 1995 and its tariff reform implementation plan was approved by the provincial



- 8 -
authorities. The Bank also cautioned HPEPB about delays in the implementation of
project components in the initial stage, which ensured that, overall, the project was
completed in a timely manner.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The performance of HPEPB was highly satisfactory. HPEPB has shown a strong
commitment to fully implement the project on time. Problems were addressed immediately
and efforts were made to solve them, including spending money from own resources as
needed. During the project construction, HPEPB has shown a remarkable capability to
learn from experience. The teething and interfacing problems which delayed the
commercial operation of unit #3 by three months were largely avoided in commissioning
unit #4, enabling the unit to start commercial operation more than three months ahead of
schedule. HPEPB managed to reduce the ash content by obtaining more coal from mines
with better coal quality. The ash content is still above the design value but the company
invested money from its own resources to retrofit the slag removal system of unit #3 and
the unit can now be operated efficiently even if the ash content is higher than designed.
The removal system of unit #4 will be retrofitted in 1998.
36.   Institutional reforms, which were not explicitly part of project agreements, have
been advanced. Tariff reforms were implemented behind the schedule but it must be noted
that delays in reforms are, to a large extent, beyond the control of HPEPB. Rationalization
of tariff structure achieved so far is satisfactory as regards the unification of retail tariffs
and the introduction of time-of-day tariffs. Planned tariff increases also ensure that
electricity tariff in the province will reach the level of the long-run marginal costs soon
after the year 2000.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   The project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. The major objectives were
achieved and the beneficiary has shown a strong sense of ownership which promises that
the future performance of the power plant will be satisfactory.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
38.   It is expected that the Yanshi Thermal Power Plant will continue to be managed
and operated efficiently thanks to the institutional capacity build - up in the course of
project implementation. In 1998, Yanshi Thermal Power Plant will be incorporated as a
limited liability company in accordance with the new Company Law. The power purchase
agreement which Yanshi is expected to enter with EPH and the financial statements of the
company will be reviewed by the Bank. If necessary, recommendations for improvement
will be made. The well - established cooperation between the beneficiary and the Bank
promises that the recommendations will be given due consideration.
39.   The performance indicators for future operation were discussed with HPEPB
during the supervision mission in April 1997. The agreed performance indicators are



- 9 -
displayed in Table 6 in Part II, which sets targets for future operation in terms of annual
generation, unit availability, fuel efficiency, improvement of environment, financial
performance, and institutional development.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.   Key lessons can be summarized as follows:
(a)  A very careful analysis of the expected coal quality is of paramount
importance and the design of components should be based on conservative
assumptions regarding the supplied quality.
(b)  Design and procurement of auxiliary equipment should be given the same
attention as for major equipment.
(c)  The fire fighting system should not be designed and procured on an island -
by - island basis but should be dealt with as a separate contract for the plant
as whole.
(d)  Procurement packages should be determined such that no excessive amount
of interfacing work will be required3. Strengthening of project management is
also recommended to reduce interfacing problems.
(e)  Accounting and financial management warrant further support.
(f)  Most provinces of China have seen a substantial increase in generation capacity
over the last years. Shortage of power generation has eased and in some
provinces ended. In the future, the output of power plants is likely to be in line
with the output of power plants in countries with a well balanced demand-supply
system. The corresponding output is significantly lower than what has usually
been assumed so far in appraisals of power plants in China.
(g)  Project and loan agreements should explicitly demand that the Borrower!
Beneficiary has obligations to inform the Bank in advance of the planned
formation of companies as that may have repercussions on project or loan
agreements.
3   HPEPB proposes to reduce the number of packages and that a single design company handles all
design work in order to reduce interfacing problems; see the "Project Review from the Borrower's
Perspective" in Annex 3. The latter will be very difficult to achieve as it is a long established practice
that contractors use their own design companies.



- 10 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objecfives
Not
Substantial      Partial     Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                     X
Sector policies                                            X
Financial objectives                                       X
Institutional development                   x
Physical objectives                         X
Poverty reduction                                                                         X
Gender concerns                                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                                   X
Environmental objectives                    X
Public sector management                                   X
Private sector development                                                                X
Project Sustainability
Likely                                    Unlikely                                 Uncertain
x
Bank Perfonnance
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                                   X
Preparation assistance                                           X
Appraisal                                                        X
Supenrision                                                      X
Beneficiary Performance
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                                        X
Implementation                            X
Covenant compliance                                                x
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory        Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 11 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Title                            Purpose                Approval            Status
Ln. 2382 - CHA          To construct a rockfill dam, a spillway, an  02/21/84  Loan was closed on
Lubuge Hydroelectric    underground powerhouse, to install 4              06/30/92.
Project                 generating units of 150 MW each, 3
single circuits of 220 kV transmission
lines; to provide consultant services and a
training program.
Ln. 2493 - CHA          To construct a 500 kV transmission line    02/19/85  Loan was closed on
Second Power Project    from Xuzhou to Shanghai and 5 asso-               06/30/92.
ciated substations totaling 3,500 MVA in
capacity, to install tele - control and tele-
communications equipment for load
dispatching, and to provide training for
500 kV transmission lines and substa-
tions.
Ln. 2706 - CHA          To construct a coal- -fired thrnnal power   06/14/88  Loan was closed on
Beilungang Thermal      project with the first 600 - MW unit with         06/30/94.
Power Project          the first singlc circuit of 500 kV trans-
mission line with associated substations,
and to carry out a training program and a
tariff study for the East China power grid.
Ln. 2707 - CHA          To construct a 110 m high concrctc   05/29/86     Loan was closed on
Yantan Hydroelectric    gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse,            06/30/94.
Project                 and a shiplift; to install 4 gencrating units
of 275 MW each, 2 single circuits of 500
kV transmission lincs and 3 associatcd
substations; and to carry out a training
program.
Ln. 2775 - CHA &        To construct a 10)1 m high concrete  0(1/06/87 &   Implementation under
Ln. 3515 - CHA          gravity darn, a spillway. a powerhousc and  O9/()1/92  way. Closing dates
Shuikou Hydroclectric   a navigation lock; to install 7 generating        0)6/30/93 & 12/31/96.
Projects I & II         units of 20(0 MW cachl; to carry out a
rcscttlcment program in thc reservoir, an
action plan for tariff rcfonn, and a
traininlg programn for planning and
finan cial maniagcmcnt



- 12 -
Table 2: (Cont'd)
Year of
Loan Title                         Purpose               Approval            Status
Ln. 2852 - CHA         To install 2 additional coal- -fired units   06/23/87    The loan was closed on
Wujing Thermal Power   of 300 MW each and associated 220 kV          06/30/95.
Project               tranrsmission lines and substations; to
provide online computer control and
automatic load dispatching center, to
carry out a masterplan study for the
distribution network in Shanghai and a
training program.
Ln. 3387 - CHA &       To construct a 240 m high arch dam  07/02/91   Implementation under
Ln. 3933 - CHA         with an underground powerhouse, to    &       way. Closing dates
Ertan Hydroelectric   install 6 550 - MW generating units  08/22/95    12/31/96 and
Projects I & II       and associated equipment; to carry out         12/31/2001.
an environmental management
program, studies of power pricing and
reservoir operation, and a training
program.
Cr. 2305 - CHA &      To construct a 56 m high gravity dam  10/31/91   Implementation under
Ln. 3412 - CHA         and an underground powerhouse with            way. Closing date
Daguangba Multipurpose  4 x 60 MW generating units; to erect a       12/31/97.
Project                36 km long double - circuit 220 kV
transmission line and to build canals to
irrigate 12,700 ha of land.
Ln. 3462 - CHA         To install 2 additional 600 MW    04/12/92   Implementation under
Zouxian Thermal Power   generating units; to construct 500 kV        way. Closing date
Project               and 220 kV transmission lines and              06/30/99.
substations; and to carry out an air
quality control study, a power tariff
study, an action plan for tariff adjust-
ment, and a training program for the
teclhnical, financial, and management
staff of SPEPB.
Ln. 3606 - CHA         To construct a pumped - storage hydro-   05/18/93   Implementation under
Tianhuangping          electric power plant with six 300 MW          way. Closing date
Hydroelectric Project  reversible pump - turbine units, together     12/31/2001.
with upper and lower reservoirs, a water
conveyance system, an underground
powerhouse; to erect 250 km long 500
kV transmission lines; to carry out
studies of optimal power plant operation
and its output pricing; and to strengthen
the benericiary's organization through
teclhical assistance and training.



- 13 -
Table 2: (Cont'd)
Year of
Loan Title                          Purpose               Approval            Status
Ln. 3718 - CHA         To construct a coal- -fired thermal  03/22/94    Implementation under
Yangzhou Thermal       power plant with two 600 MW gener-             way. Closing date
Power Project          ating units; to erect two 500 kV trans-         12/31/2000.
mission lines (30 km long); to extend
technical assistance for the development
and implementation of improved
accounting and financial management
information systems; and undertake
management development and staff
training.
Ln. 3848 - CHA         To construct a new 500 kV transmis-  02/28/95   Implementation
Sichuan Transmission   sion network consisting of 2,260 km of         commenced. Closing date
Project                transmission lines and 5,250 MVA of             12/31/2001.
substations; provide technical assistance
for implementation of sector reform
plan, organizational improvements and
financial management systems.
Ln. 3846 - CHA         To construct Beilungang Phase II power  02/28/95    Implementation
Zhejiang Power         plant consisting of three 600 MW coal-         commenced. Closing date
Development Project    -fired units; to construct 400 circuit -        12/31/2002.
km of 500 kV transmission lines,
2,250 MVA of 500 kV substations and
reinforce distribution networks in
Hangzhou and Ningbo; to extend
technical assistance to assist the power
company in commercialization and
corporatization, establish computerized
financial management information
system, improve transmission and
distribution planning and upgrade
environmental monitoring.
Ln. 3980 - CHA         To construct two 600 MW coal- -fired    02/27/96    Implementation
Henan (Qinbei) Thennal  thermal power units; to erect two             commenced. Closing date
Power Project          165 km 500 kV transmission lines; to            12/31/2002.
assist HPEPB in engineering,
procurement and construction
supervision; and to extend technical
assistance to support the
implementation of the power sector
reform action plan.



- 14 -
Table 2: (Cont'd)
Year of
Loan Title                          Purpose               Approval            Status
Lii 41720 - CHA        To construct the first two coal- -fired  05/27/97    Project has been
Tuoketuo Thennal Power  600 - MW units in Inner Mongolia              approved but not signed
Project                Autonomous Region; to implement a              yet.
desertification control and dryland
management program: to assist TEPGC
with the introduction; of modem
accounting and financial management
systems, environmental management,
operation and maintenance of the power
plant and involvement of private
investors in existing and new power
projects in Inner Mongolia.
To construct two 220 kV indoor
substations in Beijing: to add a
250 MVA transformer to Wangfujing
substation in Beijing; and to assist
NCPGC to implement accounting and
financial management systems.
Ln. 41970 - CHA        To construct two 900 - 1000 MW coal-   06/24/97    Project has been
Waigaoqiao Thennal     -fired supercritical units; to install FGD     approved but not signed
Power Project          facilities at Shidongkou Power Plant to        yet.
offset S02 emissions from the project; to
construct two 500 kV transmission
lines; to assist SMEPC in construction
supervision, interfacing and quality
assurance control; to provide technical
assistance to SMEPC to implement
modern accounting and financial
management systems, promote efficient
management and power sector reforms
including financial and corporate
restructuring of the generation
company.



- 15 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle              Date planned               Date actual
Identification/Preparation                                        10/86
Appraisal (a)                                                 1989 and 1991
Negotiations (a)                                                 05/89
Board presentation (a)                                      06/89 and 01/14/92
Signing                                                         02/07/92
Effectiveness                                                   05/07/92
Project Completion                    12/31/96                  09/14/96 (#)
Loan closing                          12/31/97                  12/31/97
(a) A first Staff Appraisal Report was completed in early 1989, negotiations were held from
May 8 to May 11, 1989, and Board presentation took place on June 13, 1989. Due to incidents
in the People's Republic of China, the project was later put on hold until 1991. The Appraisal
Report was updated in late 1991. It turned out that the most important project parameters, in
particular project costs and financing requirements, had hardly changed since 1989. There was
no need to change the original World Bank loan of US$180 million (excluding IDC) and as
Loan and Project Agreements were still valid, formal negotiations were not held again.
(#) Start of commercial operation of unit #4.
Table 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
FY93    FY94   FY95    FY96    FY97   FY98  FY99
Appraisal estimate       44.20   124.10   164.70   171.30   176.60  180.00
Actual                   32.37   76.03   147.74   165.90   178.85  178.85
Actual as percent of estimate    73.2    61.3    89.7    96.8    101.3   99.4
Date of latest disbursement: July 1, 1997



- 16 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IPLEMENTATION
Indicators                           Appraisal estimate        Actual          (Comparison)
1.  Major equipment contract                  04/15/92              02/25/92        (- 2 months)
2.   Construction of 300 - MW units
a) Start excavation                      08/01/92              07/15/92        (- 0.5 months)
b) Start boiler steel structure (unit #3)  08/15/93            06/16/93        (- 2 months)
(unit #4)                              04/16/94
c) Boiler Drum Lift (unit #3)             12/93                01/12/94        (+ 1 month)
(unit #4)                                      12/06/94
d) Boiler Hydrostatic Pressure Test (unit #3)  10/15/94        07/13/94        (- 3 months)
(unit #4)                         05/06/95
e) Synchronizing (unit #3)                                     03/20/95
(unit #4)                                        12/14/95
f) 7 days full load test completion (end of
commissioning)
uniit #3             06/95                 09/20/95        (+ 3 months)
unit #4              06/96                 02/07/96        (- 4 months)
g) Commercial operation (unit #3)         12/31/95             04/18/96        (+ 3.5 months)
(unit #4)           12/31/96              09/14/96        (- 3.5 months)
h) Completion of Acceptance Tests
- unit #3                                                   end 1997
- unit #4                                                   08/09/96
3.   Construction of 220 - kV transmission lines and  To be com -   December 1996  (- 4 months)
associated substations                   missioned in
04/97



- 17 -
TABLE 6: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Project               Key Performance lndcators                 Basine 199  wr      195        19         1997        1998       1999      Risks and Critkal Asumptions
Objedives                                                         Benchmark
Redurti  if            Annual Gefneation (GWh)                                                                                             Risks
AcutePower            *      Unit #3                           1,950(benchmark)    272.4    717.8        1,350.0    1,750.0     1,750.0    Competition from other plants
Shortage              *      Unit #4                           1,950 (benchmark)     38.6    511.6       1,465.0    1,750.0     1,750.0
Availability (percent)
*     ULit #3                           85 (benchmark)                    52.4      84.0       80.0        85.0     Equipment failures,
*     Unit#4                            85(benchmark)                     770       81.2       80.0        85.0    irnpropermaintenance
Fuel efficiency (coal cons. in goe/kWh)  325 (benchmark)    423            445      389        348         348      Opemting excessively in partial load.
low coal quality
Critical assumptions
Implementation of planned taTiff
Eennonl Efflency    Avetage retail tariff                              24.08        23.30    25.38        2650        28.22      30.05    increases; inflation not exceeding
Prking                (fen/kWh, 1997 prices, excl. VAI)                                                                                    4percent
Applcat.ofunifiedretal tariffs                   7.69         7.96    8.33          15.00     100.00     10000      Continued introduction
(percent of'sales)                                                                                                  of unified tariffs
Applicat. oftime - of- day tariff                2 14         2.71    3.22         20.00       80.00      80.00     Continued introduction
(percent of sales)                                                                                                  of time - of- day tariffs
Risks
Incease f             Lines constructed (km)                   350 (benchmark)     270       414         414          414        414       Equipment deficiency
transmission                                                                                                                               and
capacity              Transf capacity added (MVA)              600 (benchmark)      410       750        750          750        750       improper maintenance
Risks
Improvenent of         ESP efficiency
Environment           .      Unit #1 (retrofitting end 1996)          <96.4         <96.4    <96.4        99.6       99.5        99.4      ESP equipment deficiency
*     Unit #2 (retrofitting end 1997)           < 92.8       <92.8     < 92.8     < 92.8     > 99.3      > 99.3     and
Unit #3                                                              > 99.3       99 7       99.6        99.5     improper maintenance
*     Unit #4                                                           99.8       99.7       99.6        99.5
Critical assumption
Financial              Selffinancing ratio (percent, net operating      18.4         27.7       20.0      25.0       25.0        25.0     implementation ofplanned tariff
Performance           income/ average annual investment                                                                                   increases and improved financial
management
Critical assumption
institutionaI         Overseas tranng provided                          57           77         77        77          80         80
Development           (staff- months)                                                                                                      Implementabon of remaning trainng
program as planned
Domestic traiing provided                       795          S05        805        805        005        S05
(staff- months)
Notes:
Synchronization on May20, 1995 (anit #3) and December 14,1995 (Unit #4). Start ofcomrnercial operation on April 18. 1996 (unit #3) and on September 14, 1996 (unit #4)



- 18 -
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study        Purpose as Defined at          Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal
Tariff Study    Review level and structure of  Completed.     Based on the findings of the
electricity tariffi on the basis               studies, a tariff action plan
of long - run marginal costs.  A first study which  was defined and approved by
Define action plan to     was completed in     the provincial government in
implement rational tariff  1993, had some weak   January 1996. Substantial
structures and to bring tariffs  points and the study    reforms of the tariff structure
in line with the cost of  was therefore updated   have since been made; some
supply.                   with the help of     even before January 1996.
international        Tariffs must, however, still
consultants.         be raised significantly before
the price paid by consumers
for power supply (tariff+
surcharges) reflects the long
- run marginal costs.



- 19 -
Table 8A - 1: PROJECT COSTS IN MILLION US$
Appraisal estimate ($m)          Actual/latest ($m)
Item                           Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
Power Plant
Site preparation                10.60      -       10.60        9.15      -         9.15
Pile & Foundation                1.60      -        1.60        5.27      -         5.27
Civil Construction             31.90      6.40     38.30       51.17      3.98     55.15
Boiler                          17.60    66.10     83.70       15.83     66.27     82.10
Turbine - Generator             7.20     69.30     76.50        5.49     76.67     82.16
Coal Conveying System           4.20       -        4.20        4.55      -         4.55
Oil System                      0.10       -        0.10        0.08      -         0.08
Ash Disposal System             3.90      4.40      8.30        6.25      4.11     10.36
Water Treatment System          4.40      0.80      5.20        1.45      0.39      1.84
Water Supply System             3.50       -        3.50        4.86      -         4.86
Electrical Equipment            13.90     4.90     18.80       14.27      4.63     18.90
220 kV Switchgear               0.40      0.60      1.00        0.96      0.51      1.47
Instrument & Control System     2.20     10.30     12.50        4.80     14.99     19.79
Construction Equipment           -        3.50      3.50        0.12      3.55      3.67
Environmental Protection        0.20      0.10      0.30        2.78      0.28      3.07
Simulator                        -         -         -          0.22      1.48      1.70
Transportation Facilities        -         -         -          9.16      -         9.16
Production Support               -         -         -          5.91      -         5.91
Training                         1.30      1.00     2.30        1.43      0.93      2.36
Tariff Study                    0.50                0.50        0.09      0.10      0.18
Engineering & Constr. Managem.    17.00    1.20    18.20       23.51      0.95     24.46
Associated Transmission        26.10       -       26.10       58.93      -        58.93
Total Base Cost            146.60    168.60    315.20             -              -
Contingencies
Physical contingency            14.60     8.40     23.00
Price contingency               13.80     3.00      16.80       -         -         -
Total Project Cost          175.00    180.00    355.00     226.25    178.85    405.10
Interest during construction
IBRD loan                      -        48.10     48.10        -       32.05     32.05
Local loans                   56.50      -        56.50      38.61       -       38.61
Total Financing Required   231.50    228.10    459.60      264.86    210.90    475.76
Note: $1 = Y 5.38 for appraisal. Actual cost is based on compound average exchange rate of $1 = Y 7.55



- 20 -
Table 8A - 2: PROJECT COSTS IN MILLION RMB
Appraisal (Y million)         Actuallatest (Y million)
Item                           Local   Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Power Plant
Site preparation               57.03      -       57.03        69.06      -       69.06
Pile & Foundation               8.61      -         8.61       39.80      -        39.80
Civil Construction            171.62     34.43    206.05      386.33     30.03    416.36
Boiler                         94.69    355.62    450.31      119.50    500.34    619.84
Turbine - Generator            38.74    372.83    411.57       41.42    578.86    620.28
Coal Conveying System          22.60      -        22.60       34.36      -       34.36
Oil System                      0.54      -        0.54         0.59      -        0.59
Ash Disposal System            20.98     23.67    44.65        47.54     31.03     78.57
Water Treatment System         23.67      4.30    27.98        10.95      2.95     13.90
Water Supply System            18.83      -        18.83       36.70      -        36.70
Electrical Equipment           74.78     26.36    101.14      107.73     34.96    142.69
220 kV Switchgear               2.15      3.23     5.38         7.21      3.85     11.06
Instrument& Control System     11.84     55.41     67.25       36.23    113.18    149.41
Construction Equipment                   18.83     18.83        0.91     26.80    27.71
EnvironmentalProtection         1.08      0.54      1.61       21.00      2.14     23.14
Simulator                       -         -         -           1.62     11.22     12.84
Transportation Facilities       -         -         -          69.16      -       69.16
Production Support              -         -         -          44.58      -        44.58
Training                        6.99      5.38     12.37       10.79      7.02     17.81
Tariff Study                    2.69      -         2.69        0.65      0.72      1.37
Engineering & Constr. Managem.   91.46    6.46     97.92      177.47      7.20    184.67
Associated Transmission       140.42      -       140.42      444.93      -      444.93
Total Base Cost           788.71    907.07   1,695.78       -         -         -
Contingencies
Physical contingency           78.55     45.19    123.74
Price contingency              74.24     16.14     90.38        -         -         -
Total Project Cost        941.50    968.40   1,909.90     1,708.53  1,350.29  3,058.82
Interest during construction    -         -         -           -         -         -
IBRD loan                      -      258.78    258.78         -      241.95    241.95
Local loans                  303.97      -      303.97      291.49       -      291.49
Total Financing Required    1,245.47  1,227.18  2,472.65  2,000.02  1,592.24  3,592.26
Note: $1 = Y 5.38 for appraisal. Actual cost is based on compound average exchange rate of $1 = Y 7.55



- 21 -
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Aptaisal e51imate (s mfllion)      Actallatest (s million)
Itan                               Loca      Foreign    TOtal       Local     Foreign    Total
IBRD                                -         180.00    180.00        -        178.85    178.85
HenanProvitialGovmmiat             115.75      -        115.75      135.11 /a    -       135.11
People's Cons,tuction Bank ofChina  115.75    48.10     163.85       28.87 /a    -        28.87
State Develoqmnt Bank                -         -          -         124.75 Ia    -       124.75
HPEPB                                -         -          -           8.17       -         8.17
Total                            231.50    22810      459.60      296.90     178.85    475.75
/a including IDC of $32.05 million for IBRD loan
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appraisal Estimate              Ex-post Estimate
Internal Economic rate                 15.7 percent                    13.8 percent
of return (1ERR)
Assumptions
Price base                           end - 1991                      end - 1996
Investment Cost                      Total: Y 2,216 million          Total: Y 3,281 million /a
Fuel Cost                            Y 110/ton standard coal         Y 270/ton standard coal
Fuel Consumption                     325 gce/kWh                     348 gce/ kWh  /b
Annual generation                    3,900 GWh                       3,300 GWh  /b
6,500 hours at 300 MW per unit  5,893 hours at 280 MW per unit
Losses                               Plant use and T&D losses:   Plant use:
12.0 percent of gross          6.5percent of gross
generation                     generation
Price                                increasing from 18.1            32.9 fen/kWh (price
fen/kWh in 1996 to 19.0        Yanshi was paid in 1996;
from 2000 onward (average  excluding VAT)
retail price excl. VAT)
O&M  costs                           1.37 fen/kWh                    2.81 fen/kWh  /c
/a Excluding Y 417 million of transmission and distribution investment costs which were used to
strengthen the T&D system but not required for the connection of the plant to the grid.
/b From 1998 onward. Actual figures used for 1996 and 1997.
/c From 1999 onward.



- 22 -
Table 9, ATTACHMENT I: EX - POST COST - BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF YANSHI THERMAL
POWER PROJECT (LN. 3433 - CHA)
Year  Investnent Cost O&M Cost Fuel Cost        Generation    Sale       Benefit        Net
(Y million)   (Y million) (Y million)     GWh       GWh       (Revenues)     Benefit
(Y million)   (Y million)
96          96         96                                     96            96
1991      42.88          -            -                       -             -          (42.88)
1992     478.69          -            -                       -             -         (478.69)
1993     750.77          -            -                       -             -         (750.77)
1994    1,106.96         -            -                       -             -       (1,106.96)
1995     586.06          -          35.52           311      291          95.69       (525.89)
1996     302.92        47.35       147.71          1,229    1,149        378.25       (119.73)
1997       10.73       68.55       295.66         2,815     2,632         866.10      491.16
1998       1.90        85.58       310.27          3,300    3,086       1,015.34      617.60
1999        -          98.43       310.27          3,300    3,086       1,015.34      606.65
2000 - 21      -          98.43       310.27          3,300    3,086       1,015.34       606.65
IERR      13.8 percent
Investment costs are net of transfer payments (taxes, subsidies, interests). Shadow pricing was not applied in ex -
-post analysis. Recent data show that few cost items are subject to shadow pricing and those which are only
constitute a very small portion of total costs. In the recent project proposals "Hunan Power Development Project"
and "East China (Jiangsu) Transmission Project", shadow pricing resulted in economic costs which were only
1.7 percent and 1.9 percent respectively higher than financial costs.
Actual foreign investment costs were converted into 1996 prices by MUV indexes. Corresponding conversion
factors for local investment costs: 1991-1.937,  1992-1.813,  1993--l.462,--1994--1.224,--1995-1.065,
thereafter 1.00.
The coal price of 270 Y per ton of standard coal (7,000 kcal/kg) reflects the long - run marginal costs of coal.
See "BERI, Economic Analysis for Leiyang Coal- -fired Power Plant (II), June 1997, Appendix C" and "Price
Waterhouse, Hunan Electnc Power Company Institutional Strengthening Study, August 1996, Section 5" for
recent estimates of the LRMCs of coal. Calorific value of coal used in Yanshi power plant has been estimated at
4,350 kcal/kg.



- 23 -
TABLE 9: ATTACHMENT II: RISK ANALYSES
1000 scenarios were examined to determine the range into which the IERR is likely to fall.
That was done by identifying critical variables and then defining probability distributions
over the range of values of each variable. The critical variables and the probability
distributions are shown below.
Variable                      Distribution   Distribution Parameters
Hours fed into the grid       Triangular    Minimum 5,000 hours
Maximum 7,000 hours
Highest density about 5,900 hours
Average output level          Normal        Minimum 260 MW per unit
Maximum 300 MW per unit
Bulk sale tariff (excl. VAT)  Uniform       Minimum 29.6 fen/kWh
Maximum 36.2 fen/kWh
Economic costs of coal        Uniform       Minimum 240 Y/ton
Maximum 300 Y/ton
For the years from 1998 onward, a certain scenario was obtained by drawing a value of
each variable at random from the associated distribution. The annual output (hours fed
into the grid times average output level) was subject to the constraint that it does not fall
below 3,000 GWh.
The heat rate has been calculated as: design heat rate (325gce/kWh) times rated output
(3000MW) divided by average output level.
The results of 1000 Monte Carlo runs are: Average value of the IERR 13.6 percent.
Minimum 9.7 percent. Maximum 17.6 percent. The probability that the IERR is less than
the social discount rate of 12 percent is 15.5 percent.



- 24 -
TABLE 9: ATTACHMENT II (Cont'd)
Risk Analysis Results
__ _ ___   IERR
Expected value                                    13.56%
Standard deviation                                 1.49%
Minimum                                            9. 74%/e
Maximum                                           17.59%
Coefficient of variation                             0.11
Probability of negative outcome                     0.0%
Frequency Distribution of IERR
0.14-
0.12
F0.08                I
0 006        i           _____ I_
0.02-
0   
o   n  o   i   0   in  0  in 0      n 0     in 0     in  0   In  0   n  1   n  i
.  .            - .               .                     4 CD    _ _-  .  0
Cumulative Probabilitv of IERR
100%
80%   -         _                                                           /
e40%              I _        _        _                        i   /      __I
20%                    1                j          -                  _        _ _ _
0% 1  1     1        i       I       _      /  j         j_   __           I
0%
0.00%    2.00%    4.00%    6.00%    8.00%    10.00%   12.00%   14,00%   16.00%   18.00%



- 25 -
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agree -    Section     Cove -   Present    Orginal      Revised              Description of covenant            Conmments
ment                   nant    status   fulfilknent    fulsfillnent
type                date          date
Loan      3.01(b)        13        C                                 Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the
Aeicle m                                                  Loan to HPEPB under a subsidiary loan
agement. Terns and conditions need Bank
appoval.
4.01(bXii)     1        C                                 Borrower willfurnish to the Bank not later
Article IV                                                than 6 monfts after the end of each fiscal
year the auditor's repoft
Sched. 4       5        C                                 Borrower and HPEPB shall employ consul-
Section II                                                tants satisfactory to the Bank
Project    2.06          10       CP                                 HPEPB shall carry out the training in    Only training on
Article n1                                                accordance with a program acceptable to the   environn.
Bank                                     protection still
outstanding
Scheduled for
1998.
2.07          10       CP                                 HPEPB shall canyouttariffstudy,design     hnplementation
Article II                                                an action plan and implement the plan.   behind schedule
of project
appraisal
3.04           6        C                                 HPEPB shall implement an environmental
Article 11                                                monitoring program satisfactory to the Bank.
4.01(b)       2,1       C                                 HPEPB shall furnish audited financial    Financial
Article IV                                                statements and auditor's report within 6  statements are
months after the end of each fiscal year.  not fully in line
with itetmat
accounting
standards.
4.02 (a)       2       CP                                 HPEPB shall take all measures (including  non - compliance
ArticleIV                                                 adjustments of the levels and structure of its   in 1994.
tariffs as detemiined by the Borrower) as  Ownership
shall be required to produce, for each of its  changes should
fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on  be reflected in
December 31, 1991 net operating income   financial
equivalert to not less than (i) 20percent of its  statements when
average annual investment program for the    it is clarified.
years 1992 - 94, (ii) 25percent for thereafter.
4.03 (a)       2        CP                                HPEPB shall not incur any debt unless a  Same comment
Article IV                                                reasonable forecast of the revenues and  as above (non -
expenditures shows that the projected internal  compliance in
cash generation for each fiscal year during  1995).
the term ofthe debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.3 times the estimated debt service
requirements of IIPEPB in such year.
4.04           2       CP                                 By April 30 of each year, commencing April
Article IV                                                30, 1993, HPEPB shall prepare and furmish a
rolling long - term financal plan containing
projected income staements, sources and
applications of funds, and balance sheets for
each of the next eight fiscal yeass.



- 26 -
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OD 4.01 Environmental Assessment        Complied but air quality standards were
sometimes exceeded. This was not due to
emissions of the power plant but caused by
already existing high background levels.
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned            Revised            Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    $'000   Weeks       $'000    Weeks    $'000
Preparation to appraisal                                         42.0      79.2
Appraisal                                                        39.6      81.7
Negotiations through                                             77.2    179.4
Board approval
Supervision La                                                   32.5     80.1
Completion /a                                                     5.7      15.0
Total                                                        197.0    435.4
/a Figures for FY 1998 have been estimated



- 27 -
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Specialized    Imple -      Develop-     Conuments / Type
Stage of                   Month/      No. of     Days       staff skills  mentation      ment              of
project cycle               year       persons   in field   represented /a   status     objectives       problems
Through Appraisal
08/87        1         5           EN                                      Assessment of
Environmental
Impacts
12/87        3         5        E, EC, FA
09/88        3         21       E, EC, FA                                    Appraisal
09/91        7         10       E, E, E, EC,                               Post Appraisal
EC, FA, EN
11/91        1         2           EC                                    Review of Henan
Tariff Study
Appraisal through Board
approval
Board approval through
effectiveness
Supervision        1        06/92        1          2           E              I
2       04/94         1         3            E             1
3       11/94         3         1       E, EC, C(FA)       I
4       05/95         1         2            E             I
5       03/96        3          3         E, EC, L         1
6       04/97         2         4           E, E           I
Completion                  07/97        1          3           EC             1
/a E: Engineer, FA: Financial Analyst, EC: Economist, L: RMC Staff, EN: Environmental Specialist, C(FA): Consultant (Financial
Analyst)



Table 1: INCOME STATEMENT
(Yuan Million)
Year ended December31              1991                  1992                 1993                 1994                 1996               1996
Piojuclod  Actual    Projoclod  Actual    Piujocted  Aclual    Projecled  Actual    Prolected  Actual    Projocted  Actual
Energy Sales (GWh)           25.152   25.707      27.017   28,439      28,961   30.644       31,090   33,031     33,638   36,924      37.173   39.732
Heat Sales (GJ)                        11.581               11.730               12,316               12.637               10.930               9.810
Aveloge Sales Price
- Eleciricity (lonlkWh)       13.50    11.89        15.38    13.83       17.23    17.87       19.01    18.53       21.00    20.65       22.46    23.95
- Heal (fen/kJ)                          0.41                 0.47                 0.49                 0.86                 0.81                 0.90
Sales Tax                       747      388         798      439         784      640         869       57         940       64         935       62          >      .~
Net OperatIng Revenues        2,649    2,738       3.357    3,676        4,206    4,943       6.041    6,171       6.124    7,664       7,414    9,679         H -
Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                        0 
- Fuel                          1095     974         1287    1.189        1560    1.639        1722    1.735        1964   1.968         2414    1,813
-Purchased Powor                231      428          251     695          280     641          277   1.183          282   2,414          268   4,243          Z      ^
- O&M                           454      389          548     490          654     815          765   1,033          892    1.300        1052   1.379          H      H0
*Adrnin.& Sales                  126     179          148     258          170     413          193     598          219     445          248     485
Depreciation                   301      342          357     392          424     577          492     822          589     836          719   1.012          0      t:
Total Operating Costs         2,207    2,312        2,691    3.024       3,088    4,086       3,449    6.371       3,946    6,963       4,701    8,932
Net Operating Income            442      426         766      662        1,118     8568       1,692     800        2,178     701        2,713     647
Other Income                               2                    3                   29                    5                   32                   65
Other Expenses                            30                   35                   31                                         1                   27
Financial Charges                 42                  136                  195     126          256     270          333     222          470     135
Income Before Tax               400      398         630      620         923      730        1,336     635        1,846     610       2,243      660
Income Tax                       125      66          231     100          313      79          575     176          649     166          848     181
Net Income                      275      332         399      420         610      661         761      369        1,196     344        1,396     36S
Comment: Ilems with no entries in Ihe column Projected or 'Aclual are not shlowii in project appraisal (Projected)
or could not be inerfreod ftron the slatemneils (Actual).



Table 2: BALANCE SHEET
(Yuan Million)
Yoar endod December 31             1991                  1992                 1993                 1994                 1995               1996
Projected  Actiual   Projectod  Acttial   Projecled  Actiual    Projected  Actual    Projected  Aclual    Projected  Actual
Curront Assets
-Casht                          313      468         314      600         294      804         348      989         351    1,305         408    1.219
-Accounis Receivablo            359      221         422      257         490      144         566      214         661      253         766      474
- Inventories                   254      271         303      336         364      427         408      385         478      265         587      346
-Other Accounts Receivablo               481                  624                  964                 1.172                1,434                3,520
Total Current Assets            927    1,441        1.038    1,817       1,148    2,339       1,322    2,769       1,490    3,268       1,761    6,669
Long-Term Investmenits                    29                   27                   30                  342                  388                  663
fixed Assels
-Plant in Service             7,186    6,700        8.835    8,188      10,394   12.295      12,118   13,269      15,078   17,352      18.437   17,662
-Accumulated Depreciation     1,931    1.968        2,288    2,361       2.712    4.227       3.204    4,913       3.792    5,5SO       4.511    5,113
Net Plant in Service          5.255    4,732        6,547    5,827       7,682    8,068       8,915    8,356      11.286   11,801      13,926   12,549
Work in Progress                577      609         339      522        1,089    1.038       2,060    3.736       2,080    5,624       2,226    3.277
Total Fixed Assets            5,831    6,341        6,886    6,349       8,771    9,106      10,976   12,091      13,366   17,426      16,161   16,826
Deferred Assels                           58                  188                  276                  317                  330                  770
Special Fund Assols             346                  369                  371                  380                  363                  367
Total Assets                  7,104    6,869        8,293    8,381      10,290   11,761      12,677   16,610      16,219   21,402      18,279   22,817
Current Liabilities
-Accounts Payable               133      102         152      102         172      387         191      314         215      668         246    1,139
- Tax Payable                   184      244         190      155         196      134         202       86         208      180         214      249
- Olher Payable                          510                  792                  843                 1,367                 889                 1,445
- Short-Term Loan                         92                   95                  163                  108                  205                  795
Total Current Liabilities       317      948         342    1,144         368    1.627         393    1,876         422    1,942         460    3,629
Long-Term Debt                2,952    2,197       3,834    3,144       5,359    3,306        7,248    6,165      8,959   10,465       11,062    9,926
Spocial Funds and olhur         635                  771                  907                 1,119                1,373                1,712
Total LlabilitIes             3,905    3,145       4,946    4,280       6,633    4,033        8,760    8,040     10,755   12,408       13,234   13,666
Equity
- Paid-in Capital             3,199    2,915       3,347    2,929        3,657    2.931       3,918    4,861       4,464    4,841       5,045    4,286
- Rutainod Euaintis                      b09                 t1.62                1.794                 245                  752                 1,067
- Capital Surplus                                                                 2,193                2,364                3,401                3,909
Total Equity                  3,199    3,724       3,347    4,091        3,657    6,918       3,918    7,470      4,464    8,994       6,046    9,263
Total Equity & Liabilities    7,104    8,869       8,293    8,379       10,290   11,761      12,677   16,610     16,219   21,402      18,279   22,817
Comntmont: Itoms wilh no enlrles In tIho column 'Piolucludl or Actual' are not shrowrn In project uppralsal (Projected)
or could not be inlerrod from Iho slatemonts (Actual).a



Table 3: FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Yuan Mililon)
Year ended December31                1991                 1992                  1993                  1994                 1995                 1996
Projected  Actual    Projected  Actual     Projected  Actual     Projected  Actual    Projected  Actual     Projected  Actual
Intemal Sources
-Net Income                      275      332          399      420         610       651         761      359        1,196      344        1,395      369
* Depreciation                   301      342          357      392         424       577         492      822          589      836         719    1,012
* Special Funds                  171                   l98                  240                   280        5          324        8         399        20
Total Internal Sources           747      674          955      812        1,274    1,228        1.533    1,186       2.109    1.188        2.513    1.402
Borrowings                     1,072      451        1.127    1.344        1.990      852       2.384    3.061        2.572    5,476        3.119      351
Equity                                      6                    14                   235                  683                  1.524                  269
Total Sources of Funds         1,819    1,131        2.082    2,170        3,265    2,315       3.917    4,930        4,681    8,188        5,631    2,022
Capital Expenditures            1,330     753        1.414    1,529        2,333    1.464       2,749    3,672        3.048    5.971        3.577   (2,037)
Change In Long-Term Investm.                                      (2)                   3                  317                    53                   295                   0
Interest Charged of Operation     35                    24                   25                                          65                    29
Loan Repayment                   164      332          244      397         441       690         441      732          793    1,176          944      891
Remittances to Government         34       55           93       68         138        20         286       27          326       27         438        27
Change in Working Capital         81      (132)         86       47          103      (68)         95      (327)        135      431          177      615
Special FundAsselslExpend.       205                   220                  244                   293      324          313      212         412    2,317
Total Appllcat. of Funds        1.850    1,008       2,081     2,039       3,285    2,111        3.863    4,745       4,681    7.870        5,576    2,108
Net Change in Cash               (31)     123            1      131          (20)     204          54       185           0      318           55      (86)
Comment: Items with no entries In the column 'Projected' or "Actual" are not shown in project appraisal (Projected)
or could not be interred from the statements (Actual).
i-.



Table 4: Key Financial Indicators
(Yuan  million  unless  otherwise  noted)
1991                 1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                1996
Pioloctod  Actual    Piujoctod  Aclual    Projocled  Actual     Prolectod  Actual    Projocted  Actual     Projocted  Aclual
Electricity Salos (GWtI)      25.152   25.707      27,017   28.439       28,961   30.644      31.090   33.031      33.638   36,924      37.173   39,732
Average Price (fen/kWh)        13.50    11.89       15.38    13.83        17.23    17.87       19.01    18.53       21.00    20.65        22.46    23.95
Oper. Rev. trom Elec. Sales    3,396    3,057       4.155    3.933        4,990    5,476       5,910    6,121       7,064    7,624        8,349    9.516
Operating Cosis                2,954    2,312       3,389    3,024        3,871    4.085       4,317    5,371       4,885    6.963        5,636    8,932
Operaling Income                442       426         766      552        1,119     858        1,593      800       2,179      701        2.713      647
Income alter Tax                275      332          399      420         611      651         762       359       1,199      344        1,396      369
Rate Base                      4,877    4.563       5,901    5,280        7,114    6,948       8,298    8,212      10,101   10,079       12,606   12,175
RoR on Rale Base (%)             5.6      7.3         6.8       8.0        8.6       9.4         9.2      4.4        11.9      3.4         11.1      3.0
Operating Ratio (%)             87.0     84.4        81.6      84.6        77.6     82.6        73.0     87.0        69.1      90.9        67.5     93.2
Currenl Ratio (times)            2.9      1.5         3.0       1.4        3.1       1.3         3.4      1.3         3.5       1.6         3.8      1.5
Debt-Service Cov. (times)        2.6      2.0         2.2       2.0         1.9      1.7         2.2      1.4         1.8       1.0         1.8      1.6
Self-FInancIng Ratio (%)        24.5     41.1        22.4      24.3        22.2     26.5        24.0     16.8        25.7      27.6        25.0    32.91
Comment: covenants required Ithal the debl-service ratio is at loast 1.3 artd that Ire sull-fminaicirg ratio doos not fall below 20% In tho years 1992 - 1994
and not below 25% Itleroatter,
1): Estimato



-32-                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: AIDE - MEMOIRE OF SUPERVISION MISSION (EXTRACT)
(MARCH, 31 - APRIL 3,1997)
General
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs./Mme. S. Kataoka and J. Wu visited
Zhengzhou during March 31 - April 3, 1997 to review the status of project execution, use
of loan proceeds, implementation of the tariff action plan, training program and
environmental monitoring, resettlement, and the financial performance of Electric Power
of Henan (EPH), and compliance with Loan and Project Agreement covenants, and
preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission would like to
express its appreciation to EPH for the excellent arrangements for the discussions, and for
the warm hospitality and cooperation extended during its stay. This Aide Memoire
summarizes the principal matters discussed and understandings as well as agreements
reached.
Implementation Overview
2.    EPH successfully completed the construction of two 300 MW units. Unit #3 has
been in commercial operation since April 18, 1996, which is 109 days behind the SAR
schedule, and Unit #4 on September 14, 1996 which is 109 days ahead the SAR schedule.
As of December 31, 1996, Unit #3 generated 717.8 GWh ( average load of 221.2 MW,
coal consumption of 454 g/kWh including auxiliary use) and Unit #4 generated
511.6 GWh (average load of 253 MW, coal consumption of 441g/kWh).
3.    EPH has been facing problems of coal quality. Coal is supplied from local mine
Yima and two local mines in Xinan and Dengfeng area. In 1996, quality of coal supplied
to the units was slightly improved, when compared with the coal quality supplied in 1995.
Average calorific value of coal was 16,655 kj/kg (3,983 kcal/kg) against design coal of
17791 kj/kg (4,250 kcal/kg). Average ash content was 32 percent against design value of
24.2 percent. Sulfur content was 1.03--1.33 percent against design value of below
1.0 percent. The current maximum capacity which the units can produce is 270--280 MW.
This is mainly caused by the coal quality lower than designed. EPH expects to get better
quality coal to be supplied from Xinan area in the near future.
4.    220 kV transmission lines of 374 km have been completed, which is 24 km longer
than that of appraisal estimate. 110 kV transmission lines of 40 km have been completed,
which is additional one and not included in appraisal estimates. Two (2) new substations
have been built and the capacity of their main transformers is 120 MVA respectively. The
extension of four (4) substations have been completed, of which, the capacity of three (3)
main transformers is 120 MVA respectively, one (1) is 150 MVA. The total added
transformation capacity amount to 750 MVA (which is 150 MVA greater than that of the



-33 -                     ANNEX2
appraisal value). All of the above transmission lines and substations were completed and
put into service before December 31, 1996.
Ex - Post Review of Procurement
5.    The mission reviewed the contracts subject to post review. There are three items
which were procured through limited international bidding procedure, under which the
firm quoted the lowest price was awarded the contract. Details are given below; costs are
in US$.
ZELEX          American Thermal      China Automatic
Electronics                           Control Co.
Water Treatment System   206,118.00     no response to call   180,590.00
for bids
EnvironmentVehicle     314,130.00       284, 274.47           301,594.21
Chemical Instrument    206,718.00       293,348.10           254,193.00
6.    It was found that the contract value of environment vehicle exceeds the threshold
of $200,000 for other procurement procedures. EPH explained that the budget price for
environment vehicle was $100,000 for foreign currency and $150,000 for local currency.
However, during the execution of procurement, EPH decided to purchase all the
components abroad for the compatibility of the instrument and maintenance consideration.
The mission stated that EPH should have notified the Bank regarding the change of the
procurement scope and that this type of mistake should not be repeated in future
procurement activities, even though EPH had valid reasons to change the contract scope
of the environment vehicle.
Tariff Reform Implementation
7.    In 1995, EPH undertook to update the 1993 tariff study with the assistance of
foreign consultants. Following the study recommendations, EPH submitted to the
provincial government a tariff reform implementation plan. The plan was approved in
January 1996, which sets out (i) the target consumer (retail) tariffs which are Long Range
Marginal Cost (LRMC) based and ensuring the financial sustainability of the supply
utilities, (ii) a phased implementation strategy, and (iii) detailed measures for
implementation and monitoring. In executing the plan, EPH has made the following
progress:
The average sales tariff level including VAT has increased by 16.0 percent
(note: the inflation rate in 1996 is 6.5 percent) from Fen 24.1/kWh in 1995 to
Fen 28.0/kWh in 1996, in which, agricultural tariff by 20.78 percent, residential
tariff by 16.62 percent, a clear indication of reduced subsidies to these



- 34 -                    ANNEX2
traditionally heavily subsidized sectors. In addition, the capacity charge which
mainly applies to industrial customers has increased from Y 13.5/kW month in
1996 to Y 16.5/kW month in 1997.
*    With a target to achieve unified consumer tariffs in the whole province in 1998,
EPH extended the implementation of unified consumer tariff to five more
prefectures, i.e., Xinxiang, Anyang, Kaifeng, Nanyang, and Pindingshan.
*    Since January 1996, time - of - day tariffs have applied to the whole province,
except residential, poverty counties and irrigation users. At the same time, a
strict monitoring plan has been carried out to monitor the effectiveness of the
time-of-day tariff. A 3--5 percent increase of load factor has been reported in
some prefectures as a result of the time-of-day tariff. For 1997, EPH has a plan
to modify the time period of peak and off-peak for amore effective peak
shaving.
8.    The mission considered that despite the delays experienced in the earlier stage in
implementing the Tariff Action Plan, the progress achieved in 1995 and 1996 is
satisfactory and generally meets the requirement of the Project Agreement. The mission is
confident that full implementation of the target tariffs will be achieved under the Qinbei
project given the approved plan and the momentum of pricing reform gathered so far in
the province.
Financial Aspects
9.    EPH informed the mission (a) that the central government decided in 1995 that in
any new power generating plant, if SDB holds more than 50 percent of equity, Central
China Electric Power Group Corporation (CCEPGC) will represent the ownership of the
central government. Therefore, the financial statements of EPH would be reconstructed in
accordance with the newly defined/clarified ownership assets and (b) that a number of
generation projects included in the EPH's development plan will become IPP projects and
will therefore be excluded from the EPH's financial statements. As a result of the above
two factors, the amount of annual average investment will be much lower than the
currently projected level.
Training
10.   Following the recommendations of the previous supervision mission regarding the
implementation of the remaining training items: environment protection and training of
teachers, EPH submitted a request to MOEP. However, the request was not approved.
Under this circumstance, EPH made decision to finance the training of teachers off its own
balance sheet. A total of six persons have received 2 weeks training in Germany on
organization, curriculum, and laboratory facilities of vocational education. The mission
commenced EPH's strong sense of ownership in carrying out the agreed training plan to
meet the Project Agreement.



- 35 -                    ANNEX2
11.   Regarding the implementation of training on environment protection, EPH has
already contacted a German power utility. A total of DM 70,000 was quoted by the
German utility for training of four persons for 3 weeks. EPH will contact the relevant
authorities again for approval.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
12.   The project was an extension project to the existing Yanshi plant for which no
human resettlement was required. For the transmission lines, routing was designed to
avoid resettlements. Dismantling of existing facilities and buildings for (a) existing 10 kV
line (compensation cost of Y 320,000); (b) 7 farm irrigation wells (Y 272,500); (c)
40 temporary houses (800 sq. meter, compensation of Y 60,000; (d) 15 non--residential
houses (200 sq. meter, Y 28,500; (e) 8 cave dwelling (Y 20,000); (f) a press house within
the plant (Y 15,000); and others (Y 169,000). Total compensation of Y 885,000 (against
the SAR estimate of Y 860,800) based on local regulations were paid.
13.   For land acquisition for transmission towers of about 77.3 mu (SAR estimate of
5.2 ha), Y 2.32 million (Y 2000/mu/year x 15 years) was compensated. For corridor
alongside lines, Y 7.19 million was compensated. Total amount of the land acquisition is
Y 9.51 million against the SAR estimate of Y 5.09 million.
Environmental Aspects
14.   The environmental monitoring report for water quality and noises measured in
1996 was presented to the mission. It was found that the monitoring results did not exceed
the relevant standards, although defluorination in ash yard, ambient noise values
occasionally exceeded the requirements. It was noted that the air quality monitoring after
the completion of the two units has not been carried out, because of a technical problem
with the power supply system for the environment monitoring instruments mounted in the
vehicle which was procured for the project. The mission recommended and EPH agreed
that the air quality will be monitored by end - June 1997 and the monitoring report will be
submitted to the Bank by August 1997. Environmental monitoring records before and
after completion of the two 300 MW units are to be evaluated.
(Note: During the previous mission in March 1996, it was noted that the TSP background
level always exceeded the Chinese standard and S02 background level exceeded
occasionally the Chinese standard, 50 percent probability in time. Although this is
considered that there is no direct relation of the project, the final report on environmental
impacts of the project should include a detailed description of the current status and
envisaged measures to improve the situation).
15.   Replacement work of the existing dust collector for the Unit #1 with the new ESP
was carried out in December 1996. The efficiency of the new ESP for the Unit #1 was
99.6 percent against a design value of 99.3 percent. The new ESP for the Unit #2 will be



- 36 -                    ANNEX2
erected in the second semester of 1997. The efficiency of the ESP of Unit #4 was
99.8 percent against a design value of 99.3 percent. The Bank recommended and EPH
agreed that performance test for the ESP of Unit #3 will be conducted in July 1997 and
the result will be reported to the Bank in August 1997.
Preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
16.  In connection with preparation of ICR, EPH submitted to the mission the
actual/latest estimated project implementation schedule, project cost estimates, evaluation
of the consulting services provided, and key lessons learnt (all in Chinese). The
documentation was well prepared and provided a detailed account of the project
implementation to date. The mission held two special sessions with EPH to review and
discuss the information provided. One session was focused on the key lessons learnt and
the other on project cost estimates and complementary analyses required in order to assist
the Bank in preparation of ICR.
17.   It was agreed that the following complementary tasks would be carried out by
EPH to finalize its own evaluation report and to assist the Bank in preparation of ICR.
*    EPH's own evaluation report of the project's execution and implementation,
which will be submitted to the Bank by the end of April, 1997;
*    Analysis of the causes of cost overrun of transmission component, which
will be submitted to the Bank by April 20, 1997;
.*   Environment monitoring summer test report, which will be submitted by the
end of August, 1997.
18.   The Bank will send he draft ICR to EPH for review and comments by the end of
September, 1997. The ICR will be completed and issued by the end of the year 1977.
Key Lessons
19.   During installation of the electrical and mechanical equipment, an excessive
amount of coordination work had to be carried out by the owner due to the interfacing
problems between different islands, which was a heavy burden to the owner and caused
delays which could otherwise be avoided. It is therefore suggested that interfacing be
reduced to a manageable level through careful procurement packaging.
20.   The design and procurement of each fire fighting system was linked with the
concerned island only. There was not design coordination among these individual systems.
This caused difficulties in commissioning the entire power plant. It is suggested that the
fire fighting system of the entire power plant be a separate package given its importance in
plant operation safety.



- 37 -                    ANNEX2
21.   The devaluation of the US dollar against European and Japanese currencies
resulted in EPH's loss of $7 million. Measures to avoid or minimize risks related to
foreign currency movements should be sought. It is also suggested that price contingency
include exchange rates variation among foreign currencies.
22    The design and procurement of auxiliary equipment were overlooked, while all the
attention was given to the major equipment. During the commissioning of Unit #3, the
poor quality of the heat damper of the coal mill caused a delay of more than 30 days. Even
after the replacement, the problem still exists. It is suggested that much greater attention
be given to the design and procurement of auxiliary equipment.
23.   Coal quality has been a major problem to the performance and safe operation of
Unit #3 and #4. There is a considerable difference in quality between the design coal and
the actual coal used. The actual coal used so far features a lower heat value and higher ash
content, which produces excessive slag and therefore increase the load of the slag scraper
conveyer. This is largely responsible for the fact that the units cannot reach the rated
output during normal operation. It is suggested that the range of the property values of the
design coal and check coal be increased.



-38 -                              ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    The 2x300 MW units for Shouyangshan Thermal Power Plant Phase II Project
experienced 49 months in total from the Loan Agreement signing by the World Bank to
the completion of both units and the turnover to trial production (February 7, 1992 to
March 14, 1996, in compliance with the World Bank Milestone Schedule and some items
ahead of it). The completion of both units strengthened the power generation capacity of
Henan Provincial Power Grid and alleviated the serious power demand of the system.
2.    The whole construction of the project was in compliance with the progress
schedule and some items in advance by the common efforts from all the aspects of
designers, constructors, and equipment suppliers, the great support from authorities
involved, and the great concerns from the World Bank. As a result, both units could be
put into normal production and obtain benefit ahead of schedule.
3.    The procurement of the equipment purchased by the World Bank loan was strictly
carried out in line with the Procurement Guideline of the World Bank and International
Competitive Bidding. The procured equipment was of good technical performance,
reliable quality and reasonable price. There was no conflict during the smooth
implementation of the contract. The major components of the contract have been
completed at current. The clearance of the quality guarantee and partial technical service
charge is underway now. The contract cost is ensured within the total project budget at
the World Bank appraisal, and without overrun.
4.    The technical service of each contractor has been implemented in conformity with
the contract covenants. The time of some technical service have been extended due to the
construction arrangement at jobsite, which was agreed by both owner and contractors.
Hence, there is no construction delay caused by the technical service of those jobsite
engineers. The Extension Department has made every effort to provide comfortable
facilities for technical service engineers' living and working and to meet their reasonable
requirements in the light of contract covenants. Most jobsite engineers were satisfied with
their working conditions and felt at ease to stay at jobsite, which contributed great
motivation to the smooth progress of the project.
5.    According to the requirement of SAR, the training program has been carried out
for the backbone staff from the major departments and divisions of EPH and the directors
of the major power plants and bureaus under EPH's direct management on management,
capital construction, power sale, financial affairs, planning, and environmental protection,
which broadened their field of vision, introduced some advanced management experience
of the world, and contributed greatly to the development of the power industry in Hena
Province.
6.    S&L Co. was selected as the foreign consulting company; China International
Engineering Consulting Co. has been selected as the major local consulting company;



- 39 -                               ANNEX 3
China Electric Power Consulting Co. and South West of China Electric Power Design
Institute were selected as the assistants of CIECC. These companies carried out consulting
service for the review of bidding document, bids evaluation, preparation of bids evaluation
report, and technical negotiation. They contributed careful and strict review and comments
so as to make the equipment meet the bidding document regarding technical performance
and price. During the project designing, they gave much assistance for the coordination for
interfacing of various islands and the review of vender's drawings. The consultants were
familiar with the international pricing standard of electric power equipment in single item
and experienced in equipment comparison for procurement especially during bids
evaluation. Therefore, it is really necessary to engage foreign consulting company.
7.    The advantage of ICB is that:  more equipment suppliers can join into the
competition; the owner can select equipment in a more broad scope; the equipment
procured can be more cheap, more suitable for users, better quality performance, and
better service after selling. However, an excessive amount of coordination work has to be
carried out by the owner due to the interfacing problems between so many different
islands.
It is suggested that:
*   reduce the number of islands as less as possible;
*   if allowable or both owner and contractors agree, one designing company
can be selected to work for both the owner and all the islands contractors to
reduce excessive coordination work caused by so many interfaces.
8.    Various up-to-date fire fighting systems have been procured for the project.
During bid invitation, these systems have been separated, designed and procured in each
island. It was difficult to procure the fire fighting system for I&C island, as a result that
the bidding for I&C island was later than the others. It also resulted in some difficulties in
the commissioning for the fire fighting system of the whole plant.
It is suggested that the fire fighting system of the entire power plant be a separate
package.
9.    During equipment procurement, some contracts have been disbursed in Jap. Yen
and DM. The devaluation of the US dollar against DM and Jap. Yen resulted in the
beneficiary's loss of more than 700 million, which was made up by equipment contingency
and project contingency. There was no application to the World Bank for supplementary
loan.
It is also suggested that the risk of exchange rates variation among foreign
currencies be given full consideration.



- 40 -                             ANNEX 3
10.   The technical performance requirements of major component and main equipment
have been concentrated during bids invitation and procurement. However, the auxiliary
equipment were overlooked. For example, during the commissioning of Unit #3, the poor
quality of the heat damper of the coal mill caused a delay of more than 30 days. Even after
the replacement, the problem still exists.



