Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3433 CHA
(Yanshi Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Dated February 7, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3433 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (HPEPB).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred eighty million dollars ($180,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
HPEPB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and HPEPB, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to HPEPB on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS HPEPB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. HPEPB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and power utility practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. HPEPB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. HPEPB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HPEPB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) HPEPB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
HPEPB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the
performance by HPEPB of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. HPEPB shall carry out the training under Part D of the Project in 
accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.07. HPEPB shall: (a) carry out the tariff study under Part E of the 
Project; (b) based on the results of such study design an action plan acceptable to 
the Bank for tariff structure improvements; and (c) implement the action plan in 
accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of HPEPB
Section 3.01. HPEPB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and power utility 
practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. HPEPB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
Page  3
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. HPEPB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. HPEPB shall take all necessary steps to implement an environmental 
monitoring program satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) HPEPB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
HPEPB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HPEPB shall from 
time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the levels and structure of its electricity tariffs as 
determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal 
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991 net
operating income equivalent to not less than (i) 20 percent of its average annual 
investment program for the years 1992-1994, and (ii) 25 percent thereafter.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating income" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income;
 
(ii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and administration;
 
(iii)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt 
(excluding interest during construction), repayment 
of loans (including 
sinking fund payments, if any), all 
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes; 
allocations to special 
funds and other cash distributions of surplus funds 
(including 
mandatory transfers to the Borrower), and any other cash outflows 
(other 
than capital expenditures) related to operations;
(iv)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
minus the sum 
of: (A) total operating expenses; and (B) financial 
obligations; and
(v)
The term "average annual investment program" means the average of: 
(A) the 
previous year's actual capital expenditure; (B) the 
current year's planned 
capital expenditure; and (C) the next 
year's projected capital expenditure.
Page  4
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank and HPEPB shall otherwise agree, HPEPB 
shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures 
of HPEPB shows that the projected internal cash generation of HPEPB for each fiscal 
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the 
estimated debt service requirements of HPEPB in such year on all its debt including 
the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of HPEPB maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or further 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of HPEPB" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, excluding receipts for 
consumer connection 
charges; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including  
administration, provision for maintenance special 
fund, and sales and 
income taxes and payments in lieu of 
such taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt excluding capitalized interest during 
construction.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by HPEPB 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and HPEPB accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
HPEPB of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or 
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results
of HPEPB.
(vii)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. By April 30 of each year, commencing April 30, 1993, HPEPB shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment, a rolling, long-term 
financial plan containing, inter alia, projected income statements, sources and 
Page  5
applications of funds, and balance sheets for each of the next eight fiscal years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HPEPB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HPEPB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For HPEPB:
Henan Provincial Electric
   Power Bureau
No. 11 South Songshan Road
Zhengzhou, Henan Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0626
46024 HEFAO CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HPEPB, or by 
HPEPB on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
HPEPB's Director or such other person or persons as HPEPB's Director shall designate 
in writing, and HPEPB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
HENAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC
   POWER BUREAU
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
