Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18049
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Lean 3219-IND)
June 23, 1998
Urban Development Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(As of January, 1990)
US$1.00 = Rpl,795
(As of July, 1997)
US$1.0 = Rp2,400
(As of March, 1998)
US$1.0 = Rp8,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPEDA                    -   Regional Government Development Planning, Board
CRBDP                      -   Citraum River Basin Development Project
CTWLP                      -   Cisadane Treatnent Water Line Project
DG                         -   Director General
DGCK                       -   Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements)
DGWRD                      -   Directorate General Water Resource Development
DKI Jakarta                -   Special Capital Region (Daerah Khusus lbukota) of Jakarta
EIRR                       -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR                       -   Financial Rate of Return
GO]                  .         Government of Indonesia
IUDIP                      -   Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
JABOTABEK                  -   Jakarta Metropolitan Region
JSSP                       -   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project
JUPCO                      -   Project Coordinating Unit in DKI Jakarta. BAPPEDA
.lWRMS                     -   Jabotabek Water Resource Management Study
KIP                        -   Urban Neighborhood (Kampung) Improvement Program
MoHA                       -   Ministry of Home Affairs
OECF                       -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OED                        -   Operations Evaluations Department
O&M I                      -   Operations & Maintenance
PAM JAYA                   -   Water Enterprise for DKI Jakarta
PD PAL                     -   PD Pengelola Air Limbah (Sewerage Manag,ement Enterprise)
Pl)                        -   Project Implementation Unit
PJSIP                      -   PAM JAYA System Improvement Project
PMU                        -   Project Management Unit
PO.                        -  Authority of Jatiluhur
PRWLP                      -   Pejompongan Raw Water Line Project
PSP                        -   Private Sector Participation
TA                         -   Technical Assistance
UfW                        -   Unaccounted for Water
WTC                        -   West Tarum Canal
WTP                        -   Water Treatment Plant
Vice President                         Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director                       Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager                         Keshav Varma
Task Manager                           Alain Locussol



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUIBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3219-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .in.................. 1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................... iV
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES              ..................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......2....................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .............................. ..8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY............                  .9.......... 9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .....................           .                                  10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................                                           10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................        ..11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ......................                                            11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .....................                                           12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT .13
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS                                .14
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE .16
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS-CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL                    .16
TABLES. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJrECT IMPLEMENTATION (5A1, 5A2, 5B1 &5B2) .17
TABLE 6. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJrECT OPERATION (6A 1 & 6A2) .21
TABLE 7. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .23
TABLE 8A. PROJECT COSTS ..................................................              26
TABLE 8B. PROJECT FINANCING ..................................................          26
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS-BENEF ITS ..................................................    26
TABLE 10. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..................................................  27
TABLE 11. COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................................. 30
TABLE 12. BANK RESOURCES-STAFF INPUTS ..................................................  30
TABLE 13. BANK RESOURCES-MISSIONS ..................................................    31
APPENDICES:
A. MISSION 'S  AIDE-MEMOIRE  ........................................................   34
B. BORRowER'S CONTRIBUTION TO TEIE ICR ........................................................  38
C. ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN ......................                                      53
MAPS (IBRD Nos. 21674, 21675, 22039)
SUPPLEMENTARY TABLES AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
TABLE 1 A & B. PAM JAYA Income Statement 1990-96
TABLE 2 A & B. PAM JAYA Sources and Applications of Funds 1990-96
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
TABLE 3 A & B. PAM JAYA Balance Sheet 1990-96
TABLE 4 A & B. PDAM Tangerang Income Statement 1990-96
TABLE 5 A& B. PDAM Tangerang Sources and Applications of Funds 1990-96
TABLE 6 A& B. PDAM Tangerang Balance Sheet 1990-96
TABLE 7 PD PAL JAYA Connections and Service Areas



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUEBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(loan 3219-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Jabotabek
Urban Development Project in the Republic of Indonesia, for which Loan 3219-IND in the
amount of US$190.0 million was approved on June 5, 1990 and made effective on February
27, 1991. Part of the proceeds of the Loan, the equivalent of US$124.0 million, was on-lent
by the Government to (a) DKI Jakarta (US$19.0 million); (b) PAM JAYA (US$92.0 million);
and (c) PDAM Tangerang (US$13.0 million) for 20 years at 9.5 percent per annum interest.
Loan 3219-ND was closed on December 31, 1997 after a one year extension of the
original closing date of December 31, : 996. Final disbursement took place on April 30, 1998,
and a balance of US$15,265,338.84 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by a team consisting of Alain Locussol (Task Manager),
Dong Liu, Jaehyang So (EASUR), Leila Elvas, Mohamad Nuch (EACIF), and Ephrem Asebe
(EASTR), consultant. It was reviewed by Messrs. Dennis de Tray, Director, Indonesia
Country Management Unit, and Keshav Varma, Manager, Urban Development Sector Unit,
East Asia and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's December 1996 supervision
mission. The ICR is based on material in the Project file and data gathered during the ICR
mission of December 1997, at which time discussions on the draft ICR were held with the
Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing its own
evaluation of the Project, as reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and by
preparing an extensive separate evaluation of the Project, the summary of which is shown in
Appendix B.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3219-IND)
Evaluation Summary
i.    Background. During the mid-1980s, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) introduced
the concept of Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programming (IUIDP), grouping
under a single umbrella: urban transport, water supply, sewerage and sanitation, drainage and
flood control, solid waste management and kampung (neighborhood) improvement (KIP)
investments. Due to the size of Jakarta and its region, known as Jabotabek (Jakarta, Bogor,
Tangerang, Bekasi), it was felt difficult to undertake activities in all sub-sectors under a
single IUIDP project; IUIDP activities were thus divided into three projects. The first
Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP I - Ln. 2932-IND & ICR No. 17116-IND)
dealt with urban transport. JUDP III (Ln. 3246-IND), which is ongoing, deals with KIP and
solid waste management. The project under review, JUDP II (Ln. 3219-IND), dealt with
water supply, sanitation, flood control and drainage.
ii.    Project Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 8339-IND,
the Project's main objectives were to develop and implement a coordinated program of
physical investments, technical assistance and policies for urban water supply, waste water
disposal, drainage and water resource/quality management which would: (a) balance the
existing production capacity with that of the transmission and distribution facilities; (b)
increase piped water supply to about 50 percent of the population; (c) result in improved
service for the poor through construction of standpipes and removal of monopoly water sale
by vendors; (d) improve waste water disposal; (e) strengthen management, staffing and
financial viability of water supply and sewerage institutions; and (f) strengthen Jabotabek
water resource planning capabilities. JUDP II was consistent with GOI policy to decentralize
design, financing and construction responsibilities of urban water supply to municipal water
supply companies and to implement cost recovery measures to ensure sustainability of the
latter.
iii.   Project Components. The Project focused primarily on improving Jakarta's water
supply through three major components: (a) the PAM JAYA (Jakarta Water Supply
Company) System Improvement Project (PJSIP); (b) the Pejompongan Raw Water Line
Project (PRWLP); and (c) the Cisadane Treated Water Line Project (CTWLP). In addition,
the Project financed: (d) the completion of the Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project
(JSSP) initiated under an earlier project; (e) priority flood control and major drainage works
in Jakarta; (c) the preparation of a Jabotabek Water Resource Management Study (JWRMS);
(f) the preparation of future projects; and (g) support to the overall Project Coordination Unit,
JUPCO.
iv.    Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives were simple, focused and well
understood by all implementing agencies. The Project was important for all of them. It was in
particular challenging for PAM JAYA, which for the first time was given responsibility for



v
implementing a large construction program. The design of the Project benefited from earlier
Operations Evaluations Department 4iOED) reviews of the Indonesian water and sanitation
projects. Accordingly, Loan covenants rightly emphasized cost recovery, cash flow,
contribution towards capital expendiiture, and commitments to regular tariff increases. The
Project's objectives were realistic, and targets for service coverage and performance
improvement were based on Bank experience in these sectors in Indonesia.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    Achievement of Objectives. The Project has substantially achieved its physical,
management and financial objectives and realized most of the benefits anticipated, with some
shortcomings. The three major components of the Jakarta Water Supply project have resulted
in more balanced production and distribution capacities. As a result, an additional 2.3 million
people, including lower income groups, now have access to piped water through an
additional 234,000 connections. The service ratio in DKI Jakarta is now estimated to be
above 50 percent, slightly higher than the appraisal forecast. Groundwater abstraction is
likely to have been limited to its 1990 level, but still remains the main water source for many
households and for most high rise buildings that cannot yet rely on PAM JAYA's service.
The overall quality of piped water did not improve significantly because of the deteriorating
quality of raw water sources; consequently most households still boil water obtained from the
piped system before consumption. In 1997, unaccounted for water (UfW) was 56 percent,
i.e., two percentage points above the 1990 figure of 54 percent. PAM JAYA's inability to
reduce UfW is the main failure of lthe Project. PAM JAYA's tariffs have been increased
regularly, as initially agreed; the 1997 tariff increase, however, was delayed to April 1998,
pending conclusion of the negotiations with the two private operators who took over PAM
JAYA's operations in February 1998. While debt and capital structure covenants were
complied with, its contribution to the overall investment program remained slightly below the
required 30 percent. PDAM Tangerang's bulk water tariff to PAM JAYA, although higher
than appraisal forecast, is still below what is needed to cover operations and maintenance
(O&M) costs and debt service. PDAM4 Tangerang's tariff increase, due in January 1996, was
postponed until 1998.
vi.    The Drainage and Flood Control project was completed on time and within budget;
it is estimated to benefit 7,520 hectares of densely populated areas. The Jakarta Sewerage
and Sanitation project was only partially successful, partly because a major urban renewal
effort in the Project area since 1990 affected demand for new connections; however, the floor
area of commercial buildings connected to the sewerage system increased threefold. A pilot
sewerage project in a lower medium income community was not successful because of a lack of
supportive policies on the part of GOIT
vii.   The main achievement of the Jabotabek Water Resource Management study was a
substantial increase of the ground wvater abstraction fee in DKI Jakarta. The Project also
fnanced the preparation of several IUIDP projects (e.g., Surabaya, Kalimantan, Second
Sulawesi) now being implemented.
viii.   Costs and Implementation Time Table. The actual project cost was estimated at
Rp568.4 billion (US$266 million equivalent, compared to the SAR estimate of US$307
million). A reallocation of Loan proceeds among implementing agencies was necessary to cover



vi
the cost overrun of the PRWLP due to implementation delays by about 30 months beyond the
appraisal estimate. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1997, after a one year extension of
the initial closing date.
ix.    Economic Internal Rate of Return. The water supply component is estimated to yield
an EIRR of 11.6 percent, close to the appraisal forecast and a FIRR of 10.5 percent. The
small drainage component is estimated to yield an EIRR of 59 percent, against the appraisal
forecast of 17 percent to 22 percent.
x.    Project Sustainability. GOI commitment to addressing water supply issues in DKI
Jakarta was evidenced by regular tariff increases to make PAM JAYA financially secure, and
a willingness to involve private operators in the delivery of water supply services. However,
the recent change in government and the dramatic downturn in economic conditions make
sustainability of the water supply component uncertain. In particular, the new institutional
arrangement should be more conducive to reducing the high level of unaccounted-for water
(UfW) and thus the cost of services. Sustainability of the small sanitation and sewerage
component is uncertain (even though the physical components have been implemented and
financial covenants met), in the absence of an appropriate policy framework for the urban
sanitation sector. Indications are that the flood control and drainage component of the Project
is likely to be sustainable.
xi.    Main Factors Affecting Implementation of the Project. At GOI level, implementation
of the Project was mostly affected by a number of regulations in existence at appraisal, that
resulted in, for example, the poorly designed implementation and operational arrangements for
the Cisadane bulk water supply scheme. The standard tariff structure recommended to PDAMs
by the Ministry of Home Affairs was suspected to be one of the reasons for high UfW and
consumption distortion. The deterioration of raw water quality delivered to the treatment plants
did not allow a noticeable improvement in the quality of water distributed by PAM JAYA. At
implementing agency level, PJSIP's decision to change the initially agreed procurement plan
and to award more than 200 contracts (more than three times what was initially agreed), led to
less than optimum construction quality.
xii.   Bank Performance. Bank performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal
was satisfactory. Project objectives were kept relatively simple. The main institutional
development that occurred during implementation, i.e., the privatization of PAM JAYA's
operations, an event parallel to but facilitated by the Project, was not envisaged by GOI and the
Bank at appraisal as private sector participation was still a new concept at that time. Bank
perfornance during supervision was also satisfactory, focusing on technical, financial and
institutional aspects. The Bank was also vigilant on procurement and environmental issues.
xiii.  Borrower Performance. GOI performance was satisfactory, as evidenced by a Project
whose physical components have been fully implemented, within budget, and with only minor
delay. PAM JAYA's performance was good, considering its inexperience in implementing a
large construction project. The coordinating role of JUPCO was limited due to its lack of
authority to address problems promptly.
xiv.   Project Outcome. Overall Project outcome is rated satisfactory. Most of the physical
and financial objectives have been achieved. Facilities financed by the Project are already being
heavily used, but O&M costs may rise because construction quality was only barely acceptable.



vii
The failure of the UfW reduction program, and the pilot sewerage project were the main
shortcomings of the Project.
Future Operations and Lessons Learned
xv.   Future Operations. In February 1998, two 25-year "cooperation" agreements
between PAM JAYA and two private consortia became effective. Initially, each consortium
included an international operator and a local partner. Following the May 1998 change of
Government, the international operators were asked to buy the shares of their local partners;
this has now been done. The "cooperation" agreements are modeled after concession
contracts: PAM JAYA remains the owner of existing facilities and will become the owner of
facilities financed by the operators: PAM JAYA will remain responsible for setting the tariff
that applies to consumers. The agreements include detailed performance indicators that
would allow for further monitoring of the piped water supply service in DKI Jakarta. The
institutional arrangements in place are likely to improve these performance indicators. PAM
JAYA has officially provided the Bank with a copy of the two "cooperation" agreements to
enable an assessment of their impact on the Loan Agreement.
xvi.   The current arrangement for operating the Pejompongan transmission line is
satisfactory; transferring O&M activities to one of the two private operators is under
consideration. The current arrangement for operating the Cisadane bulk water supply
facilities could be improved. PDAM Tangerang has contracted out the management of the
treatment plant to a private operator; transfer of the operation of the transmission line and
pumping plants to a single private operator is also envisaged. PD PAL JAYA is likely to
remain a small operation, with limited impact on the sanitary environment in Jakarta, because
the assets it manages do not allow for a significant increase of the customer base.
Arrangements for operation of the major drainage facilities are adequate, although
availability of central government financing for rehabilitation projects, such as that financed
by the Project, could encourage inadequate budgeting for regular maintenance.
Key Lessons Learned
xvii.  Key lessons learned from the project are listed below:
Physical Implementation:
* Good quality preparation is the key to successful implementation;
* The procurement plan agreed at appraisal should be followed without major
modifications; there is little or no advantage in splitting supply and laying of
pipes into separate contracts; and
* UfW is more an institutional than a physical problem.
Institutional Development:
* PDAM performance cannot be improved simply by providing technical
assistance and training;



viii
*  To prepare a meaningful PDAM performance improvement program, it is
necessary to understand the incentive framework in which it operates;
*  UfW reduction programs should be envisaged as part of a larger effort to reduce
operating costs; and
*  UfW is magnified by inappropriate pricing practices, such as low raw water
charges, and a distorted piped water tariff structure.
Financial Developnent:
*   Simple financial covenants are well understood by PDAMs and can be
implemented if both the PDAM and the local government are committed to
improvement;
*  Financial covenants should be carefully designed to avoid automatic transfer of
a PDAM's inefficiencies to users; tariff increases should not be granted without
at the same time instituting a strictly monitored performance improvement
program; and
* Agencies that cannot submit timely audit reports by Government auditors should
be requested to engage private auditors to meet this requirement.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3219-IND)
PART I. PROJECT IM0PLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Background. During the mid-1980s, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) introduced
the concept of Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programming (IUIDP), grouping
under a single umbrella: urban transport, water supply, sewerage and sanitation, drainage and
flood control, solid waste management and kanpung (urban neighborhood) improvement
(KIP) investments. Due to the size of Jakarta and its region, known as Jabotabek (Jakarta,
Bogor, Tangerang, Bekasi), it was felt that activities in all sub-sectors under a single IUIDP
project would be difficult; IUIDP activities were thus divided into three projects. The first
Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP I - Ln. 2932-IND & ICR No. 17116-IND)
dealt with urban transport. JUDP III (]Ln. 3246-IND), still under implementation, deals with
KIP and solid waste management. The project under review, JUDP II (Ln. 3219-IND), dealt
with water supply, sanitation, flood control and drainage.
2.    Project Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 8339-IND,
the Project's main objectives were to develop and implement a coordinated program of
physical investments, technical assistance and policies for urban water supply, waste water
disposal, drainage and water resource/quality management which would: (a) balance the
existing production capacity with that of the transmission and distribution facilities; (b)
increase piped water supply to about 50 percent of the population; (c) result in improved
service for the poor through construction of standpipes and removal of monopoly water sale
by vendors; (d) improve waste water disposal; (e) strengthen management, staffing and
financial viability of water supply and sewerage institutions; and (f) strengthen Jabotabek
water resource planning capabilities. JUDP II was consistent with GOI policy to decentralize
design, financing, and construction responsibilities of urban water supply to municipal water
supply companies and to implement cost recovery measures to ensure sustainability of the
latter.
3.    Project Components. The Project primarily focused on improving water supply in
DKI Jakarta through three major components: (a) the PAM JAYA (DKI Jakarta water supply
company) System Improvement Project (PJSIP), to extend the distribution network to cover
70 percent of Jakarta's territory, reduce unaccounted-for water (UfW) from 49 percent to 37
percent, and improve PAM JAYA's management capacity (PJSIP was co-fnanced by a loan
from the Japanese Government); (b) the Pejompongan Raw Water Line Project (PRWLP) to
improve the quality of the raw water delivered to the Pejompongan water treatment plant
(WTP); and (c) the Cisadane Treated Water Line Project (CTWLP) to improve bulk water
supply to the westem part of DKI Jakarta by linking the Cisadane WTP (financed earlier by a



2
loan from the French Government) to PAM JAYA distribution system. In addition the
Project financed: (d) the completion of the Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project (JSSP)
initiated under an earlier project; (e) priority flood control and major drainage works in DKI
Jakarta; (c) the preparation of a Jabotabek Water Resource Management Study (JWRMS); (f)
the preparation of future projects; and (g) support to the overall Project Coordination Unit,
JUPCO.
4.    Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives were simple, focused and well
understood by all implementing agencies. The Project was important for all of them; it was in
particular challenging for PAM JAYA, which for the first time was given responsibility for
implementing a large construction program. The design of the Project benefited from earlier
Operations Evaluations Department (OED) reviews of the Indonesian water and sanitation
projects (OED Report No. 6256 of June 1986). Accordingly, Loan covenants rightly
emphasized cost recovery, cash flow, contribution towards capital expenditure and
commitments to regular tariff increases. Project objectives were realistic and targets for
service coverage and performance improvement were based on the Bank experience in these
sectors in Indonesia.
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.    Overall Assessment. The Project has substantially achieved its physical and financial
objectives and has realized most of the benefits anticipated, with some exceptions.
Bl. Jakarta Water Supply
6.    The three major components in Jakarta water supply (PJSIP, PRWLP and CTWLP)
have been completed. Their major physical and financial objectives have been substantially
achieved, with some exceptions. The economic and financial rates of return of the water
supply components (11.6 percent and 10.5 percent respectively) are comparable to appraisal
forecasts (Appendix C).
7.    PAM JAYA System Improvement Project (PJSIP). Table 1 below summarizes the
evolution of water supply service in DKI Jakarta between 1990 and 1997. During this period,
2,265 km of distribution pipes were added, and the number of connections more than doubled
to 462,000; however, the number of standpipes, forecast to increase from 2,100 to 4,900,
went down to below 1,500 (para. 18). As of end 1997, about half of DKI Jakarta's population
had access to piped water; however, while actual water production was above SAR forecast
by 13 percent, water sales were below by 14 percent, reflecting PAM JAYA's inability to
reduce UfW (para. 8).



3
Table 1. Jakarta Water Supply-Mlin Physical Achievements
1990    1996     1996   1997      1997 % (Est/
Units   Actual   SAR     Actual  SAR       Est.  SAR)
Population in service area      000    6,439   8,260    8,695  8,695    8,880     110
Service ratio                    %      35.4   46.5    45.3   49.1    52.1         95
Population served               000    2,280   3,840    3,940  4,135    4,624     112
Population not served           000    4,160   4,420    4,755  4,290    4,256     115
Connections                     000      228    384      394    414      462      108
Standpipes                      unit   2,100                   4,900    1,500     31
Production capacity             i3/s    10.4   16.7    16.3  17.93       17.0      95
PAM JAYA own production     mio rn3/y    263    326      401    339      430      127
Purchase from Cisadane      mio rn3/y      0     65       10     76       38       50
Total production            mio i3/y     263    390      410    415      463      112
Sales                       mio n3/y     123    219      176    237      205       86
Unaccounted for water (UfW)       %       54     44       57     43       56      130
Distribution network            km    3,672             5,653           5,937
Connection density             J/km       62              70              75
8.    In 1997, UfW reached 56 percent, i.e., two percentage points above the 1990 figure
of 54 percent or 13 percentage poinits above the SAR forecast of 43 percent. The UfW
reduction program is the main failure of the Project. At the time of appraisal, UfW was
mostly perceived as a "physical" problem, and the UfW reduction program, designed along
the lines of a Bank manual that had just been published, focused mostly on rehabilitating
what was perceived to be a "leaky"' distribution network. Between 1990 and 1997, 178
elementary distribution cells out of sa total of 250 were rehabilitated by PJSIP and handed
over to PAM JAYA after UfW in each cell was measured below 30 percent. This has not
translated into a reduction of PAM JAYA's overall UfW, which remained above 50 percent
throughout the Project implementaition period. In retrospect, it would have been more
appropriate to focus first on improving commercial management by placing PAM JAYA
within an incentive framework, encouraging reduction of operating costs and increase in
revenues. The fact that the two private operators, who took over operations early in 1998
(para. 33) and who would operate in such a framework, are confident that UfW can be
reduced to 35 percent by end 2002, by combining an overhaul of commercial management
and the continuation of the rehabilitation program initiated under PJSIP, tends to confirm this
diagnosis.
9.    Between 1990 and 1997, the quality of piped water distributed in Jakarta did not
improve as expected because of the deteriorating quality of raw water delivered to the water
treatment plants (WTPs) and contamination in the distribution system in areas not yet served
with sufficient pressure. As a result, customers still boil piped water or use bottled water for
drinking purposes.
10.   In 1997, PAM JAYA sold about 82 million m3 of water (2.6 m3/s or 225,00 m3/day)
more than in 1990. This extension of the piped water service is likely to have resulted in a



4
stabilization of groundwater abstraction, since the population with no access to piped water
remained unchanged at about four million. However, DKI Jakarta, which is now responsible
for monitoring ground water abstraction, is believed to meter and tax no more than 30 percent
of groundwater pumped from deep aquifers. In 1997, most high rise buildings were still using
their own water sources, because the piped water supply service does not guarantee
continuity and quality. Land subsidence resulting from over abstraction in deep aquifers
continues to be a major constraint for the drainage system of a city that barely lies above sea
level.
11.   Pejompongan Raw Water Line Project (PRWLP). PRWLP involved: (a) limited
rehabilitation of the West Tarum Canal (WTC); (b) the construction of an intake and
pumping station on WTC; and (c) construction of twin pipelines 1.6 m diameter, to replace
the current supply of the Pejompongan WTP from the polluted Banjir canal by that of WTC.
Construction suffered a delay of about 30 months beyond the appraisal estimate, but facilities
finally became fully operational in June 1997. The 8 percent cost overrun that resulted from
this delay forced a reallocation of the Loan proceeds among implementing agencies. It is not
yet possible to fully assess the impact on operations of the Pejompongan WTP (mostly
savings on chemicals) because of the short period of observation.
12.   Cisadane Treated Water Line Project (CTWLP). CTWLP involved the
construction of a transmission line between the Cisadane WTP and PAM JAYA's
distribution network. It was implemented by PDAM Tangerang. Construction suffered a
delay of about 20 months beyond the appraisal estimates, because of slow acquisition of
rights of way. Operations started only in 1996, but PAM JAYA's distribution system would
have not been able to absorb incremental production earlier. Negotiations of the bulk water
supply agreement between PDAM Tangerang and PAM JAYA took more than two years.
The current arrangement for operating this bulk water scheme is not optimum and involves:
(a) a private operator under contract with PDAM Tangerang for the Cisadane WTP; (b)
PDAM Tangerang for the portion of the transmission line located in kabupaten Tangerang;
and (c) the private operator for the western part of PAM JAYA water supply system, for the
portion of the transmission line and pumping plants located in DKI Jakarta. In Serpong, the
Project also financed a small distribution network that was built on time.
13.   Institutional Development Objectives-PAM JAYA. The impact of the Project
was modest. The action plan designed to address PAM JAYA's management weaknesses and
agreed upon at the time of appraisal, was prepared with the assistance of a TA team from a
large international private water distributor. Procedures prepared by this team became
effective in April 1995. Soon after, PAM JAYA decided to implement a more decentralized
structure; this decision, combined with too many reassignments of staff who had earlier been
formally trained on new procedures, hampered implementation of the latter. Nevertheless,
between 1990 and 1997, improvement could be noticed in the preparation of management
reports and audits, number of audit qualifications, management of personnel, quantity of
training provided, reduction of accounts receivable, and in number of employees per 1000
connections. Less success could be noticed on staff qualification and motivation, customer
relations, efficiency of training, and cost control. In fact, PAM JAYA's commitment to
improving its performance through the above action plan declined sharply, when GOI
initiated negotiations to transfer the responsibility for operating and developing the piped
water supply service to two private consortia (para. 33) and when it became clear that PAM
JAYA was unlikely continue as the operator because of an obvious conflict of interest. Bank



5
financing for the above institutional development technical assistance (TA) contract was
terminated soon after the Bank was informed that the TA company was one of the two
private consortia.
Table 2. PAM JAYA-Selected Management Indicators
1990    1996    1996    1997    1997
Units    Actual   SAR    Actual   SAR        Est.
Number of employees          person    2,186    3,160    2,180    3,265    2,213
Employees per 1000 connections   person  9.6     8.2      7.6      5.5      4.8
Days account receivable        days      66       76       15       76       35
UfW                             0",      54       44       57       43       56
Audit qualifications                                     None             None
14.   Institutional Development Objectives-Authority of Jatiluhur (POJ). The impact
of the Project was marginal on a public authority with limited commercial orientation, even
though an action plan to improve POJ accounting and budgeting procedures and preparation
of financial reports was successfully implemented in 1994. In the case of PDAM Tangerang,
the program to improve its accounting and budgeting procedures was undertaken, but the
recent decision to split PDAM Tangerang into two, following the creation of a kotamadya
(municipality) distinct from the kabupaten (regency) is likely to have a negative impact on
the efficiency of its operations.
15.   Financial Objectives-PAM  JAYA. The project's financial objectives were
achieved. PAM JAYA's water tariff was adjusted in November 1991 by about 30 percent,
and again in July 1994 by about 54 percent. The latter increase resulted in an average
revenue of about Rpl,450/m3 (equivalent to US$0.65/m3 at the exchange rate of
Rp2,200/m3 prevailing on that date), a very high rate by Indonesian and South East Asian
standards. The tariff increase due for 1997 was implemented when the two private operators
took over operations in February 1998. In April 1998, the average tariff was Rpl,920/m3
(equivalent to US$0.23/m3 at the exchange rate of Rp8,500/US$). Although the financial
crisis that hit Indonesia in July 1997 mrnakes comparison difficult, the average 1998 tariff is
below that of 1994, expressed in constant Rupiah. This reflects both expected productivity
gains, and a rescheduling of PAM JAYA's debt granted by the Ministry of Finance. (The
Bank's views have not been sought on the latter.) PAM JAYA water tariff structure was
simplified in 1994, but still remained fairly complex until the 1998 tariff revision; it was
suspected to be a reason for high UfW by implicitly encouraging meter readers to reduce
actual readings in order to maintain billings in lower blocks. It also distorted consumption;
industrial and commercial customers still preferred to use substitute sources of supply, such
as poorly regulated groundwater, in part because of the high rates applied to them for PAM
JAYA water. Groundwater abstraction fees in DKI Jakarta were adjusted in August 1994 and
placed above the highest block for pipeSd water to discourage such action.



6
Table 3. PAM JAYA-Selected Financial Indicators
1990    1996    1996    1997    1997
Units   Actual   SAR    Actual   SAR       Est.
Average tariff- Current prices  Rp/m3      682    1,176    1,491    1,352    1,491
Total operating revenues       Rp bn      91.6   262.4   296.3   325.9   349.5
Total operating expenses       Rp bn      66.1   159.4   170.5   181.2   214.4
Working ratio                    %          72      61       58       56      61
Operating ratio                  %          70      77       68      74       72
Current ratio                              2.3      2.9     0.5      3.1      1.1
Debt service coverage ratio                3.0      1.9     1.8      2.6
Debt/Debt plus equity ratio      %          57      58       74       54      69
Contribution to investment Annual  %        26      23       29      64       17
3 year average                  %          37      24       31       52      19
DKI equity ( after adj. in 1990)  Rp bn    2.6    26.9    43.0    35.5    18.7
RoR on re-valued assets          %         7.8      6.0    17.2      7.0    11.9
1/ There was no loan amortization due for payment in 1997 because this has been included in the
loan rescheduling scheme which took effect on the effective date of the concession.
16.   PAM  JAYA's debt and capital structure covenants were complied with, but
contributions to the overall investment program from cash generation remained below 30
percent, because the non PJSIP investment program (mostly the second phase of CTWLP)
did not materialize. Also, DKI Jakarta decided to reduce its equity contribution, not really
needed after the 1994 tariff increase that resulted in a very comfortable cash situation for
PAM JAYA. Between 1990 and 1995, PAM JAYA's profit distribution to DKI Jakarta
totaled Rp3O.6 billion (US$8.0 million equivalent), despite recommendation of the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MoHA) to retain earnings for financing system extensions until the
coverage ratio reached 75 percent.
17.   Financial Objectives-POJ. Financial objectives were partially achieved. Since
PRWLP covered only a small part of POJ's fixed assets, financial covenants were limited to
financial aspects directly related to the Project. POJ raw water tariff to PAM JAYA was
adjusted in 1994 and again in 1997 to Rp35/m3; it covers O&M costs, but not depreciation of
the facilities built. The large difference between raw and treated water tariffs did not provide
PAM JAYA an incentive to reduce its production costs and thus to limit physical UfW.
Concerning PDAM Tangerang, the bulk water tariff it charges PAM JAYA is above the
appraisal estimate, but below what is needed to cover the cost of the Cisadane WTP
management contract and the debt service associated with the CTWLP. PDAM Tangerang's
tariff increase, due for January 1996, was postponed until 1998. The debt coverage ratio and
contribution to capital covenants were not complied with; nevertheless, PDAM Tangerang
paid dividends to its local government, against MoHA recommendations.
18.   Poverty Reduction Objectives. This objective was partially achieved. The total
number of public hydrants reached about 2,150 in 1993, but by 1997 it was back to its 1989



7
level of about 1,480. PAM JAYA had little incentive to install new hydrants where water is
sold below cost. While construction of an additional 234,000 connections between 1990 and
1997 had a positive effect on lower income groups who could purchase water from their
neighbors, the impact of the hydrant program, as initially envisaged, has not been sustained.
Two independent reviews concluded that liberalization of water sales by households to their
neighbors had a positive effect, but ifound no compelling evidence of the existence of a
monopoly in the hydrant operator-vendor market. They also cautioned that the unit cost of
operating hydrants may increase as their numbers increase and the volume of water sold by
each hydrant decreases, and they fiurther demonstrated that promoting a social house
connection program would be both economically and financially superior to providing public
hydrants. The two operators who took over PAM JAYA's operations in 1998 (para. 33) are
not required to provide additional hydrants, but are instead encouraged to seek attractive
commercial policies to favor connections to lower income households.
B2. Other Physical Components
19.   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project (JSSP). The objectives of this
component were only partially achieved. The Project financed the completion of works
started under an earlier Project, whose outcome was rated "unsatisfactory" (OED Report
PPAR No. 13285). Construction was carried out on time, but because of the major urban
renewal that affected the Project area between 1990 and 1997, the number of connections
remained at its 1990 level of about 1,000, compared with the SAR estimate of about 3,700.
However, the floor area of commercial buildings connected increased threefold. (Because
most high rise buildings connected ito the sewerage network are not connected to PAM
JAYA's piped water, PD PAL JAYA, the DKI Jakarta municipal waste water utility
company, uses floor area rather than water consumption as a basis for billing.) The targeted
volume of waste water to be treated al: the Setiabudi ponds was achieved. The Bank declined
to finance the "low cost sewerage pilot project" built in a lower middle income
neighborhood, Malakasari, because no agreement could be reached on a process for
consulting households targeted for connection. To date, despite completion of sewers and of
a small waste water treatment plant, no households have been connected. PD PAL JAYA
remains a small operation, employing 125 staff and serving only about 1,000 connections,
with growth possibilities limited to the Project area and depending mostly on connections to
new high rise buildings. Although PD PAL JAYA complied with financial covenants (mostly
coverage of O&M costs), assets built under the first JSSP have not yet been transferred by
the central government. The Project also financed "micro drains" in neighborhoods newly
served with piped water. This component was successfully implemented.
20.   Flood Control and Major Drainage. The objectives of this component were
substantially achieved. It included the dredging and rehabilitation of main canals and of a
large storm water drainage reservoir and associated pumping stations, and the construction of
two tidal gates. Assets have been transferred to DKI Jakarta, which is responsible for O&M.
It is estimated that a total of about 7,500 hectares of densely populated areas would benefit
from the improved drainage conditions. Increase in land value, as a result of flood and
drainage improvements, yielded a 59 percent economic rate of return, to be compared to SAR
estimates of 17 to 22 percent (Appencdix C).



8
B3. Major Studies and Project Coordination
21.   Jabotabek Water Resource Management Study (JWRMS). JWRMS had a
positive impact on identifying possibilities and constraints in the management of water
resources in the Jabotabek area. It: (a) formulated scenarios for long term water demand, in
particular in relation to pricing policy; (b) reviewed surface and ground water options; (c)
compared transfer schemes; and (d) proposed pricing strategies. JWRMS' main conclusion to
develop a new transmission line from the Jatiluhur reservoir in the next decade, before a new
reservoir located West of Jabotabek is built, may, however, have to be reconsidered. JWRMS
did not cover the complex institutional aspects of water resource management in the two
provinces of West Java and DKI Jakarta, where Jabotabek is located. This may explain the
somewhat limited follow-up activities so far in preparing long term solutions along the lines
recommended.
22.   Other Studies and Project Coordination. The Project made a substantial
contribution to the preparation of several follow-on Bank supported IUIDPs (Surabaya,
Kalimantan, Semarang-Surakarta, Second Sulawesi) which are now under implementation. It
also made a contribution to the development of a project monitoring system within the
Directorate General of Human Settlements of the Ministry of Public Works. The Project
financed limited TA to the GOI team that negotiated the "cooperation" agreements with the
two private consortia (the main TA contract was financed by a PHRD Grant) and TA to
JUPCO for overall monitoring and coordination of JUDP II.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   Factors Outside Government Control. All major factors affecting the project were
within government or implementing agency control.
24.   Factors Subject to Government Control. The Project was designed to fit
regulations in effect at the time of appraisal, in particular those governing PDAMs. Some of
them had an impact on the achievement of Project objectives. For example, the poorly
designed implementation and operating arrangements for the Cisadane bulk water supply
scheme (paras. 12, 34) reflect the rule "one PDAM per local government-each PDAM
responsible for projects in its territory". The distorted water consumption and high UfW may
have their roots in the tariff structure recommended by MoHA and raw water tariffs that POJ
was allowed to charge (paras. 15, 17). The deterioration of raw water quality delivered to the
WTPs did not allow for a noticeable improvement in the water distributed by PAM JAYA
(para. 9). Procurement regulations that restrict the selection of certain categories of
contractors for smaller constructions barred PAM JAYA from attracting better qualified
contractors. Splitting pipe supply and laying contracts, a practice initially designed to favor
local steel pipe manufacturers (imposed on most PDAMs by central government agencies)
has not proven to be very efficient and cost effective. The absence of a clear policy in urban
sanitation did not allow for testing the feasibility of sewerage options in lower income
neighborhoods (para. 19). Slow transfer of assets built by central government agencies was
often a cause for the delays in audit reports (para. 19). It does not appear that implementation
of PJSIP suffered from GOI's decision to privatize PAM JAYA's operations (para. 33); staff
morale was affected to some extent, although an agreement was reached early with the
consortia that there would not be lay-offs. The decision to split PDAM Tangerang into two
may affect implementation of its management improvement program (para. 14).



9
25.   Factors Subject to Implementing Agencies Control. Delays in procurement and
implementation were often an issue. While procurement was generally handled in a
reasonable manner by most agencies, PJSIP's decision to split the 64 contracts initially
agreed in the procurement plan into more than 200, led to an additional administrative burden
and to the selection of poorly qualified contractors. As a result, quality of construction of
smaller diameter pipes under this component can be rated less than optimum. Delays in
construction were mostly due to slow issuance of digging permits (PJSIP), slow acquisition
of rights of way (CTWLP), or the extreme difficulty in laying large diameter pipes in the
center of a very busy city (PRWLP). No major changes were made to the Project, apart from
the reallocation of the Loan proceeds among agencies to finance the PRWLP cost overrun
(para. 11). The only serious environiental issue to be addressed was the proper disposal of
the spoil from the Pluit storm water reservoir (para. 20); this was handled professionally,
according to a plan agreed with the Bank. Resettlement was not a major issue and the few
households that had to be resettled, mostly under PRWLP, were properly compensated. As
with most projects in the sector, implementation depended heavily on TA provided by
international and local consultants; TA absorbed 20 percent of total disbursements. The
performance of consultants was satis factory.
D. Project Sustainability
26.   GOI's commitment to addressing Jakarta's water supply issues was demonstrated
through its willingness to set tarliffs at a level that ensured PAM JAYA's financial
sustainability, and the strong drive lo involve the private sector in the provision of service.
The institutional arrangements that became effective on February 1, 1998 are likely to be
more sustainable than the one envisioned at appraisal. The expected increase in efficiency
from improved monitoring of the operator's performance should eventually translate into
lower tariffs. The two professional operators are likely to be more successful than PAM
JAYA in lobbying for implementation of a water resource management program and in
obtaining additional sources in a tinnely manner; the protection of raw water quality is also
likely to become a priority (para. 21). An appropriate regulatory framework still needs to be
put in place to guarantee that all ca1tegories of consumers will benefit from efficiency gains
achieved by private operators. Nevertheless, the recent change in government and the
dramatic downturn in economic conditions make sustainability of the water supply
component uncertain.
27.   JSSP had a marginal input on the sanitary environment in Jakarta. Between 1990 and
1997, GOI only made limited progress in developing a sanitation strategy for Jakarta. The
master plan prepared in 1991 under Japanese financing was never approved, and alternatives
consisting of developing "modular systems" were rapidly faced with the issues of land
availability for waste water treatment plants and the environmental problems related to their
operation. Sustainability of the flood control and drainage component of the Project is likely,
even if rehabilitation activities, such as dredging of major canals and storm drainage
reservoirs, are mostly deferred maintenance that should be financed by O&M budgets rather
than by investment budgets.



10
E. Bank Performance
28.   Bank performance during Project identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. The appraisal team tried to keep the Project simple in its objectives and
components, although the Project eventually had to deal with three main urban sub-sectors,
and eight different implementing agencies. The quality of preparation was sufficient to allow
for immediate implementation of most components. The designs of the UfW reduction
program and of PDAM performance improvement program reflected the thinking that
prevailed at the time of appraisal (paras. 8 & 13). In the late 1980s, private sector
participation (PSP) in the delivery of water supply services was still a new concept for both
GOI and the Bank; had GOI proposed a PSP option, it would have most likely been turned
down by the Bank, following other unsuccessful experiences in Indonesia. The Bank had a
more limited input in the design of the other sub-projects, but after the failure of the first
JSSP, it could have refused to support a repeater project without prior agreement on a
sewerage and sanitation policy framework. In the case of the flood control and major
drainage component, the Project merely supplemented funding of the largest financier in this
field, OECF of Japan.
29.   Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory. The Bank supervised the
Project at least twice a year during the initial years of implementation. Once most
implementation problems were solved, annual supervisions were carried out, with brief
follow-up missions visiting the main implementing agencies at least three times a year to
follow-up on actions agreed upon. Further support was provided by staff of the resident
mission on an as required basis. Supervision missions focused mostly on technical, financial
and institutional aspects. They paid less attention to the poverty reduction objective, after
reviews suggested that the public hydrant program might not have been the optimum service
option (para. 18).
30.   No  deviations from  Bank policies and procedures were noticed  during
implementation. The Bank was particularly vigilant on procurement issues, and paid close
attention to environmental and resettlement issues. Representatives of the OECF-financed
project generally joined supervision meetings with PAM JAYA; since the Bank and OECF
projects were implemented in different geographical areas, this was more for mutual
information on progress than for detailed coordination.
F. Borrower Performance
31.   GOI performance was satisfactory, as evidenced by a Project whose main objectives
have been achieved; physical components have been fully implemented, within budget and
with only minor delay. Agencies tended, however, to focus too much on implementation
issues, and not enough on achievement of objectives. PAM JAYA's performance was of
good quality, taking into account its inexperience in implementing large construction
programs; however, planning and procurement procedures could have been better. All
agencies issued sufficiently documented progress reports and audit reports. However, the
coordinating agency JUPCO has recently experienced delays in obtaining audit reports from
Government auditors. All agencies demonstrated commitment to the Project objectives, and
most covenants were complied with. Coordination could have been somewhat better; JUPCO,
acting mostly as an intermediary between the various implementing agencies and the Bank,
lacked the authority to promptly address issues such as the reallocation of Loan proceeds



11
(para. 11) and to accelerate negotiations of the Cisadane bulk water supply agreement (para.
12).
G. Aisessment of Outcome
32.   On the whole, the Project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The Project has
achieved most of its physical and financial objectives. The privatization of PAM JAYA's
operations, an event parallel to, but facilitated by the Project, is likely to further achieve
development objectives. Facilities financed by the Project are already being heavily used, but
the average quality of construction of some distribution pipes might lead to higher than
standard O&M costs. The UfW reduction program and the low cost sewerage pilot project
are the main failures of the Project.
H. Future Operations
33.   Jakarta Water Supply. In February 1998, two 25-year "cooperation" agreements
between PAM JAYA and two private consortia became effective. Initially, each consortium
included an international operator anld a local partner. Following the May 1998 change of
government, the international operators were asked to buy the shares of their local partners;
this has now been done. The "cooperation" agreements are modeled after concession
contracts: PAM JAYA remains the owner of existing facilities and will become the owner of
facilities financed by the operators. PAM JAYA will remain responsible for setting the tariff
that applies to consumers. The agreements include detailed performance indicators that
would allow for further monitoring of the piped water supply service in DKI Jakarta. The
institutional arrangements in place are likely to improve these performance indicators. PAM
JAYA has officially provided the Bank with a copy of the two "cooperation" agreements to
enable an assessment of their impact on the Loan Agreement.
34.   The current arrangement for operation of the Pejompongan transmission line by POJ
is satisfactory; POJ envisages the possibility of transferring O&M activities to one of the two
private operators under a "management" contract. The arrangement for operation of the
Cisadane transmission line could be improved. PDAM Tangerang has recently contracted out
the management of the Cisadane WVTP to a private operator. For the time being, PDAM
Tangerang still operates the part of the facilities located in its territory, while facilities located
in Jakarta are operated by the private operator for the western part of the PAM JAYA's
operations (Para. 12). This private operator could take over O&M responsibility for the entire
CTWLP scheme.
35.   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation. PD PAL JAYA is likely to remain a small
operation, with a limited impact on the sanitary environment in Jakarta, because the assets it
manages do not allow for a significant increase of the customer base. However, it should be
able to continue financing its O&M from user charges.
36.   Jakarta Flood Control and Major Drainage. DKI Jakarta will operate the major
drainage facilities, but availability of central govermment financing for rehabilitation projects,
such as that financed by the Project, could be a disincentive to adequate budgeting for regular
maintenance.



12
I. Key Lessons Learned
37.   Physical Implementation. The main lessons learned are:
(a)    Good quality preparation is key for successful implementation (para. 28);
(b)    The procurement plan agreed at appraisal should be followed without major
modifications (para. 25); there is little or no advantage in splitting supply and
laying of pipes in separate contracts (para. 24);
(c)    UfW is more an institutional than a physical problem (para. 8).
38.   Institutional Development. The main lessons learned are:
(a)    PDAM performance cannot be improved simply through the provision of TA
and training (para. 13);
(b)    To prepare a meaningful PDAM performance improvement program, it is
necessary to understand the incentive framework in which it operates (para.
8);
(c)    UfW reduction programs should be envisaged as a part of a much larger
effort to reduce operating costs (para. 8)
(d)    UfW is magnified by inappropriate pricing practices, such as low raw water
charges and distorted piped water tariff structure (paras. 15, 17).
39.   Financial Development. The major lessons learned are:
(a)    Simple financial covenants are well understood by PDAMs and can be
implemented if both the PDAM and its local government are committed to
improvement (pares. 15, 17);
(b)    Financial covenants should be carefully designed to avoid automatic transfer
of PDAM inefficiencies to users; tariff increases should not be granted
without instituting a strictly monitored performance improvement program
(para. 15, 17); and
(c)    Agencies that cannot submit timely audit reports by Government auditors
should be requested to engage private auditors to meet this requirement
(para. 31).



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1NDONESIA
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3219-IND)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial        Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                    []                5               X                S
Sector policies                          [5                 X              5                 O
Financial objectives                      X                 0               5                E
Institutional development                 [J                X              5                 5
Physical objectives                       X                 5 i                              0
Poverty reduction                         []                X              5                 O
Gender concerns                           5                5                X                E
Other social objectives                   []                                X                O
Environmental objectives                  [                 X               El               n
Public sector management                  5                 X              O                 
Private sector development                I]                X                                E l
Economic benefits                         0                 X              O                 a
B. Project Sustainability               Likely           Unlikely       Uncertain
I5               5               x
C. Bank Performance                     High1y
Satisiqctory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                            O                 X              5
Preparation assistance                    5                 X              5
Appraisal                                 5                 X              5
Supervision                               E                 X              E
D. Borrower Performance                 Hi ghly
Satisractorg     Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                ]                X              E
Implementation                            a                 X              5
Covenant compliance                       5                 X              5
Operation                                 5                 X              5
E. Assessment of Outcome                Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
E                x               O



14
Table 2. Related Urban and Water Supply Bank Loans
Year of
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                            approval  Status
Precedine.
operations *
Fourth Urban      To implement a nationwide KIP, a sites and services program, and to  1981    Closed
Development Project strengthen the management capabilities of Bank Tabungan Negara
(Loan 1972-IND)    (BTN) and PERUMNAS.
Fifth Urban       To improve basic urban services and strengthen municipal administration   1984    Closed
Development Project in the project cities (Surabaya, Semarang, Surakarta, and Ujung Pandang)
(Loan 2408-IND)    and augment the capacity for local resource mobilization.
ousing Sector Loan To expand access to housing fnance for low and middle income  1986    Closed
(Loan 2725- IND)   households; to reduce overall subsidies to the lowest income groups; to
reduce the reliance of the housing finance system on government funds
and introduce new instruments for resource mobilization; to stimulate the
production of more low cost housing by both public and private
developers; to generate employment and to strengthen BTN and
PERUMNAS.
Urban Sector Loan   To carry out GOI's FY87/88 and FY88/89 urban infrastructure   1987    Closed
(Loan 2816-IND)    expenditure program; to strengthen sector institutions and procedures; to
improve local resource mobilization; and to increase the responsibilities
of local governments for urban infrastructure planning, fnancing and
implementation.
Regional Cities   To implement a program for relieving traffic congestion and promote  1987    Closed
Urban Transport   transport efficiency; to strengthen city government capabilities in the
Project           planning, implementation, and maintenance of traffic and transport
(Loan 2817-IND)    facilities; and to establish a process of coordinating the investment
activities of central, provincial and city government agencies in urban
transport programs.                                                          ll
Jabotabek Urban    To provide technical assistance for institutional development and training   1988    Closed
Development Project in urban management; and physical works for road improvement and
(Loan 2932-IND)    construction.                                                                l.
Third Jabotabek   To introduce a more effective and sustainable approach to provision of  1991    Active
Urban Development basic services in Jabotabek through extensive community participation in
roject           recognized low-income urban communities; to strengthen environmental
(Loan 3246-IND)    protection and pollution control in the Jakarta region; and to improve
maintenance of existing infrastructure networks and provide a firmer
basis to plan future development priorities.
East Java - Bali  To support urban infrastructure investment (including rehabilitation in up   1991    Closed
Urban Development to 45 local governments in East Java and Bali, including a limited
Project           expansion of water distribution system in the city of Surabaya; to
(Loan 3304-IND)    improve urban infrastructure expenditure programming, fnancial
planning and information management for local governments; to
encourage local revenue generation, improved financial management;
and to assist sector development nation wide, including preparation of
future projects.



15
Table 2 (cont'd)
Year of
Loan/credit title                           Purpose                             approval  Status
Following projects
Sulawesi - Irian Jaya To provide urban infrastructure in selected cities in Sulawesi and Irian  1991    Closed
Urban Development Jaya with increase in access of households to water supply and sanitation
Project            services; to support improved infrastructure programming and financial
(Loan 3340-IND)    planning in these cities; to encourage local governments and water
enterprises in revenue genemration and improved financial management.
Surabaya Urban     To improve: urban service levels and affordability, particularly for the  1994    Active
Development Project poor in Surabaya; productivity and the effectiveness of investments
(Loarn 3726-IND)    through better infrastructure planning and management, revenue
mobilization, project implementation and O&M; environmental quality
by enhancing local governmnent capacity to plan, implement and operate
infrastructure in an environmentally sound fashion and also by enhancing
community participation.
Semarang-Surakarta To improve the provision of urban infrastructure services and the  1994    Active
Urban Development efficiency of the urban investments in Semarang and Surakarta; to
Project            promote stronger, more autonomous, and financially more independent
(Loan 3749-IND)    municipal governments; and to contribute towards poverty alleviation,
mainly through better access to essential services and an improved urban
environment.
alimantan Urban   In the five cites of Banjarm,asin, Balikpapan, Palangkaraya, Pontianak,  1995    Active
Development Project and Samarinda and their respective Water Enterprises (PDAMs), the
(Loan 3854-IND)    project will improve the provision of urban infrastructure services and
the efficiency of the urban investments; promote stronger, more
autonomous, and financially more independent municipal governments;
contribute towards poverty reduction, mainly through better access to
essential services; and impirove the environment.
Second East Java    To improve the provision of urban services to more than 5 million  1996    Active
Urban Development residents of urban areas in East Java Province (excluding the city of
Project            Surabaya) through appropriate investments in physical infrastructure; to
(Loan 4017- IND)    strengthen operations and maintenance activities for urban services, and
support improved planning, programming, budgeting, financial
management and local revenue generation by local governments; and to
improve urban environmenIt management and reduce environmental
impacts.
Second Sulawesi    To improve the delivery of urban infrastructure services for about 3.6  1997    Active
Urban Development million residents in 41 towns and cities of 40 local governments of the
Project            four Sulawesi provinces through appropriate investments in physical
(Loan 4105-IND)    infrastructure; to strengthen O&M activities for urban services, and
support improved planning, programming, budgeting, financial
management and local revenue generation by local governments; and to
improve urban environmental management and reduce environmental
impacts.
Bali Urban         Improve urban infrastructure services in Bali in a sustainable manner to    1997    Active
Infrastructure Project meet: basic needs in all important urban centers and the needs for
(Loan 4155-IND)    growing urbanization in south Bali as a result of tourism and other
economic activities.
*Preceding projects are those within the ten year limit.



16
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Date planned          Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (IEPS)                           NA                       02/07/88
Preparation                                   03/00/89                   03/00/89
Preapraisal                                   06/00/89                   06/00/89
Appraisal                                     10/00/89                    11/28/89
Negotiations*                                 03/00/89                   05/01/90
Board presentation                            05/00/90                   06/05/90
Signing                                       05/00/90                   07/06/90
Effectiveness                                 07/00/90                   02/27/91
Project completion                            06/30/96                   06/30/97
Loan closing                                  12/31/96                    12/31/97
* Parallel financing meeting. GOI, OECF and IBRD reviewed funding of OECF mission and agreed on parallel financing;
JUDPII negotiation substantially completed by May 1, 1990.
Table 4. Loan Disbursements-Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                    FY91   FY92  FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate*         5.20    17.10  40.30    74.10  116.40   146.40    190.00    190.0
Actual                      5.14    17.04  40.24    74.09  116.38   150.82    168.36    174.59
Actual as % of estimate      100     100    100       100     100      103       89        91
jDate of final disbursement
*Revised estimate.



17
Table 5Al. Key Implementation Indicators PAkM JAYA Physical, Management & Financial
Performance Monitoring Indicators, 1990 - 1997As Appraised
l1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
l ___________________________________________  B udget
DEMAND
Population in Service Area - 000           6,439   6,897   7,178   7,471   7,776   8,093   8,257   8,425
Population Served                          32%    34%      37%      39%    42%    44%    46%    49%
Water Connections - 000                  208.63  233.63  263.63  293.63  323.63  353.63  383.63  413.63
Total Eff. Production Capacity-Liters/second                      13,230  14,930  14,930  17,930  17,930
Total Eff. Production Capacity - Million M3                      417.22  470.83  470.83  565.44  565.44
% Unaccounted-for-Water (Target)           50%    49%      48%     47%    46%    45%    44%    43%
Max. Water Available for Sale-Million M3                          221.19  280.80  286.00  340.47  346.55
Forecast Volume Sold - Million M3         124.87  137.79  152.53  167.28  183.96  201.40  218.49  236.60
Volume Produced and Purchased - Million M3                        315.62  340.67  366.18  390.16  415.09
PAM JAYA Production - Million M3         249.74  270.18  293.33  306.75  311.54  318.00  325.56  339.09
Cisadane Production Capacity - Million M3                          29.33   82.12   82.12   82.12   82.12
MANAGEMENT
# Days Accounts Receivable                   76      76      76      76      76      76      76      76
Number of Employees                        2,554   2,705   2,790   2,870   2,940   3,055   3,160   3,265
Employees per 1000 Connections             1:2.24   11.58   10.58    9.77    9.08    8.64    8.24    7.89
% Increase # of Employees                    8%     6%       3%      3%      2%      4%      3%      3%
FINANCIAL
Average Tariff in Current Prices (Rp/m3)    700    910      980     980   1,176   1,176   1,176   1,352
Average Tariff Increase                      0%    30%       8%      0%    20%       0%      0%     15%
Working Ratio                               58%    55%     52%      53%    49%    54%    61%        56%
Contribution to investment (Annual)        29%    23%      35%    27%       55%    29%    23%       54%
Cont. to Invest. (Ave. of 3 Years)         23%    28%      34%    28%      54%    28%    24%       52%
Rate of Return                              16%    22%      19%    10%       9%      8%      6%      7%
Debt Service Ratio                          3.37    5.26    6.91    3.33    4.64    2.12    1.88    2.62
Debt on Debt Plus Equity                    0.60    0.59    0.63    0.64    0.62    0.61    0.58    0.54



18
Table 5A2. Key Implementation Indicators PAM JAYA Physical, Management & Financial
Performance Monitoring Indicators, 1990-1997Actual
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996        1997
Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited Estimated
DEMAND
Population in Service Area - 000           6,439   6,897   7,178   7,471   7,776   8,128   8,695       8,880
Population Served                           35%      39%     42%     44%      44%     46%      49%      52%
Water Connections - 000                   227.83  267.11  298.89  327.43  340.85  366.73  396.71   462.48
Total Eff. Production Capacity-Liters/second    10,385  10,435  12,485  12,485  12,530  12,380  16,292    17,035
Total Eff. Production Capacity - Million M3    327.50  329.08  393.73  393.73  395.15  390.42  515.19   537.22
% Unaccounted-for Water (Actual or Target)  54%      53%     54%     53%      51%     53%      57%      56%
Max. Water Available for Sale-Million M3   118.52  132.58  163.32  158.35  171.46  164.26  180.69   210.42
Actual or Forecast Volume Sold - Million M3   123.47  138.67  144.12  158.36  167.61  164.05  176.42   204.76
Volume Produced & Purchased - Million M3   262.62  288.85  312.11  336.10  344.23  347.43  411.03   467.53
PAM JAYA Production - Million M3          262.62  288.85  312.11  336.10  336.30  347.00  401.05   429.69
Cisadane Production Capacity - Million M3       -       -       -        -       -       -   25.30    50.46
Ciburial Production Capacity - Million M3       -       -       -        -    7.88    4.73    6.45       6.60
MANAGEMENT
Average Collection Period (Days)              66      29       15       13      11       9       15       35
% Receivable in Billings                     18%      8%      4%       3%      3%      2%       4%       10%
Number of Employees                        2,186   2,250   2,216   2,117   2,098   2,165   2,180    2,213
Employees per 1000 Connections               9.59    8.42    7.41    6.47    6.16    5.90    5.50        4.78
% Increase # of Employees                    0%       3%      -2%     -4%     -1%      3%       1%       2%
FINANCIAL
Average Tariff in Current Prices (Rp/m3)     682     698      927     951   1,197   1,428   1,491       1,491
Average Tariff Increase                      -3%      2%     33%       3%     26%      19%      4%        0%
Working Ratio                               72%      74%     57%     62%      57%     58%      58%      61%
Contribution to Investment (Annual)         26%      26%     19%     47%      28%     24%      29%       17%
Cont. to Invest. (Ave. of 3 Years)          37%      18%     20%     42%      23%     37%      31%       19%
Rate of Return                               8%       8%     12%       7%     10%      13%     17%       12%
Debt Service Ratio                          3.02    1.62    4.46    3.83    3.49    3.32    1.81    24.41
Debt on Debt Plus Equity                    0.57    0.66    0.68    0.67    0.70    0.74    0.74        0.69



19
Table 51B1. Key Indicators for Project Implementation PDAM Tangerang Physical, Management
& Financial Monitoring Indicators, 1990-1997 As Appraised
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
DEMAND
Tangerang Water Production - Million M3/Y      8.6    9.7   10.9   12.1   13.6   15.2   16.7   18.3
Cisadane Bulk Production - Million M3/Y                                9.0   29.4   48.7   65.3   76.8
Volume Produced - Million M3/Y                 8.6    9.7   10.9   21.1   43.1   63.8   82.0   95.0
% Unac'ted-for water (UfW) mcl. Cisadane      26%    25%    25%    26%    26%    26%    26%    260/o
Volume Sold to Tangerang - Million M3          6.4    7.3    8.2    9.1   10.2   11.4   12.5   13.7
Volume Sold to PAM JAYA - Million M3                                   8.9   29.1   48.2   64.6   76.0
Total volume sold - Million M3/Y               6.4    7.3    8.2   18.0   39.4   59.6   77.1   89.7
MANAGEMENT
Days Accounts Receivable                      76      76      76      76      76     76      76      76
umber of Employees                           329    378    427    546    607    668    729    790
% Increase of Employees                        0%    15%    13%    28%        11%    10%      9%      8%
umber of Empl/No of Conec x 1000               12     12      12      12      12      12      12     12
FINANCIAL
Overall Retail Tariff (in current prices) (Rp/m3)  582    679    675    808    803    801    961    963
Average Retail Tariff Increase                 4%    17%      - 1%    20%     -1%     0%    20%       00/
Bulk Tariff(in Current Prices)                                        375    375    375    375    375
Average Bulk Tariff Increase                                                   0%/    0%      0%      0%
Working Ratio                                 35%    37%    39%    37%    33%    32%    31%    33%
% Cont to Inv w/o Cisadane Production Facility
and Int. Capitalized Average of 3 Yrs        56%    40%    30%    40%    57%    53%    69%    38%
Rate of Return Based on Net Income           17.0%   18.2%   17.9%    7.1%    6.2%    9.6%   13.1%   14.70/
Debt Service Ratio                             5.2    6.0    6.3   11.5   21.7    5.4    6.7    2.3
% Debt on Debt Plus Equity                    43%    47%    52%    56%    57%    56%    54%    52%
* Debt without Cisadane production facility and excluding asset revaluation



20
Table 5B2. Key Indicators for Project Implementation PDAM Tangerang Physical, Management
& Financial Monitoring Indicators, 1990-1997 Actual
1990   1991   1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
DEMAND
Tangerang Water Production - Million M3/Y                                            21.2    23.7    30.5
9.1    11.6   17.5    17.4    19.2
Cisadane Bulk Production - Million M3/Y         -       -       -       -       -              0.8    22.6
Volume Produced - Million M3/Y                                                       21.2    24.5    53.1
9.1    11.6   17.5    17.4    19.2
% Unac'ted-for water (U.F.W) incl. Cisadane    28.0%   25.9%   42.1%   38.4%   42.5%   42.2%   42.9%   43.6%
Volume Sold to Tangerang - Million M3                                                 12.3    13.8    18.7
6.6     8.6   10.1    10.7   11.1
Volume Sold to PAM JAYA - Million M3            -       -       -       -       -              0.3    20.5
Total volume sold - Million M3/Y                                                      12.3    14.1    40.2
6.6     8.6   10.1    10.7    11.1
MANAGEMENT
# Days Accounts Receivable                    108      47      56      52      45      50      52      30
Number of Employees                          345      355    356    356    357        353     351     361
% Increase of Employees                       7%      3%      0%      0%      0%      -1%     -1%      3%
Number of Empl/No of Conn x 1000             11.9   10.6    9.1       8.4     8.0     7.4      7.1     6.9
FINANCIAL
Overall Retail Tariff (in Current Prices, Rp/m3)    650    668    694    890    849   869     893     867
Average Retail Tariff Increase               16%      3%      4%    28%      -5%      2%       3%     -3%
Bulk Tariff (in Current Prices)                                 -       -       -       -    450      450
Average Bulk Tariff Increase                                                  0%      0%       0%      0%
Working Ratio                                48%    61%    66%    53%    56%         53%      67%     84%
% Contribution to Investment               -228%    -95%  -183%       8%    20%       -9%    -14%    -19%
(W/o Cisadane Production Facility and
Interest Cap. Average of 3 yrs)
% Contribution to Investment- Ave. 3 yrs    -23%    -10%    -8%       4%     13%      -9%    -14%    -19%
Rate of Return Based on Assets             12.4%    8.0%   11.2%   26.1%   27.4%   29.1%    0.8%   -9.9%
Debt Service Ratio                                                                    4.0      3.6     0.6
5.2     5.5    2.5      9.3     8.2
% Debt on Debt + Equity                      19%   -15%    24%    54%    56%         64%      66%     84%
Debt without Cisadane production facility and excluding asset revaluation



Table 6A1. Key Indicators for Project Operation Future PAM JAYA Monitoring Indicators, 1998-2002
Projected                 GARUDA DIPTA SEMESTA (West Sector)   KEKARPOLA AIRINDO/THAMES WATER
(East Sector)
19981    19991    20001    2001    2002    19981  19991  20001  20011  2002    19981   19991   20001   2001    2002
DEMAND
Population in Service Area -000           9,282    9,467    9,696    9,848    9,996    5,132   5,217   5,302   5,383   5,460    4,150   4,250    4,394    4,465   4,536
Population Served - 000                   4,611    5,437    6,109    6,578    6,965    2,279   2,877   3,321   3,562   3,797    2,332   2,560    2,788    3,016   3,168
Population Served - %                      50%      57%       63%      67%      70%     44%    55%    63%    66%    70%/    55%         59%      63%     68%      70%/
Water Connections at Year-End -000      470,674   571,776  653,885  711,003  757,129  219,067 290,169 342,278 369,396 395,522  251,607 281,607 311,607 341,607 361,607
% Non-Revenue Water                        50%      47%       42%      38%      35%     50%    47%    42%    38%    35%         50%     47%      42%     38%      35%
Max. Water Available for Sale-Million M3  7,827     8,495    7,706    6,972    6,421    3,672   4,007   3,696   3,344   3,080   4,155   4,487    4,010    3,628   3,342
Actual orForecastVolume Sold - MillionM3   210       244      281       317     342      105    123    145    164    174        105      121      136     153      168
Volume Produced and Purchased - Us       15,654    18,074   18,347   18,347   18,347   7,344   8,526   8,799   8,799   8,799    8,310   9,548    9,548    9,548   9,548
Volume Produced and Purchased - Million M3  496      573      582       582     582      233    270    279    279    279        263      303     303      303     303
PDAM Jaya Production - Us                13,585    15,085   15,375   15,375   15,375    5,710   6,010   6,300   6,300   6,300    7,875   9,075    9,075    9,075   9,075
PDAM Jaya Production - Million M3          431       478      488       488     488      181    191    200    200    200        250      288     288      288     288
Bulk Treated Water Purchases - I/s        1,819    2,701    2,684    2,684    2,684    1,634  2,516   2,499   2,499   2,499     185      185      185     185      185
Bulk Treated Water Purchases - Million M3   58        86       85        85       85      52      80     79      79      79       6        6       6        6       6
MARKETING
Tariff Revenues - Million Rp            361,469   474,085  595,459  729,116  837,031
Tariff Revenue Rp/ m3 Sold              1,721.28  1,942.97  2,119.07  2,300.05 2,447.46
Tariff Increase (%)                     12.00%     8.97%    8.72%    8.47%    6.00%/
FINANCIAL
Average Annual Water Charge               1,548     1,652    1,767    1,877    2,007    1,724   1,839   1,963   2,088   2,218    1,371    1,461    1,559    1,651    1,788
Annual Water Charge - Million Rp        324,975   402,978  496,659  595,035  686,316  181,020 226,197 284,635 342,432 385,932  143,955  176,781  212,024 252,603  300,384
Average Tariff in current prices (Rp/m3)  1,721.28  1,942.97  2,119.07  2,300.05 2,447.46
Average tariff increase                 12.00%     8.97%    8.72%    8.47%    6.00%/61
21



22
Table 6A2. Key Indicators for Project Operation Future PDAM Tangerang
Monitoring Indicators, 1998-2002
1998      1999       2000      2001       2002
IDEMANDI
Tangerang Water Production - Million M3/Y       32.3       38.0       44.9      49.2       53.6
Cisadane Bulk -Production - Million M3/Y        56.0       93.3       93.3       93.3      93.3
|Volumne Produced - Million M3/Y                88.3      131.3      138.3      142.5     146.9
% Unac'ted-for water (UfW) incl. Cisadane     41.7%      40.1%      39.1%      38.1%     37.1%
Volume Sold to Tangerang - Million M3           20.1       24.0       28.9      32.1       35.5
Volume Sold to PAM JAYA - Million M3            52.9       87.1       87.1      87.1       87.1
Total volume sold - Million M3/Y                76.1      114.2      119.1     122.3      125.7
MANAGEMENT
# Days Accounts Receivable                        30        30         30         30         30
Number of Employees                              363       365        367        369        371
/% Increase of Employees.                     0.55%      0.55%      0.55%      0.54%     0.54%
umber of Empl/No of Conn x 1000                6.55      5.37       4.48       4.14       3.86
FINANCIAL
Overall Retail Tariff (in current prices, Rp/m3)  875     1,115      1,119      1,485     1,516
Average Retail Tariff Increase                0.90%    27.52%       0.32%     32.72%     2.12%
Bulk Tariff (in current prices)                  450       558        558        558        558
Average Bulk Tariff Increase                   0.0%      24.0%       0.0%       0.0%       0.0%
Working Ratio                                70.49%    47.32%      46.69%    44.93%     45.67%
% Contribution to Investment                 55.99%    28.60%   952.07%       79.48%    55.29%
(W/o Cisadane Production Facility and
Interest Cap. Average of 3 yrs)
% Contribution to Investment- Ave. 3 yrs     55.99%    28.60%    952.07%      79.48%    55.29%
Rate of return based on assets                -6.03%     5.41%      7.12%     10.40%     12.44%
Debt Service Ratio                               2.0        2.7        2.4       2.4        2.5
% Debt on Debt + Equity*                     94.17%     94.34%     93.66%     88.99%    83.61%
* Debt without Cisadane production facility and excluding asset revaluation.



23
Table 7. Studies/Technical Assistance Included in the Project
Tut"~   ~~utn
A. PJSIP (Zones 1,2,4,5) TA - /Supervision of Construction
. Rehabilitation Works.    To help PAM JAYA plan   DGCK/PAM        Satisfactory.
and execute the         JAYA
rehabilitation program.
2. Final Engineering Design of To prepare FEDs TDs for  DGCK/PAM    Satisfactory.
Infill/Extension Works.     infill/extension.       JAYA
3. TA for Final Engineering    Prepare designs and tender  DGCK/PAM    Satisfactory.
Design of Primary Distribution documents.           JAYA
means in Zones 3 and 6.                                                                                l
4. Construction Management  To strengthen the PIU   DGCK/PAM    Satisfactory.
Services                   I _gth__JAYA
B. Institutional Development
I. Institutional Development   To improve PAM JAYA's  PAM          PAM JAYA underwent reorganization in
overall operations.     JAYA/DGCKI  April 1995. Most of the procedures
PUOD          developed by institutional development
and training for the former structure had
not been implemented.
2. Consumer Survey          To improve PAM JAYA's  PAM JAYA    Limited.
knowledge of waler
consumer behavior
3. Training                 To develop PAM JAYA's  PAM             Limited.
in-house training units    JAYA/ DGCK/
PUOD
C. Pejompongan Pipeline
1. Consulting Service for  To support the PIU       PSJ            Completed on 31/12/96. Project suffered
Supervision of Construction of                                     a delay of some 30 months but the
the Pejompengan Pipeline                                           facilities were fully completed. Impact on
operation of the Pejompongan WTP
(mostly savings on chemicals) is still
difficult to assess, because of short period
of observation.
2. Institutional Strengthening   To improve financial  DGWRD/POJ  Satisfactory.
and Management Information   conditions of POJ.
Study
3. Training                 To strengthen the training  DGWRD/POJ  Satisfactory.
unit at POJ with specific
emphasis on training for
O&M of the Pejompengan
Pipeline                 __ __



24
Table 7 (cont'd)
D. Cisadane Treated Water Transmission Main
1. Construction Supervision  To support the PIU       DGCK/    Satisfactory. Completed on 8/15/95.
Services for the Treated Water                        PDAM        Construction suffered a delay of about 20
Transmission Main and PDM.                            Tangerang  months beyond appraisal estimate, mostly
because of slow acquisition of rights of
I____________________ _________ ways and operations started late in 1995.
2. Management Improvement    To improve management   DGCK/    Satisfactory. Completed on 05/01/95.
Study for PDAM Tangerang      organization and capability  PDAM   Impact was positive, but the recent
of PDAM Tangerang.      Tangerang  decision to split PDAM Tangerang in two,
l____________________________                                    may  have a negative impact.
3. Training                   To develop training     PDAM        Satisfactory.
I __________________________    program.              Tangerang                                       l
E. JSSP Extension
1. Consultant Services for   To support the PIU       DGCK        Limited. Project completed on 31/03/95.
Construction and Supervision.                                     The number of residential connections
remained at its 1990 level of about 1000
with growth possibilities limited to Project
area and depending only on new high rise
connections.
2. Institutional Development  To develop BPAL/PDAL   DGCK         Limited. Completed in 12/91.
F. Priority Major Drainage
1. Consulting Services for   To support the PIU during  PPJR/     Satisfactory.
Finalization of Designs,      tendering and execution of  DGWRD
Preparation of Tender Documents the works
and Construction Supervision.                                                                         l
2. Training                   To develop training program PPJR/   Training program was not included
I_________________________                            IDGWRD    because staff have already the knowledge.
G. Jabotabek Water Resources Project
1. Jabotabek Water Resource                           DGWRD    Completed on 01/12/93.
Management Study.
2. Jabotabeck Water Data Center                       DGWRD    Completed on 01/01/93.
3. Consultant Services for    Advisory service for    DGWRD    Completed on 30/09/92. JWRMS'
Jabotabek Water Management    institutional development           findings and recommendations led to the
Services (JWRMS).            and water resources study            substantial ground water abstraction tariff
coordination                        increase in Jakarta, implemented in 1994;
prompted preparation of project that would
disconnect from WTC three rivers in order
to improve raw water quality delivered to
I _______________________     ___________________      ________    various   W TPs.
4. Ground Water Investigation                         DGWRD    Satisfactory. Completed on 11/15/92.
5. Water Quantity and Quality                         DGWRD    Satisfactory. Completed on 03/18/93.
6. Socio-economic and Ground                          DGWRD    Satisfactory. Completed on 08/21/92.
Water Surveys
7. Geotechnical Investigation and                     DGWRD    Satisfactory. Completed on 04/24/93.
Topographical Survey and
Mapping                                                                                               l
9. Jabotabek Institutional and                        DGWRD    Satisfactory. Completed on 09/30/92.
Advisory Services



25
Table 7 (cont'd)
H. IUIDP Studies and Future Project Preparation
1. National Program Preparation   Institutional strengthening in DGCK  Satisfactory.
and Management Assistance for   central govemment,
Urban Development              assistance to programme
preparation and arrangement
& assistance to local
govemments                                                                l
2. CPMO Management            Assistance to project     DGCK        Satisfactory. Completed on 08/27/93.
Information Systems           monitoring in DGCK                                                         l
3. DGCK/DKI Management         Upgrading of project/    DGCK        Satisfactory. Completed on 8/22/93.
Training Project              program development and
L ______________________ _   management
4. Metro and Large Cities IUIDP  Future urban development in DGCK   Bank financed IUIDP projects (Surabaya,
metro and large cities:              Kalimantan, Semarang/Surakarta, Sulawesi
Assistance to PDAM       DGCK        Satisfactory. Completed on 01/06/92.
Surabya for Preparation of
implementation for water
L ______________________  sector (SSUDP)
Kalimantan Urban         DGCK        Satisfactory. Completed on 8/06/94.
Development Project
Support to complete
Appraisal & Preparation for
Loan
Assistance for           DGCK        Satisfactory. Completed on 03/31/98.
implementation oi SSUDP
Preparation for          DGCK        Satisfactory.
implementation Second
Sulawesi (UDP)
5. HRD in the Water Supply                              DGCK        Completed on 01/04196.
Sector (PRMDUs, Gov't of
Netherlands Counterparts, etc.)                                                                          I
6. Planning & Management of    Policy and guidelines    DGCK        Not carried out.
New Large Scale Urban Settlement development; establishment
Developments in Jabotabek Area  of mechanism ancl pilot
application in Jabotabeck
area
7. Development of Private Sector Identify opportunities and   DGCK  Not carried out.
Participation in Jabotabek Urban  the mechanisms for private
Services                      sector participation in
provision of urban services
,particularly in Jabotabek                                                I



26
Table 8A. Project Cost Estimate and Financing
(US $ million)
Original Project Cost Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                                         Local    Foreign          Total    Local    Foreign        Total
PAM JAYA WlSystem Improvements                 57.4        65.1        122.5     66.80       75.64      142.44
Pejompongan Raw Water Pipeline                 21.8        26.2         48.0     25.55       30.72       56.27
Cisadane Treated Water Trans. Main             10.0         5.5          15.5     10.52       5.77       16.29
Jakarta San. Sewerage Ext. Project             10.0         7.6         17.6       9.52       7.19       16.71
Waste Water Disposal (Micro-drainage)           1.3         0.0          1.0       1.11       0.00        1.11
Priority Major Drainage                        13.9         5.9          19.8     16.31       6.93       23.24
Water Resource Management Study                 1.4         5.3          6.6      0.69        2.70        3.39
Miscellaneous Studies                           1.0         2.3          3.3       0.92       2.14        3.05
Overall Project coordination                    1.5         1.5          3.0       1.78       1.65        3.43
Total Base Cost                               118.3       119.4        237.3
Physical contingencies                         14.3        13.3         27.6
Price contingencies                            23.6        18.2         41.8
Total Project Cost                            136.0       150.9        306.9    132.21      132.72      265.93
*Excludes the appraisal cost of PAM JAYA Water System Improvements financed by OECF amounting US$41.5 million
plus contingencies.
Table 8B. Project Financing Plan Summary
(US $ million)
_____________________________________      _ :   lAppraisal                             Actual/estimates
Source of Financing                              Local   Foreign        Total     Local    Foreign        Total
GOI (DKI Jakarta, PAM JAYA, Tangerang)            110.5       0.0       110.5      91.34        0.0       91.34
IBRD                                               61.7     128.3       190.0      41.87     132.72      174.59
Total                             ~ ~~~~172.2  128.3      300.5    133.21       132.72     265.93
* Excluding the contributions of OECF estimated at US$44.7 million and Govemment of Netherlands at US$1.1 million
equivalent.
Table 9. Economic and Financial Evaluation
Estimates at Appraisal         Estimates at Completion*
Water (82% of total project costs)
ERR of water supply                                                  11.7 %**                            11.6%
NPV (Rp. billion)                                                        49.0                              34.0
FIRR of water supply                                                    8.1 %                            10.5%
NPV (Rp. billion)                                                         n.a.                             10.0
Drainage (7% of total project costs)
Drainage/flood control                                            17% to 22%                             59.0%/o
Micro-drainage improvements                                             1590/o
NPV (Rp. billion)                                                         n.a.                            364.0
* For approach used, see Appendix C: Economic Evaluation of Water Supply and Drainage Components
** ERR lowered to 8.6% when excluding savings of boiling costs.



27
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant Present  Description of Covenant        Comments
type      status
Loan         3.03 (a)      10        C    Carry out project implementation Complied with.
I _____       ________    ________        arrangements
3.03 (b)      5        CP   Carry out action program to   (a) PAM JAYA: The contract was
strengthen PAM JAYA, PDAM   terminated in July 1995 soon after the
Tangerang and POJ.           Bank was informed that the consulting
firn had initiated negotiation of a long-
term "cooperation" agreement, because
of conflict of interest; (c) PDAM
Tangerang - complied with. But the
recent decision to split PDAM
Tangerang into two, following the
creation of Kotamadya (municipality)
may affect impact; (c) POJ - the action
plan to improve POJ's accounting and
budgeting procedures and preparation of
financial reports was successfully
l_______ ________                                         implemented in 1994.
3.04 (a)      12        C    Establish PD PAL by April 1,    Perda issued on 26 September 1991.
1991.                        Full establishment on 11 February 1992.
3.04 (b) I    2         C    Allow BPAL to retain revenues   Complied with.
for operational purposes.
3.04 (b) II   2         C    Cause to break-even from March  Complied with.
31, 1991 on.
3.04 (c)      6         C    Ensure satisfactory operations and Complied with.
maintenance of sewerage ponds.
3.05          12        C    Establish JUPCO for overall   Complied with.
I_______  project coordination.
4.01 (b)      I        NC   Cause special account to be    JUPCO Project Account for FY94/95
audited and submitted to Bank    and FY95/96 audited by BPKP not yet
withirt nine months after the end  sent for review.
of each year.
4.01 (b)      I        CD    Cause annual audited accounts for Complied with after delay.
(11)                         PAM JAYA, PDAM Tangerang
and BPA/PDAL to be submitted
to Bank within nine months. After
year-end, start with FY92
(Fy/89/90/91 submission of accts.
l________                   Is 15/15/12 months respectively.
4.01 (b)      I        CP   JUPCO to submit report on      Partially complied with.
(III)                        actions taken to carry out the
auditor's recommendations to
Bank within three months of audit
l __________  ________   ________   _______    com pletion.



28
Table 10 (cont'd)
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present  Description of Covenant         Comments
type      status
4.03 (a)     2        CP   PAM JAYA to review tariffs and  Tariff adjustment due for January 1,
to adjust them by April 1, 1991    1994 effective on July 1, 1994. Tariff
and by January I in each third year adjustment that was due in 1996 was
thereafter.                   postponed until 1998, pending results of
negotiations with the private sector.
4.03 (b)     9         C    Provide to Bank the results of    Complied with.
Review.
4.04 (a)     2        NC    PAM JAYA Debt service coverage Not in compliance.
of 1.5.
4.04 (b)     2        NC    Debt Limitation of 70%.       Not in compliance.
4.05 (a)     2        CP   PAM JAYA net internal cash     Amounted to about 25% in 1993, 17% in
generation not less than 30% of   1994. 32% in 1995; and 295 in 1996.
three year average capital
expenditures (excluding Buaran
II).
4.05 (b)     4        CP   DKI to provide new equity to   Partially complied with.
PAM JAYA, equal to 10% of total
expenditure 1990/96.
4.06 (a)     1         C    PDAM Tangerang to review and  Complied with.
adjust tariffs by January 1993 and
every three years thereafter.
4.06 (b)     9         C    Provide the Bank the result of    Complied with.
review.
4.07 (a)     2         C    PDAM Tangerang debt service    Complied with.
X_______   ________coverage  1.5.
4.07 (b)     2         C    Debt limitation of 70%.       Complied with.
4.08 (a)     2         C    PDAM Tangerang net internal    Tariff adjustment due for January 1,
cash generation not less than 30%  1994 effective on July 1, 1994. Tariff
of annual average of total capital  adjustment that was due for January
expenditures incurred over 3-year 1996 was postponed until 1998.
period (excluding Cisadane)
4.09 (a)     2        CP   Review and adjust tariffs every    Tariff of raw water delivered to PAM
three- years for full cost recovery  JAYA (Pulogadung and Buaran IWPS)
on raw water pipelines.      was adjusted in 1994 to Rp. 25/m3 and
again in April 1997 to Rp. 35/m3 to
cover additional 0 &M costs of the new
Pejompongan raw water facilities; POJ
estimates that if depreciation is taken
into account, both water rates should
reach Rp. 40/m3, Rp. 55/m3 and Rp.
74/m3 for supply to the Buaran,
Pulogadung and Pejompongan WTPS
respectively.



29
Tablle 10 (cont'd)
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present  Description of Covenant            Comments
type      status
4.10          2        CD    DKI Jakarta to review and adjust  New tariff effective on July 1, 1995.
ground water abstraction fee by
April 1, 1990 and every three
yeanr there after.
4.11          4         C    Borrower to provide all financing  Complied with.
for Bluaran II and Cisadane to
extend existing grace period and
accumulation of interest and
comrnitment fees through
l_______            December 31, 2000.
6.01 (a)      3         C    Execution of subsidiary loan    Complied with.
agreements re: DKI Jakarta, PAM
l ____  _____  _____  _____ JAYA and PDAM Tangerang.
6.01 (b)      5         C    Establishment of JUPCO and      Complied with.
L _______  ________    _________  ________   senior positions  filled.
6.02 (a),     4         C    Ratification of the above       Complied with.
(b) &(c)                      subsidiary agreements.
Present Status:                   Covenant type
C = Covenant complied with        I = Account/Audits
CD = Complied with after delay    2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
CP = Complied with partially      3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
NC = Not complied with            4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indi,genous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
1 1 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



30
Table 11. Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 Description and comment on lack of compliance
OD 10.60 Accounting, Financial Reporting, and   4.01 (b): Cause special account to be audited and submitted to
Fuditing                                  Bank within nine months after the end of each year.
JUPCO Project Account for FY94/95 and FY95/96 audited by
BPKP was not sent for review.
Table 12. Bank Resourcestaff Inputs
Staff-week                        Amount
Stages of project cycle                    Actual                         US$ ('000)
Through pre-appraisal                       98.8                             203.2
Appraisal-effectiveness                     54.7                             109.0
Supervision                                 183.5                            363.3
Completion                                   17.5                            40.1
TOTAL                                       354.5                            715.6



31
Table 13. Bank Resources-Missions
Stages of   Month/  No. of  SW  Specialities  Performnance
project cycle Year   persons\  in  represented    ratings           Types of problems
l __________         I        field             IS    DO
Through
Appraisal*                                                                                       l
L________ Nov. 87 3            FA, SE, Ec    =    _=
Feb. 88  6           EE, SE,, TA
(2), WE (2)                                                  l
Jun. 88  6           FA, SE,, Ec
_(2), E, Sc
Aug. 88 1            FA
Appraisal to   Jul. 89  8          FA (2), SE,
Board                              Ec, 0 (2),
ME
Nov. 89 14           FA (3), SE,
EE, TS, Ec
(3), 0 (2),
_______     ______             ME, E  (2)                                                    l
Jul. 90  6      0.0  FA (2), TS, 2     1     Procurement of consultants for PJDIP is
Supervision 1                      E, 0, PO                behind schedule - TOR prepared by PAM
JAYA need to be substantially improved;
DKI Jakarta reluctant to appoint full-time
staff to JUPCO.
Supervision 2  Nov. 90 5      5.6  FA, E, 0 (2), 2    1    Loan effectiveness date has been extended to
SE                     December 31, 1990, however, further
extension may be required for ratification of
SALs by local government assemblies and
obtaining legal opinion.
Mar. 91 3       6.0  0, SE, FA   2     1     DKI action on PAM JAYA tariff adjustment
Supervision 3                                              requested delayed; achievement of break-
even point and establishment of sewerage
enterprise (PDAL) likely to be delayed by
one year; PSJ yet to respond to IBRD letter
concerning pipe material.
Supervision 4  July 91  4     0.0  FA, SE, 0   2    1      Disbursement lag seriously due to previously
(2)                    unresolved procurement issues. BPAL audit
for year ending March 3 1, 1990 overdue.
Mar. 92 4       3.6  FA, SE, Ec, 2    2      Disbursement lag continues to be serious -
Supervision 5                      E                       by about $40 million from appraisal
estimate.
E = Environmental Specialist   FA = Financial Specialist    0 = Operation Officer/Procurement specialist
Ec = Economist              PO = Program Officer      SE = Sanitation Engineer/Water Engineer
EE = Environmental Engineer   PS = Procurement Specialist TS = Training Specialist



32
Table 13 (cont'd)
Stages of   Month/  No. of   SW  Specialties  Performance           Types of problems
project cycle Year   persons\  in  represented    ratings
l __________    _____   I    field              IS    DO
Supervision 6  Oct. 92  3     4.6  FA, SE, E   2    2       Tariff adjustments from PDAM Tangerang
and ground water in Jakarta will be needed
during 1993; water demand in zones 4 and 5
of Jakarta require start of preparation of
Phase II project; and two management action
programs (RKL) are needed in respect of
major drainage component. Improvement
PJSIP construction quality and contract
administration needed; unaccounted for
water higher than expected in some sales.
Supervision 7  Jun. 93  4      10.7  FA, SE (2), 3    2     DKI assembly and MOHA not approved the
E                      new groundwater tariffs as yet; UFW is
increasing partly due to higher water
pressures; procurement is slow; budgeting
needs to be accelerated; slow construction;
PAM JAYA is currently unable to make
30% contribution to construction from
internal cash generation; current projections
indicate at least 50% tariff increase will be
required effective January 1, 1994; three
audit reports are qualified (PAM JAYA for
value of land and GOI equity: PDAM
Tangerang for reconciliation of accounts
receivable, adequacy of provision for the bad
debts, and value of GOI equity; project
laccount for consistency of format).
Supervision 8  Nov. 93 3      0.6  FA, SE (2), 2    2       Ground water tariffs represent about 100%
increase by January 1, 1994; raw water
charge increase from Rp22/m3 to Rp25m3
to coincide with effectiveness of PAM
JAYA's new tariffs.
Supervision 9  Jun. 94 2      4.2  FA, SE      2    2       Physical implementation of the largest
component (PAM JAYA) still lagging
behind; delay in compliance with audit and
cost recovery covenants; project account
audit is expected to be completed by end
June 1994 instead of 12/3/94; PD PAL
(sewerage) audit for 1992 will now be
combined with 1993 audit and completed by
9/30/94; PAM JAYA tariff adjustment has
been delayed from 1/1/94 to 7/1/94; raw
water tariff adjustment has been delayed
from 1/1/94 to 7/1/94; and groundwater
tariff adjustment has been delayed from
4/1/93 to 7/1/94; unaccounted for water will
___________ _  _ need continued action on along-term basis.
E = Environmental Specialist    FA = Financial Specialist    0 = Operation Officer/Procurement specialist
Ec = Economist               PO = Program Officer      SE = Sanitation Engineer/Water Engineer
EE = Environmental Engineer   PS = Procurement Specialist TS = Training Specialist



33
Table 13 (cont'd)
Stages of   Month/  No. of   SW  Speciaeties  Performanc           Types of problems
project cycle Year   persons\  in  represented   e ratings
I        field            IS    DO
Supervision 10 Dec. 94  1      0.9  SE          S    S    All agencies complied with financial
covenants, but in particular the municipal
water utilities remain weak organizations to
address the complex issues of providing a
very large urban area with a reasonable water
supply service at an affordable price.
Supervision 11 Jun. 95  1           SE                     Follow-up.
(limited)                                            I-
Supervision 12 Nov. 95 3      2.9  SE, FA, 0   S    S    Delays in rehabilitation of PAM JAYA water
distribution network zones I and 2 requires a
one year extension of the closing date; a sub-
project of major drainage component
(Sentiong cut-off in Ancon) is now being
proposed to be financed by the on going
OECF loan; financing of the cost overrun
(US$4.0 million short) of Pejompongan Raw
Water Transmission Line; very high price of
piped water in Jakarta (average of
Rpl450/m3 or US$0.65/m3; also very high
tariff of ground water DKI Jakarta creates
collection difficulties; audit of PDAM
Tangerang's account show increased number
of qualifications; unaccounted for water
remains at very high, 52% of PAM JAYA's
production despite intensive rehabilitation
carried out under the project.
Supervision 13 Jun. 96              SE, 0       S    S    Cost-overrun of the Pejompongan Raw Water
transmission line project; official reallocation
and request for extension of loan closing still
not yet received. Tariff of ground water in
DKI Jakarta is so high that it has become
l ________ _______                               _____ almost impossible to collect.
Nov. 96 3        0.0  SE, FA, 0   S    c    Delays in rehabilitation of PAM JAYA water
Supervision 14                                             distribution network in zones 1 & 2 justified a
one year extension of the loan closing date.
No bulk water supply agreement has been
signed between PAM JAYA and PDAM
Tangerang for the supply of the Cisadane
water and the Jatiluhur Authority for the
supply of raw water from the West Tarum
Canal to the Pejompongan treatment plant.
Supervision 15 Mar. 97  1      0.0  SE                     No problems were reported.
Supervision 16 Oct. 97  1      0.0  SE          S    S    Initiated ICR preparation.
Supervision 17 Dec. 97  5           SE, E, FA   S    S    Delays in audits.
(ICR mission)                       (2), 0             _
E = Environmental Specialist    FA = Financial Specialist    0 = Operation Officer/Procurement specialist
Ec = Economist               PO = Program Officer      SE = Sanitation Engineer/Water Engineer
EE  Environmental Engineer   PS = Procurement Specialist TS = Training Specialist



34
Appendice A
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(JUDP II - LOAN 3219 IND)
LAST SUPERVISION and COMPLETION MISSION
(December 1 to 12,1997)
AIDE MEMOIRE
A.    Introduction
1.    A mission composed of Messrs./Mmes. A. Locussol, D. Liu, J. So (EASUR), L. Elvas
and M. Nuch (EACIF) visited Jakarta between November 1 and 12, 1997 to carry out a last
supervision and an implementation completion mission of the Second Jabotabek Urban
Development Project (JUDP II). The mission thanks the various agencies involved in the project
for their cooperation and the courtesies extended.
2.    This aide-memoire summarizes the mission's findings and recommendations. The draft
aide memoire was discussed during a wrap-up meeting chaired by Mr. B. Panudju, Secretary
TKPP on December 11, 1997. Its findings, presented in a format consistent with the Project
Implementation Completion Report (PICR) the Bank will submit to its Board before June 30,
1998, are subject to confirmation by Bank management. Since most agencies were not able to
carefully read the draft PICR, it was agreed that they will send their comments to JUPCO and
TKPP before the end of the year, so that they can be taken into account in the final draft PICR
which will be submitted to the Government for comments not later than March 1998. Mission
members will be available to discuss their findings during their regular visits in Jakarta.
B.    Status of Project at Completion
3.    Loan 3219 IND of US$190 million was approved on June 5, 1990 and became effective
on February 27, 1991. It will close on December 31, 1997 after a one-year extension. The Loan
account will remain open until the end of April 1998 to allow for the processing of disbursement
applications for contracts implemented before end 1997. All physical components of the Project
have been implemented. According to the latest information provided by JUPCO, about US$9.35
million or 5 percent of the Loan amount will remain undisbursed and will have to be canceled.
The main saving comes from the PJSIP component which is scheduled to use only US$98 million
out of its US$107 million allocation.
4.    The following issues still have to be addressed:
(a)    The Bank may have to suspend disbursement until delayed audit reports of
JUPCO's 1994/95 and 1995/96 project accounts, due for December 31, 1995 and
December 31, 1996 respectively are submitted. The audit report for the 1996/97
project account is due for December 31, 1997. According to information



35
provided by JUPCO, project accounts will be submitted again to the auditors in
December 1997, and the audit reports will be forwarded to the Bank in April
1998;
(b)    Despite a clear position expressed during the last two supervision missions
against financing of the construction of sewers in Malakasari from the Loan,
payment under the construction contract has been processed under the SOE
procedure; the Bank may decide to request the Government to refund the
corresponding amount;
(c)    PAM JAYA officially transmitted to the mission a copy of the two "cooperation
agreements" that have been signed with private operators; the Bank will review
them to assess how they affect execution of the Loan; and
(d)    PAM JAYA's debt will be rescheduled by the Ministry of Finance, in order to
limit the required tariff increase to about 12 percent; the mission reminded that
the Bank position should be officially sought if the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(SLA) between MoF and PAM JAYA is to be amended (Loan Agreement:
section 3.01 (c));
(e)    PDAM Tangereang is also negotiating an amendment of its SLA with MoF; the
Bank's position should also be officially sought.
C.    Review of Implementation Performance and Lessons Learned
5.    During the November 1996 supervision mission, all agencies were provided with Bank
procedures to help prepare their contribution to the PICR. To date reports have been received
from JUPCO, PAM JAYA System Improvement Project (PJSIP), Pejompongan Raw Water Line
Project (PRWLP), Cisadane Treated Water Line Project (CTWLP), Ciliwung Cisadane River
Basin Development Project (CCRBDP), Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project (JSSP), micro
dirainage (DPU - DKI Jakarta) and miscellaneous studies (DG Cipta Karya). The report the
labotabek Water Resource Management Study by Directorate General of Water Resource
Development (DGWRD) still has to be submitted. The completion reports submitted generally
include: (a) an assessment of the project objectives, design implementation and operation
experience so far; (b) an evaluation of the implementing agencies and lessons learned; (c) an
assessment of the Bank performance; and (d) views on the operational phase of the Project.
6.    Additional data must be submitted by some agencies so that the final draft PICR can be
issued: (a) PAM JAYA and PDAM Tangerang: audited financial statements for 1990 to 1996,
financial indicators and monitoring data, consistent with audited data, estimates for 1997, and
projections for 1998 to 2002; (b) final figures on resettlement for the PJSIP and PRWLP
components; and (c) increase in land value in the area served by CCRBDP, to estimate the rate of
return of this latter component. Mr. Nuch (EACIF) will regularly contact the various agencies if
such data are not received before the end of 1997.
7.    The mission met with representatives of the two private operators who should take over
]PAM JAYA's operations early in 1998 to seek their views on achievement of the Project, in
particular on the quality of design and construction of the various assets and management tools
financed by the Project. A detailed inventory of PAM JAYA's assets will be carried during the



36
first 12 months of their contracts and a position would be expressed at that time. Digitized
mapping and mathematical models of the distribution network developed by the Project are
deemed valuable management tools by the operators, at least for the initial years of their activity.
8.    A representative of the OECF financed Project Management Unit attended meetings with
PJSIP and informed the mission of the extension of the closing date of the Loan until mid-1998
and of the various actions to be carried out before that date, in particular with regards to the
rehabilitation of the elementary cells in zones 3 and 6.
D.    Project Operational Plan
9.    The "cooperation" agreements signed by PAM  JAYA with two private operators
constitute the "operational plan" of the water supply service in Jakarta. They include a series of
physical performance targets (number of connections, UfW, volume of water sold, water
quality...) which constitute PAM JAYA's future operational plan (annex 1). Also, the contracts
included detailed financial statements, including a consolidated statement, that constitute PAM
JAYA's financial forecast. These figures will be attached in the final PICR. In addition, the two
operators will report on raw water quality in WTC, treated water quality at the WTPs and treated
water quality and water pressure in various locations of the distribution networks. Also, the
operators will report on the number and nature of complaints by customers and on groundwater
monitoring.
10.   For JSSP, the mission proposed that the main indicators to be monitored be: number of
connections; floor surface of building serviced; waste water flow entering the Setiabudi ponds;
waste water quality at the inlet and outlet of the Setiabudi ponds and pollution load removed;
operating expenses; manpower expenses.
n:\raja\icrl I .doc
June 12, 1998



37
Appendice A
Annex 1
PAM JAYA Water Supply Operations
Selected Monitoring Indicators
(from the Cooperation Agreements with PT GDS and PT KPA)
1997     1998      1999    2000   2001   2002
Production Capacity
West                     m3/s    5.22       5.71     6.01     6.30    6.30   6.30
East                     m3/s    7.98       8.34      8.53    8.53    8.53   8.53
Total                    m3/s   13.20      14.05     14.54    14.83   14.83   14.83
Bulk Water Purchase       m3/s    1.82       2.16      3.06    3.06    3.06   3.06
Total Product. Capacity   m3/s   15.02    16.21    17.60    17.89   17.89  17.89
U1w
West                        %     53%       50%      47%      42%     38%    35%
East                        %               50%      47%      42%     38%    35%
Total                       %               50%      47%      42%     38%    35%
Water Sold
West                     m3/s                105      123      145     164    174
East                     m3/s                105      121      136     153    168
Total                    m3/s    194        210       244     281      317    342
Connections (total)
West                     000'             219.07   290.17  342.28   369.4 395.52
East                      000'            251.61   281.61   311.61  326.61 361.61
Total                     000'  447.75   470.68   571.78  653.89  696.01 757.13
Population Served
West                   million    1,920    2,279    2,877   3,321   3,562  3,797
East                   million   2,185    2,338    2,566   2,794   2,908  3,174
Total                  million   4,105    4,617    5,443   6,115   6,470  6,971
Total Population
'West                  million   5,054    5,132    5,216    5,302   5,382  5,459
lEast                  million   4.180    4,250    4,321    4,394   4,465  4,536
Total                  million   9.,234    9,382    9,537   9,696   9,847  9,995
Service Ratio
West                        %     38%       44%      55%      63%     66%    70%
East                        %     52%       55%      59%      64%     65%    70%
Total                       %     44%      49%       57%     63%      66%    70%



38
Appendice B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Republic of Indonesia
JABOTABEK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN No.3219-IND
JUDP II: WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
BORROWER PERSPECTIVE OF THE PROJECT
JUDP II
Edited March 1998
The Government Contribution for the ICR



39
Borrower Perspective to the Project
Loan No. 3219-IND - JUDP II
List of contents
Preface
Part 1: Introduction                                          i
Main Report                                             1
A. Project objective                                    1
B. Achievement of Project objective                     1
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                  2
D. Project Sustainability                               8
E. Bank Performance                                     9
F. Borrower Performance                                 9
G. Assessment of Outcome                                10
H. Future Operation                                     10
l. Key Lessons learned                                  I I
Part 2: Statistical Annexes
Disbursement cuirve
Loan saving
PDAM Financial Statement
Appendix: Map
(Judp27.doc: OSA)
NOTE: The above is the table of contents of the Government contribution the ICR,
The full text is sent to project file along with the contributions of the implementing
agencies.



40
Borrowers Perspective to the
Project loan no321S-lOJD *JUDP.lI
Preface
This is the borrowers perspective evaluation report for the project loan no.3219-1NO-JUDP-II for
which a loan of USO 190 million equivalent was approved on 6 July 1990 and made effective on 21
February 1991.
The loan was closed on 31 December 1997 instead of the original closing date 31 December 1996,
and the last disbursement took place on 31 December 1997 at which time a balance of US3  9.363
million should be cancelled.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the OECF loan in an amount of Japanesse yen 446,000
to assist in financing part of the distribution zone 3-6 POAM Jaya water supply system improvement
and NLG 7,300,000 of Outch guilder in financing a portion of part of Jabotabek Water Resources
Management Study (JWRMS). Within the current implementation Oucth grants has been terminated
by Gal subsequently the project financing has replaced lo IBRO loan.
The evaluation report was prepared by the borrower (Goll on the basis of the available material in the
projects flils, likewise its as the borrowers contribution to the Bank's ICR.
IJUDOP2I.AQ5



41
Part 1
Main Report



42
Republic of Indonesia
Jabotabek Urban Development Project
Loan no.3219-IND; JUDP-l1
Borrower Perspective of the Project JUDP-I1
Evaluation Report
1. Introduction
Since 1980 the Government of Republic of Indonesia have developed the 'Integrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Plan' (IUIOP), grouping under a single umbrella ie: urban transport, water supply; drainage,
waste water disposal, solid waste, flood control, sewerage and sanitation and Karnpung Improvement
Project (KIP).
The program have started with stressed to the big cities as the first priority in the beginning and then
continued to the secondary cities such as the regional capital city, The metro city of DKI Jakarta and its
boundaries called as Jabotabek have startad this program since 1988. Due to tha size of Jabotabek is the
large region, therefore it was devided in to three l3) activities la JUDP-1 concern to the urban transport
p(oject started in 1988, then in 1990 it was continued to JUlDP-l which concern to water supply and
sanitation and JUDP-I1 for the Kampung Improvement Project.
JUDP-1 have been completed on end of March 1997 after two (2) tines or 18 months extention time; JUOP
11 have been completed in end of December 1997 after I (one) year axtention and JUOP-III have two
times or 32 months extention time; accordingly it should complete by end of June 1999.
This report prepared in accordance to the 'Bank Policy' for evaluaton of the projects out come.whether
the project has run as the propose target plan mentioned in staff appraisal report estination (SAR
no.8339-INO dated May 10, 1990), and to assess what is necessary to learn for the future project.
A. StatementJEvaluation of objective
2. Project objective
Project objective and scope of project were described in Staff Appraisal Report ISAR) no. 8339-IND edited
May 10, 1990. The main objective of the project were developed and implement a coordinated program
of physical investment, technical assistance and poficies for urban water supply; waste water disposal,
drainage; water resources and quality managemenL



43
3. Project component
Project component comprises:
li) Water supply group consist of:
- PJSIPIPAM DKI Jakarta
- Cisadane Water Supply Project (CS WSP - PAM Tangerang)
* Citarum River Basin Development Project (CRSDP OGWRO)
(ii) Flood control and Sanitation grou;p consist of:
* Ciliwung Cisadane River Basin Development Ptoject (CCRBDP - OGWRD)
* Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitalion PFroject (ext.) (JSSP- DGCK)
Micro drainage project (DPU- OKI Jakarta)
(iii) Water Management Studies and rechnical Assistance group
* Water Supply Management Studies, (Binagram - DGCK)
Jabotabek Water Resources Manaigement Study (JWRMS - DGCKJ
Overall Coordination Project Of fice (JUPCO - Bappeda DKI)
The project outcomes have been described on1 the following paragraphs
B. Achievement of-Objecive
4. Jakarta Water Supply Sector
The Jakarta Water Supply Sector consists of PJSIP, CRBDP and PDAM Tangetang. in which CRBDP was
duties to provide the raw water supply &2 mOlsec capacity to Pejompongan WTP and CSWSP (PAM
Tangerang) provided the drinking water supply 2.8 m'lsec capacity to the R5 Distribution Center located
at Lebak Bulus Area.
These projecis have been fully complleted, which the discharges target planned could be reached.
evenihought the project completion has been delayed for several months or about two years of the
targeted schedule. This may to influence the financial statement of the companies either or Economic
sate of returns (ERR) of the projects.
5. PAM Jaya System Improvement Project IPJSIP)
PJSIP * PAM Jaya is the biggest compcinent in JUDP-II, with USD 107 M 156.3%) of USO 190 total loan
no.3219-INO JUOP-I1.
PJSIP is the large project within JUOPI'l,  therefore it was devided into two stages ie. PJSIP 1" stago
financing by both IBRO and OECF whichl was inplemented under JUOP-II and PJSIP Z' stage which now
is under project preparation between PAM Jaya and the privat operator.
WtJOZ4 WacO 541



44
The main objective of PJSIP 1' stage were:
*   to mainiain the pipe-laying rehabilitation works to reduce 51% UFW in 1980 instead of 43% 1997.
- to implement the distribution pipe extension to increase 49% of tolal population seived in 1997 instead of
30% in 1989.
*   to increase the potential employment of the Human Resources, in Management and Technical ability.
*   to develope the new costumer at the West Jakarta Region by supply of 2.800 llsec drinking water
distributied from POAM Tangerang
-to extend the primary distribution system at zones 1,2.4,5 to increase of water supply and pressure water
in tertiary distribution pipe and to develope the new customers in zone 3,6 east of Jakarta by OECF
parallel loan.
*   to increase of the employment ability to maintain of the project administration execution.
During 7 years project execution in PJSIP. finally have resulted the success, limited and failure area as
described below:
Success area:
fi)  PAM Jaya own water production capacity has increased to 408 million mn 1997 instead of 263 nmllion mz
in i 990. This is higher 120.35%) than SAR estimate 339 rnillion m' in 1997.
(1i) House connection has increased to 448.000 HC in 1997 instead of 228,000 HC in 1990. This was 7.6%
higher than SAR estimate 414,000 HO in 1997.
Iiii) The conneclion density was increased to 75 per km pipe lengths in 1997. instead of 62 per km pipe
length in 1990. Population served has increased to 47% in 1997, instead of 35.4% in 1990.
.iv) Employment density has increased to 6.8 employees per 1000 NC in 1997 instead of 9.4 employees per
1000 HC in 1990. This was 14% better than SAR estimate 7.9 employees per 1000 HC in 1997.
(v) The audit reports now has no any Qualification; and other's project reports; billing issuance has also been
expedited.
Limited success:
Ii) The Kalimalang Raw Waler quality has insignificant improve due to at recently the raw water has been
poluted by determination the waste water flooding from some heavy factories, which located at the up
stream of KeraWang area.
(ii) The water pressure in distribution pipe at some areas has insignificant improve by this project
(iii) Ground waler supply was insignificant reduced owing to PAM Jaya could not be garranted the amounting
of water supply to the factories and large customers; the water tariff is also not competitive yet to the
piped water and also increasing of 4.9 million people in 1997 instead of 4.3 people in 1990, could not
served yet.
(iv) PAM Jaya financial statement has indicated insignificant improved especially in revenues, water
production, current ratio. contribution to investment, OM cost accordingly PAM Jaya to date may has
suffered a difficulties to financing the project.
AAiDPtaec.54



45
Failure area:
(i)  The UFW increased to 56% in 1997 instead of 53% in 1990, while SAR estimate to 43% in 1997. This is
the mayor failure of PJSIP. This targst is not reached due 1o the pipes rehabilitation works has done only
at a small parts of served area and administration losses may as a dominant factor. Therefore the
reducing of UFW program should make more intensive in the future.
fi) Public Hydrant has decreased to 1500 units in 1997 instead of 2000 units in 1990. This was a lemon
program because 2800 units planned to be built during PJSIP 1I stage period, must be canceled, due to
no one of suitable new location has founded by PAM Jaya, whereas is about 6000 units of existing Public
Hydrants have resorted been comedown caLised of reformation of existing area which was outside control
by PAM Jaya.
Public Hydrant development is one of the most important Gol's policy to solve the water supply problem
for the low income groupislump area, in which as the 'social cared program ' to the low level community.
6. Cisadane Serpong Water Supply Project (CSWSP) - PDAM Tangerang
This project has prepared to support the P.ISIP in a duty to supply 2800 llsec drenking water, take from
Cisadane Water Treatment Plant PDAMi Tangetang, distributed via transmission main pipe (steel pipe)
1500 mm diameter to R5 Distribution Center at Lebak Bulus area south of Jakarta as of PAM DKI Jaya
own facilities. Cisadane WTP which constructed under French Protocol loan has been fully completed on
1992 but commissioning work has not done yet. The WTP commissioning work has done together with
transmission main pipe on December 1996, accordingly this project has suffered delay for 20 monihs.
The imfact of the delays, has burdened the tevenues and the POAM activities; furthermore the water
price and an amounting schedule of bulk water supply with PAM DKI Jaya is also not satlsfied, likewise
1800 iJsec idle capacity would rise during 1997 to 1999, then a complict of interest between both
Municipal and Tangerang Regency Government concerning 'serviced area', should more burden PDAM
Tangerang financial. The problem solving sliould requires prudence of related dispute agencies, therefore a
.merge system' between two PDAM may could be recommended.
Conclusion
The project has successful lo be completed, however non lechnical issues may foul up PDAM Tangerang
financial.
7. Citarum River Basin Development Project (CRBDP) - DGWRD
This is also a supplement project to support PJSIP with duty to deliver 6.2 m'Isec of Kalimalang Raw
Water (originally come from Jatiluhur Reservoir) to Pejompongan Water Treatment Plant which
transferred via twin concrele pipes 1600 mm diameter with 11.3 km length.
MAJOPZI.*c SA



46
This project has been fully completed by mid of March 1997 with has suffered 795 days or 26.5 months
delay from the original contract completion date in which they had run into a difficulty on cost over run
amounting to USD 4.2 million (10% ) approximately. This has been taken mayarly from JSSP and
another's loan saving of JUDP-1I component.
The delays of completion work, made burden to POJ financial and moreover Raw Water tariff was
inadequated Rp 35Im' in 1997 instead of Rp 251m3 in 1994 (or 2% of average sold price PAM Jaya),
whereas the Raw Water Tariff calculation still based on 0 & M cost only, this may against to SAR which
recommended to 'full cost recovery' calculation.
The following table shown the comparison between P0J Raw Water tariff with average sold price of PAM
Jaya.
Water Tariff (Rp)
Year        POJ                  Average                  (2:5)         Remarks
Raw Water    1%)        drinking       1%)      100%
Water Sold.               (%)
(PAM Jaya)
1.          2         3            4            5         6               7
1991        22                    718                      3%        Raw water tarift
1992        25          12%      1197            67,6      2%        Average was 2.45%
of the average sold
1997        35          40%      1491            25,3      2,35%     price PAM Jaya
Mean        27.3        26%      1135            46%       2.45%
WOU4.cosJJ



47
This figures has shown a big differ striking with average sold price PAM Jaya, therefore POJ
should have difficulties on the future to fin.ancing of their operation; if the tariff is not stand on a
reasonable price.
It also arose on POAM Tangerang drinking water supply which paid Rp 450Jm3J (or 40% of average
waler sold price) by PAM OKI with inconvinient a bulk water supply schedule.
These price, my as reflected of PAM Jaya business tact to compensate of their difficulties to
reduce of un accounted for waler (UFW) which now stand on 56%.
The Institutional Management and Training in PDJ staff have resulted a restructure organization on
the middle manager level, to reduce a number of employees; financial-accouniing system
improvement; Management Information System (MIS). POJ now has being changed their policy to
'profit making' neither-nor 'non profit making'.
Flood Control and Sanitation group
8. Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project Extension (JSSP Ext.
Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project lJSSP) aimed ID continue their remaining program on the
prior JSSP IJSSP phase 1) and to develop of the new program of the sewerage such as Low Cost
Se.wer Project which was clarified as a 'pilot project' who financing by 'SOE' procedure.
JSSP has maintained 40 packages, in which all of contracts packages have been completed in on
original time schedule.
Nevertheless a pilot project low cost sewer demo package has failured to seek the Bank's
clearance, due to no agreement could be reached on a design, implementation and pricing strategy
that should have involved the household targeled for connection; accordingly the Bank's may be
refused to finance that piot project. JSS? has been implemented that project, while the Bank's
clearance has not issued yet. The bottom problem was the Banks did not satisfied to JSSP
perfDrmance, because JSSP has not submitted a sufficient proposal in accordance to community
willingness survey; house connection cost; schedule of HC Installation and more over the detailed
design was not sufficient with the Banks requirement.
Mostly all of JSSP objectives have been achieved, except the Low Cost Sewer package and the
Training of PD PAL Jaya stalfs which was dropped out by the project, and JSSPs 1" stage assets
who would be transferred to PD PAL OKI Jaya as Central Government equity, it turn out could not
be done entirely;
The failure area of JSSP are summarized below
(il   The Bank's may refused to financing a pilot project LCS built in Malakasari a lower middle
income neighborhood.
(ii)   During 5 year period of JUDP-Il implementation. a transfer of JSSP 1" phase assets could
not rea'ized yet, nevertheless a small parts of I' step amounting to Rp 5,7 million has been
transferred on mid September 1997.
(iii) Training for PO PAL staff was canceled.



48
Concluslon of JSSP Assessment and Remedial Action will be taken
(i)   The BOO  effluent of Setiabudi ponds has been reduced to 30 ppm instead of 300 ppm as
inffluent
(ii)   All of JSSP objective for drainage and sewer constructions have been achieved excepts as above
mentioned.
(iii)  PO PAL Jaya has been operated the sewerage system and has achieved an  increase of a
number of costumers in equivalent to the building squarp meter (m?)
(iv)  PD PAL Jaya has increased the revenues and surplus on 0 & M parameter budget; then at
present is preparing for the role of full cost recovery'.
(v)   Future remedial action to be taken are to improve the Project Management personels in order
more familiar to maintain the foreign loan.
9. Cisadane Ciliwung River Basin Develoment Project (CCRBDP-DGWRD)
This project aimed to control the flooding and inundation in whole OKI Jakarta project area.
CCRBOP as the PIU has been successed to maintain 13 contracts packages under the loan IBRD
JUDP-11; in which the parallel OECF loan is also implemented at the same location such as Sentiong
Cut of Channels package and at different locations which aimed to support the entire programes of
DKI Jaya flood control. Insignificant problem arose to maintain this project but generally this
project has assessed quite satisfactory.
The benefit of this project have resulted 7520 Ha existing of inundation area, now could be
drainaged or free from inundation and or flooding impact.
10. Micro drainage DPU-DKI
Micro drainage is part of PJSIP program, which aimed to drain the inundation caused of Public
Hydrant.
This is also a pilot project for sanitation improvement, in which DPU-DKI as the PIU have 12
packages of civil works under JUDP-11 * IBRO funds; and several packages under OECF loan.
All of packages have been completed in on time with the construction quality are quite
satisfactory.
In the future this project will be continued with the simillar project by mutual agreements among
others DPU DKI, PAM Jaya and PO PAL DKI Jaya.
11. Technical Assistance group
The technical assistance group comprises of miscellaneous study (water supply * DGCK),
Jabotabek Water Resources Management Study IJWRMS - DGWRO) and Jabotabek Urban
Development Project Coordination Office (JUPCO - Bappeda DKI).
Generally the International and NYational consultants performance were satisfactory, included
consultant's products assessed as, quite interested and able to follow up.
The JWRM Study aimed to investigate the Jabotabek Ground Water potential and the arrangement
conlrol. The study have been resulted some recommendations to establish the policy and sirategy
how to manage the ground water on the future.
(O2KW O Si0JJ



49
Ptesently the DGWRD has been followecl up the recommendation to reached a new policy of
ground waxer abstraction,
The miscellaneous study of DGCK is also prepare a new polcy in drinking water supply
management related to privat sector parlicipation. The privat sector now has proactive
participated in the several PDAMs among others PAM OKI, Tangerang, Bekasi, POJ. Medan and
Surabaya.
The overall project coordinalion office as maintain through roles of JUPCO in JUDP, have an
interesting experiences as a single windovos 'among other's' agencies, Gol and the Bank, which
turned out the project implementation and disbursement could be expedited and monitored; as well
as procurement and the problem solving. Its arose an advantage to the provincial Government to
control in outflow investment, done by the project implementation in their area.
The JUPCOs model may could develop in anothers province, now Bali and East Java mainting their
project simillar with JUPCOs model.
C. Mayor affecting of the Project
12. factor outside of Government
land acquisition problem is one of a factor outside of Gol; the land pricing which increase
spectaculer is not to go on this project. The very high increasing of land prices occured on a small
parts of the transmission main pipe at !?DAM Tangerang components, because of a delays of
payment to the land owner due to the limited budget available at that time. Resettlement problem
has not to become of because land acquisition system,- is not to move the land owner, however
this model simillar to bought a 'permit' for pipe-laying installation. Large varianis of USD
exchange rates is the one of the factor out side of Gol.
13. Factor subject to Government control
The Tangerang Municipal Government stance to establish the New PDAM may affect
implemen.taion cf the management and operation improvement program.
The West Java Provincial Government should take a better with the sweet to solve that matter,
otherwise may recommend to merge a joint operation between two disputes PDAM.
14. Internal Government Project
Increasing of 200 packages in PJSIP irstead of 64 packages as original, due to splitting of
combined civil work of pipe laying work and supply work; nevertheless the supply packages has
also splited into smaller packages. This aimed to meet with a better performance of contractor
and, to allow a more fair distribution opportunity job.
The cost over run in CRBOP, indicated that a lack of control to the budget allocation by the project
management, during cn the procurement step.
The tight budget policy should sirengihen in the future.



50
D. Project Sustainability
15. Sustainability of the project outcomes depends on continued in the management and operation of
the water system. particularly in an expansion of production capacity and distribution to increase
of population served and reducing of UFW.
The waler supply sector project is likely to be sustainable, likewise for sewerage enterprises such
as PD PAL Jaya. A joint operation between PAM Jaya-PDAM Tangerang with several privals
sectors, presently is on going operation, while POJ PAM Bekasi is also under preparation for a
joint operation with the privat sector.
The prival operator should achieve more efficient gains of operation and maintenance cosL and
this should indicate that the water tariff will decrease significant. If the water tariff trend to
increase: it mean that the privat suctor joint operation is failure.
Sustainability of the flood control and drainage component is likely, even if rehabilitation activities
such as dredging of major canals; and storm drainage reservoir are mostly deferred maintenance
that should finance by the routine budget rather than by investment budget.
E. Bank's Performance
16. The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision was
satisfactory.
The project has noted that Banks procedures were considered to complex and take more iimes
consuming by the borrower.
Delegation of responsibility for small ICS procurement to RSI to more expedite the approval
process, may could considere by the Bank.
F. Borrower Performance
17. The whole physical project component and loan covenants have been fully implemented; whose
main objective have aLso been achieved, although it has arose significant delay in the project
completion time.
Generally the borrower performance was satisfactory.
The issues of disputes concerning PDAM Tangerang will be reached soon a final solution, whose
may recommend a merge or joint operation system between two POAM which was occured with
PDAM Bekasi as well as.
The transfer of assets of PD PAL Jaya could be expedited following the 1" stage of PD PAL
transfer of assets has been completed.
During project implementation, the projects component PJSIP, CRBDP, CCRBDP, DGWRD DPU-
OKI very cooperative with the Bank's supervision mission, while JSSP, PAM Tangerang,
Miscellaneous Study component was lair.
The upper coordination level such as TKPP, DitTua, Bappenas have quick responsed to the projects
problem solving.



51
G. Assessment of Outcome
18. Overall projects outcomes could be assessed as satisfactory, notwilhstanding some delays of the
project component were occurred in which its may be burdened to the enterprises financial
condition.
The projects has been achieved their main objectives as targeted in SAR such as physical, rinancial
and management strengthening in whicl privatization in PDAM Jaya, PDAM Tangerang operation,
an even parallel to the project, maybe as advantage to achieve a goal in the future developmenL
The shortcoming of the projects objective are:
li) Failured to reduce of UFW. fair quality at some pipes-laying construction and inefficiency work in
PJSIPIPAM Jaya may be caused to higher of 0 & M cost then will impact to the water tariff
pricing. The privat operator should avoid to increase the water tariff without unreseanable
justification, furthermore if privat operator failure to increase of an efficiency.
(ii) To drop out of PD PAL Jaya training staff, posiphone of transfer of assets to PO PAL Jaya and
poor implementation arrangement on the LCSDP in JSSP component; is one of an inconvenient
condition in JUDP-I1.
(iii) The 'cost over run' in CRBDP, is also an unadvantage to this project due to limited budget control
by. project management during procurement.
These matters was highlighted to improve in the future.
H. Future Operation
I S. Jakarta Water Supply Sector
Under rooperation agreement' in February 1996 the two privat consortia had fully responsible to
manage both of PAM Jaya and POAM Tangerang, included to financing, operating and mainlening,
of the works and also bill collecting, whereas the both POAM functions are as the owner of the
existing. and the future assets once the privat operator fully depreciated. Beside that the PDJ
envisage the possibiiity to transfet of 0 & M activities to the privat sctor. later to joint operation
water supply under a 'cooperation agreement'.
20. Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project
At the time being PD PAL Jaya is also looking a possibility to joint operation with prival sectors
for the future development under a rnutval cooperation agreement.
21. Jakarta flood Control and Micro drainage
Mtostly on the mayor drainage facilities availability by the central Government Projects ( CCRBDP)
have been transiferted to Government of OKI Jakarta for further extended and operated.
Loan saving no.3246-IND; JUOP.11I hiave been used to financing rehabilitation a few of large
pumping stalion for DKI Jaya flood control, which now is implementing by DPU-DKI as the PIU.
No agreement has been reached so far on the flood control investment program on east Jakarta
Region in which would require a mayor land acquisition.



52
22. JWRMS, Water Supply Study and JUPCO
The Jakarta water resources management recommendation is on going preparation for inssuance
of the new strategy and policy of the groundwater management, as well as for water supply
management.
Project coordinition system such as JUPCO's model; may applicate to be implemented in another
provinces.
1. Key Leason Learned
23. Physical Implementation
The main lesson learned are:
(i) Completion delay
The bottom problem of the completion delays mayorly on land acquistion, procurement,
implementation permit (digging. city regulation changes, budget available). Appropriately these
factors could be mitigated before loan agreement signed. Tender document, included detailed
design should complete and ready to tender and as well as for land acquisition. Digging permit
may noted lo quality of construction must comply with the technical specification, however in
such case a priority permit may consider to issue.
Cost over run and Gal portion need more priority ro.put in AP8NIAPBD. Any changes of DPU-
DKI prodence such as did not allow for several mounth's for pipes-laying construction on the
new road financing under the loan (IBRD). should be avoided. The coordination work Inter
agencies such as synchronization work will make more effective.
24. Financial
Privat sector participation for PDAM should make more efficient to the management; therefore
on the future operation the water tariff may significant reduce.
UFW, ground water abstraction, production capacity, increasing of water supply, drinking
water quality. revenues should more improve by them, while the entire expences component
make more efficient and fully transparant control.
The privat operator annual audit should carry out by independent auditor both local and
international auditors.
The project cost should make more strickly control by related agencies, internal controlers, to
avoid a wasteful budget, in which will caused high cost product.
Financial projection should prepare more objeclive and reseonable parameters to avoid a bigger
deviation; this may a just every 3-5 year.
The failure of outcoming of an efficiency, do not caused to burden by direct transferred to
costumer via tariff increasing. therefore a controling to each efficiency parameter should be
done strickly and continuesly.
/JJOfld.#cD5sE



53
Appendice C
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE COMPONENTS
Economic Analysis of Water Supply Components
As part of the Project implementation review, an economic evaluation was carried out for
the three completed water supply components, including PAM JAYA System Improvement
Project (PJSIP), Pejompongan Raw Wal:er Line Project (PRWLP), and Cisdane Treated Water
Line Project (CTWLP). Together, these components account for about 82 percent of the total
]?roject costs.
The benefits of these components can be categorized as: (a) cost savings as a result of
switching sources of water use from wellls, vendors, etc. to household connections; (b) additional
benefits to consumers due to increased water consumption; and (c) health-related benefits due to
improved water quality. In principle, these benefits together should be compared with the costs
of the investments to determine whether the investments are economically justified. In practice,
because the health-related benefits are very difficult to quantify, only the benefits of types (a) and
(b) are estimated.
The "with project" and "without project " scenarios were developed to determine the
incremental benefits and costs of water consumption as result of the implemented water supply
components. The "with project" scenario includes the three components: PJSIP, PRWLP, and
CTWLP. The components were evaluated as a whole because two pipelines were installed under
PRWLP and CTWLP that supply improved quality bulk water to the PAM JAYA system.
Information on investment and O&M costs, including land acquisition, technical assistance and
administration costs, implementation periods, number of connections, and volume of water sold
was gathered from the project implementation agency.
The "without project" scenario includes non-connected households obtaining water from
vendors, public hydrants, wells, rain, etc., and non-residential consumers obtaining water mostly
from wells. Information on investmenit and O&M costs and consumption of these alternative
sources of water was assembled from existing water use surveys and the implementing agency.
Information on external environmental costs of abstracting ground water was also obtained from
the Jabotabek Water Resources Management Study, which was financed by JUDP II.
The economic analysis estimates that the cost savings as a result of switching sources of
water use from wells, vendors, etc. to house connections amount to Rp236 billion (all values are
expressed in 1991 price). The avoided costs of abstracting ground water were included. The
SAR had expected that boiling cost savings would result from improved water quality. Since
households continue to boil piped water, boiling cost savings were not considered in the current
analysis.
The additional benefits due to increased water consumption were estimated to be Rp93
billion. These benefits were considered accruing mostly to residential customers.



54
The total benefits are therefore Rp329 billion. After deducting the costs of investments
of Rp.295 billion, the water supply components, post implementation, are estimated to generate a
net present value (NPV) of Rp34 billion for the society, with an economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) of 11.6 percent. The investments are thus considered economically justified.
A financial analysis was also carried out for the three water supply components. The
objective was to determine whether these investments under the current tariff charges would
provide a net financial gain or loss. The incremental tariff revenues and connection fees derived
from the new connections were compared with the investment and O&M costs. The analysis
shows that the investments would create an NPV of RplO billion and a financial rate of return
(FIRR) of 10.5 percent. This means that the net result of these investments is positive financially.
As a comparison, the economic analyses that were carried out at project appraisal
estimated that the project would have a rate of return of 11.7 percent. This included savings of
boiling costs as it was assumed at the time that the practice of boiling water would be gradually
eliminated. If this savings were not included, the estimated return at appraisal would be lowered
to 8.6 percent.
Economic Analysis of Drainage Component
The drainage works carried out under the project were mostly rehabilitation. The total
costs account for about 7 percent of the total investments.
An economic analysis was carried out for this component as part of the project
implementation review. A small survey of land values was conducted and land rental value
increases were used as a measure of the benefits from the completed drainage works. The
analysis shows that this component has generated NPV of Rp364 billion and a return of 59
percent.
At project appraisal, two economic analyses were carried for this component. One was
based on assessments of avoided property damages. It estimated that the rate of return would be
at 17 percent to 22 percent. The other analysis was based on a small survey of a low income and
high density area. This gave an estimated return of 159 percent.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21614
106'30'                                                  107 00O
J4BOTABEK AREA
TANCOFRANG                     JAKARBA
Pn(~~rnpangen                   BEKASI
_     G         Primc0 y Pipelines                            LU HtAR                                                                                                                                  \
AMs &
POW~ RPLANT
106u130'                              T. Bo-d-g          107'\0'
INDONESA I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B"Ii
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (JUDP II)
PDAM JAYA SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (PJSIP)T.  -
EXISTING         FUTURE         PROPOSED
-            -        ~~~~~Pninrany Pipelin-
*    WoIen Trea.tmetPat                                                       epn
*         *         ~~~~~F.ture Distriution Center.Ciaen
Mini Plants                                     Intake Punping Sttian      Woler Tnmnnt Plant
(under onnstruotion)     (under connitnudctiani/                                                       /        
Ecnk Financed  oone of Distributin Syslenr
Water Supply Zone Roundarien
D.K.I. Boundary                                                                  ;                                                                 Bq.
_____  Roads
Rajlrood-
0           2          4           6           8          10
KILOMETERS
APRIL 1990



IBRD 21675
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
0                                         L
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EO
SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (JUDP 11)
SEWERAGE
Se-verge Wodks.
-      JSSP In Pletdess
-      JUDP ItP,.poed Prejed
5 Knko S-  P-epien SlfiN e
--Kelurohon Ecuederies                                                         l   l                        1
. - ~~~~~-   Keneeteem Beoendanes                                                                                      RO J D.T KREA     Z
a so          loo            50o   200                                                                                         0    
55555,55555555,55551555555-55555.55555555.                                                                         To  T BANDUNG 
MARCH 1 990



IBRD 22039
CNTRUCTION
lAVA     SEA         ~~OF PAPA NGGO
DRJN (W.SUINTR
Wt~~~~~~~O
,,~~~~REGN [p                                                                              EXC VAT/O
PLIIT RESERVOIR
NO't REHA BIL f 7- Tiksa                                                 So 1    T
fEXC'AVI 7TiON OF
PARK/N,1 CANAL,
KJELAKrENG,
K .DLIR AND
REHA6iL17ATION R                                                                                                        II
OF PLIJIT
Iz
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~T   oo Ra   N
0       2       4       6        8       10                                           INDONESIA
I  I    I    I    I    i                               SECOND JABOTABEK URBAN DEVELOPMENT
KILOMETERS
PROJECT (JUDP 11)
DRAINAGE
h oanThb din,PoTi b,,kd 55   e 5 5  ndgUsS               *h * *h 0**   *  hrain
,  C&  abofnytWe>z/l/dr* Ztt/t ?8tit ......                 Drains
- Future Canal
SUMATERIIJ X                _                                                Major Rivers or Canals and Drains
Roads
-> 0  A W A  senbaraSg  i-~+---i   Railroads
= iakarsa                       _    DKI Jakarta Boundary
APRIL 1990



