                                            CHINA                               40819
                       HEBEINURBANENVIRONMENTPROJECT

                                      PROJECTPAPER

                            EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                                            EASUR

Date: August 9,2007                                Team Leader: Takuya Kamata
Country: People's Republic of China                Sector DirectorManager: Keshav Varma
Project Name: Hebei UrbanEnvironment               Country Director: DavidDollar
Project                                            Environmental Category: B
Project ID: PO45910




Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY            I 2001-2007 I         2008
Annual                              33.78                                             ______



Cumulative        116.22           150.00
Current closingdate: N/A
Revised closingdate: June 30,2008
Does the restructuredor scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bankpolicies?                                                               oYes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                [XIYes o N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                oYes [XINO
                                                                           I
Revised project development objectives/outcomes

The development objectives of the project have not beenrevised.

Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No

                                    FinancingPlan (US$m.)
                     Source                        Local     Foreign          Total
Borrower                                           122.0       21.0            143.0
IBRD                                                54.0       96.0            150.0

Total                                            I 176.0 I    117.0           293.O


                                        PROJECTPAPER

                                PROPOSALTO RESTRUCTURE

                         HEBEINURBANENVIRONMENT PROJECT


I.Background

1.       This project paper provide information on the restructuring of the Project to
utilize loan savings to finance the additional activities, reallocate loan proceeds
accordingly, and amendments to the Loan Agreement and ProjectAgreement. The Loan
was approved on June 27,2000, and declared effective on January 31,2001. There was
an interim extension of the closing date to September 30, 2007 to allow the Borrower to
review the draft Project Paper and draft Amendment Letters to the Loan and Project
Agreements. The current closing date is June 30,2008, which allows the implementing
agencies to complete implementationof the remainingcomponents. The total disbursed
balance as of June 30,2007 i s US$116.22 million, which represents 77% of the loan
commitment of US$150 million.

2.       The project development objective (PDO) of the project i s to provide a safe
environment and to sustain the long-term economic growth of urban areas inHebei
Province. The outcome indicators are: (i)  reduction of pollution loadfrom urban sources;
(ii) expansion of supply of safe water to meet the demand from domestic and industrial
sector; and (iii)improvement of financial viability of municipal service providers.

3.      During the Mid-TermReview (MTR)which was carriedout in November 2004, it
was concluded that the Hebei Urban Environment Project (HUEP) was making sound
progress with a strong likelihood that the project development objective (PDO) will be
achieved at the completion of the project. The PDOcontinues to be both relevant and
achievable inrelation to the specific Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).

4.      The physical progress of project implementation i s on track which i s a necessary
condition for increasing water supply andreducing waster water pollution. In addition,
all implementing agencies have made progress on the reform agenda through institutional
strengthening and training. On the financial viability, much progress has been made
through the actual increase inwater and waste water tariffs and implementation of
enhanced financial projectionby the implementing agencies.

5.      The project has four components: (i) Supply Improvement; (ii)
                                              Water                              Wastewater
Management; (iii)   InstitutionalStrengthening andTraining; and (iv) Industrial Water
Pollution Control. Implementation of all the original components have been completed
except for the interceptors for main trunk sewer network of Shijiazhuang waste water
component which i s expected to be completedby end-2007.

        Component 1-Water Supply Improvement




                                            - 2 -

         (0        Tangshan Water Supply - Water treatment plant, capacity 150,000
                   m3/day, including intakepumpingstation, 19kmraw water
                   transmission main and 9.5 kmdistribution trunk mains
         (ii)      Handan Water Supply - Water treatment plant, capacity 100,000
                   m3/day, 57kmraw water transmission main and some 50 kxnof
                   distributionnetwork

        Component 2 - Wastewater Management

         (i)     Shijiazhuang - Wastewater treatment plant, capacity 500,000 m3/day,
                including some 40km of sewer rehabilitation and expansion.
         (ii)   Tangshan -Wastewater treatment plant at Xijiao, capacity 120,000
                m3/day and 20km of sewer infrastructure.
         (iii)  Handan - Wastewater treatment plant, capacity 100,000 m3/day, with
                40km of trunk sewer infrastructure and sludge treatment expansion at
                existing plant

        Component 3 -Institutional Strengthening and Training

                The objective of this component is to assist the companies' transitionfrom
        being centrally planned governmental agencies to autonomous, market driven
        operating companies. Specific interventions are inthe areas o f institutional
        reform, business planning, financial management, financial projections and tariff
        development. There have been notable achievements in many areas such as: (a)
        all companies other than SWWC have business plans, (b) the Tangshan and
        Handan municipal governments have started to close self supply wells; (c) all the
        companies are now able to use the financial model; (d) substantial progress has
        been achieved inthe area of use of treated waste water inindustry; (e) all the
        companies have updatedjob descriptions; and (0the companies are addressing
        the issue of excess inthe workforce through staff attrition, early retirement and
        staff transfers. However, further corporitization efforts to enhance governance
        structure at municipal governments are still awaiting decisions by municipal
        authorities. Preparation activities for the MTAPC are underway.

        Component 4 -Industrial Water Pollution Control

        The final report for the IndustrialPollution Control Action Plan has been
        completed.

6. The MTR also recommended some modifications to the project components to utilize
the remainingloan proceeds to complete the ongoing activities andto finance new
activities under the proposed Mid-Term Adjustment Project Components (MTAPC). The
Government and the Bank discussed the proposed activities under the MTAPC and the
proposed reallocation necessary to finance the additional activities. The Bank team
concluded that the associated outcome targets for the Project and the Project development
objectives will all remain unchanged even with the addition of the MTAPC andrelated
Loan reallocation. The addition of the new activities would enhance the project



                                             - 3 -

outcomes. The Key Performance Indicators (WI)will remain the same as the original
ones.

7. All the preparatory work for the MTAPC, including engineering design, procurement
processes andclearance by the Bank of the additionalEnvironment Impact Assessment
(there i s no additional resettlement) have been completed since the MTR. An official
request from the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower was receivedinFebruary, 2007 to
formally reflect the proposed restructuring of the Project andusage of loan savings into
the amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements.

11. Proposedchawes

8.       There are no changes proposed to the development objectives. Only two changes
are made to the project itself, as follows:

    (i)AdditionalactivitiesforComponents1,2and3toutilizeloansavings:

         0  Tangshan Water Supply: Upgrading of the water distribution network by
            replacing31 kmof water pipes. Upgrading of the intakepumpingstation at
            old Beijiao Water Treatment Plant and GroundwaterTreatment Plant, as well
            as upgradingof equipment inthe Beijiao Water Treatment Plant. The same
            implementation agency of the original Component 1-(i), Tangshan Water
            Supply Company, will be incharge of implementationof this additional
            component.

            HandanWater Supply: Upgradingof water supply distributionnetwork to
            larger ductile pipes and upgradingof the equipment for aging early-phase
            parts of the water treatment plant. The same implementation agency of the
            original Component 1- (ii),   HandanWater Supply Company, will be in
            charge of implementationof this additional component.

            Tangshan Wastewater: Constructionof an effluent reuse plant for the use of
            treated wastewater as cooling water for the nearby power plant and associated
            pipelines. The same implementation agency of the original Component 2 -
            (ii),Tangshan Wastewater Company Co., Ltd, will be incharge of
            implementation of this additional component.

            HandanWastewater: Upgrading andextension of sewage pipes serving the old
            Eastern Wastewater Treatment Plant and upgrading of equipment at the same
            plant. The same implementation agency of the original Component 2 - (iii),  T
            Handan Sewerage Treatment Co., Ltd, will be incharge of implementation of
            this additional component.

            Institutional Development and Training: Carrying out a study of sludge
            lsposal at the Qiaodong Wastewater Treatment Plant in Shijiazhuang;
            establishment of a geographical information system ("GIS') system in
            Handan; and carrying out a water supply andwastewater management



                                             - 4 -

            studyhraining. The same companies which are incharge of the original
            institutional development and training components - ShijiazhuangWastewater
            Treatment Co., Ltd, HandanWater Supply Company and Handan Sewerage
            Treatment Co., Ltd. -will implement this component.

        (ii)Theclosingdateofthecreditwouldbeextendedbyninemonths,from
        September 30,2007 to June 30,2008. Annexes 1and 2 show the proposed Mid-
        Term AdjustmentProject Components (MTAPC) and the financing plan;
        disbursement schedule; andthe proposed revised Schedule 1, reflecting the
        reallocation.

9.      The funds available under the Loan have beenreviewedand the Bank team has
concluded that they are sufficient to cover the MTAPC. To facilitate the implementation
of the MTAPC, there is a needto realign the allocationof loan proceeds. For that reason,
under Schedule 1of the Loan Agreement, US$7.5 million from "Unallocated" category,
US$9.79 million from Category 1"Works" and US$2.5 millionfrom Category 3
"Consultant Services and Training" will be reallocated to Category 2 "Goods" to finance
the MTAPC. The proposed additional works andtraining activities will be implemented
by the companies that implementedthe original components namely: Handan Water
Supply Company, Handan Wastewater Treatment, Tangshan Water Supply Company and
Tangshan Wastewater Treatment Company

111. Consistencywith CAS

10.     The original project components andthe additional MTAPC are consistent with
two strategic pillars inthe Bank's "Country Partnership Strategy for China" (CPS,
FY2006-2010, Report No. 35435): (i)    to reduce poverty, inequality, social exclusion by
improving the urban management and infrastructure as well as the efficiency of urban
markets; and (ii) to manage resource scarcity and environmental challenges by expanding
urban wastewater collection and treatment facilities. These are consistent with China's
"1lth DevelopmentPlan".
     Five-Year

IV. Analysis

EconomicAnalysis

11.     All the requiredtariff increases have already beenimplementedby Tangshan and
Handanmunicipalities and beneficiaries are now receiving all the expected water supply
and wastewater services: thus the minimumfloor portion of economic benefits for the
original project components of water supply works and wastewater works for these
municipalities has been fully materialized. The slightly lower capital costs for these
original components have offset the prolongedproject implementation period: thus the
originally projected economic rates of return- about 14 % for Tangshan water supply
and some 13% for Handanwater supply - have been fully achieved. Economic rates of
return for wastewater components were not quantified at the appraisal stage: but the
identifiedbenefits are achieved.




                                            - 5 -

12.      Interms of economic cost andbenefits of the proposed additionalMTAPC, the
works aim at reducing leakage of aging water distribution and wastewater collection
networks and increasing operational efficiency of old water supply and wastewater
treatment plants. For the additional water supply components, the economic rates of
return are estimated to be significantly higher than the of original water supply project
components since typical leakage prevention works for the similar urban set-up normally
yieldrates of returnabove 20 %. Interms of the wastewater reuse work for Tangshan,
since it will reduce consumption of ground water by the power plant, it will help
Tangshan municipality achieve one of the most critical economic benefits that were
identifiedat the appraisal stage.

FinancialManagement

13.      Periodic supervision missionreviews of financial management have rated
financial management as satisfactory. Since the original implementing entities will carry
out the additional activities, there i s no need to carry out a new FMassessment. Audit
reports are up to date and the project audit opinion was unqualified,

Technical

14.      The technology for distribution andcollection network pipes follows the ones
adopted under the original project components. The technology for upgrade of
equipments for water supply and wastewater treatment plants has been designed based on
specific engineering requirements of existing facilities. The technology for new added
wastewater reuse component has been designed according to the specific requirements
from the user and follows engineering standard. The process for wastewater reuse i s bio-
filter and sand filter are common usedprocess.

15.      Unitprices are basedon the mostrecent markethidprices obtained duringthe
implementationof the original project components. As the same utility companies are in
charge of implementation, engineering and project management overheads are not an
issue. Price and physical contingencies are also appropriately incorporated.

Procurement

16.      All majorprocurement activities have been completedsatisfactorily andregular
post-reviews have confirmedcompliance with Bank procurement guidelines. The Bank
team has concurred to the Borrower's request that the Single Source Selection
procurement methodfor consultants' selection should be added since the same
supervising consultant will continue to performthe supervision duties on the MTAPC.
The revised procurement plan i s attached as Annex 3

Safeguards

17.     The Project i s a Category B project. The Environmental Mitigation Plans (EMPs)
and the Resettlement Action Plans are beingimplemented satisfactorily. For the new
activities, the EMPs have been prepared. The RAPSare not required as there are no land
acquisitions and resettlement issues that are associated with proposed activities: all the


                                              - 6 -

 works are undertaken within the premise of utility companies' existing facilities or on the
 existing structure that lies along public infrastructure such as municipal roads and
 waterway. All the works are located within the existing locations under the project

 V. Expectedoutcomes

 18.     The proposed restructuring would not affect the project development objective
 and outcome indicators. These additional components will serve broadly for the same
 groups of beneficiaries inthe original project municipalities. There will be no change in
 the agreed monitoring framework.


 VI. Benefits andRisks

 19.     There are no additional people that will be benefitedfrom the additionalTangshan
 wastewater reuse component and Handan wastewater component. About 2 million people
 will be benefited from the Tangshan water supply component, andabout 150,000 to
 200,000 additionalpeople will be benefited from the Handanwater supply component.

 The proposed additional components would mostly reduce network leakage through
 upgrade of pipes and would improve operational efficiency of old water and wastewater
 treatment plants through prevention of break-down and reducingmaintenance time.
 These additional components will, inthe end, improve financial collectionrates further.
 Inparticular, for Handan water supply, the once deteriorated collectionrate of 86% at the
 time of appraisal i s expected to get back to over 90%.

As all the additional components will be carriedout by the same implementingagencies
on their own existing treatment facilities and the existing networks which lie along public
traffic and water infrastructure, there i s no additional risks incurred by the additional
MTAPC.




                                               - 7 -

 Proposed Additional Works
                                                              Budget    Government     IBRD

  Component 1 Tangshan Water Supply
                -                                            US$'OOO      US$lOOO     US$lOOO


  1. Upgradingthewater distribution network                      5.06         2.70        2.36
 2. Upgrading intake pumping station, BeijiaoWater               3.12         0.70        2.42
 Treatment Plant

 Total                                                           8.18         3.40        4.78

 Component 2   - Tangshan Wastewater

  1. Effluent reuseplantto reusetreatedwastewaterascooling
 water
  2. Associatedpipelinesto supply reused water andequipment
 on water supply network and the water productionplant

  Total                                                          6.90         5.26        1.64
                                                            I          I            I
  Component 1 HandanWater Supply
               -
  1. Strengtheningthewater distributionnetwork                 10.95          5.91        5.04
 2. Equipmentupgradesfor the water supply network                2.81            0        2.81


I
I Component - HandanWastewater                             I           I             1     -     7
             2

  1. Upgradingandextensionofsewagepipesfor Eastern               4.20         2.27        1.93
 Wastewater Treatment Plan
 2. Equipment Upgrade for Eastern Wastewater Treatment           1.85            0        1.85
 Plant

 Total                                                           6.05         2.27        3.78

  Component 3 InstitutionalDevelopment
               -
  1. SludgeDisposalStudy QiaodongWastewater Treatment
                          -                                      0.50            0         0.5
 Plant
 2. GIS systems (Handan and Tangsanwaster andwastewater          1.20            0         1.2
 comDonents)
 3. Water Supply & Wastewater Studyflraining                     1.80            0         1.8

 Total                                                           3.50         0.00        3.50

 Grand Total                                                   38.39         16.84      21.55




                                                   - 8 -


FinancingPlan:

Government                   US$16.84million
TBRD: Component Savings      US$14.05 million
      Unallocated            US$7.50million

Total                        US38.39 million


EstimatedDisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)

    FY     I 2001-2007 I  2008
  Annual                  33.78
Cumulative     116.22     150.00




                                 - 9 -


                             ProposedSchedule 1to the LoanAgreement

                                 Withdrawal of the Proceedsof the Loan

           The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
    the Loan, the allocation of the amount of the Loanto eachCategory and the percentageof
    expendituresfor items to be financed ineachCategory:

                                     Amount of the Loan
                                    Allocated (Expressedin        % of Expenditures
            Categorv                       Dollars)                   to be Financed
(1)Works                                  52,5 10,000                      46%
                                                            100%of foreign expenditures or
                                                             100%of local expenditures for
                                                             locally manufacturedgoods or
                                                             75% of localexpenditures for
(2) Goods                                 86,690,000           other items procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services and
training                                   9,300,000                      100%
                                                            Amount due under Section 2.04
(4) Front EndFee                           1,500,000             of the Loan Agreement
(5) Unallocated                                0


        Total




                                                  - 10-

