Report No. PID7677
Project Name                     China-Hebei Urban Environment Project (@+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Sewerage; Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       CNPE45910
Borrower(s)                      Peoples' Republic Of China
Implementing Agency              Hebei Province, Hebei Project Mgmt Office
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 29, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 4, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
There are three major issues facing Hebei with regard to the urban
environment: (i) environmental degradation; (ii) infrastructure constraints;
and (iii) financial weakness of the municipal service providers. In order
to address the growing need for municipal services, the Hebei Provincial
Government (HPG) plans to expand and improve municipal wastewater management
and water supply systems. The major concerns of Hebei Province (HP) are
therefore the quantity and quality of water it supplies to households and
industries, as well as its impact on economic development, and the continuing
environmental deterioration of the aquatic environment and subsequent impact
of water pollution on public health. The quality of drinking water
typically complies with national standards, but the quality of raw water at
the water intake frequently does not meet the standard for E.coli and other
bacteria and constitutes a significant risk to the water supply in case of
operational problems of the water treatment.     Pressure to augment capacity
for wastewater management and water supply is increasing with sustained
economic growth and migration to the cities. Currently, the capacity for
wastewater treatment is limited. Except for some industries which undertake
their own treatment, facilities for domestic wastewater treatment are limited
in Hebei.  In Shijiazhuang, the capital city, only 16% of the wastewater is
being treated in a centralized facility. The predominant means of treatment
is through the use of septic tanks, which are often not operated efficiently
and correctly. With regard to water supply, deficits have been projected for
several project cities, with the exception of Shijiazhuang which has recently
commissioned a new water treatment plant for 300,000 m3/day.Water services in
China has historically been provided by wholly government-owned companies,
some of which have been in existence for over 70 years. Urban environmental
services are the responsibility of municipal governments and are provided
either at the municipal or at the district level. Wastewater services are
usually run by municipal government department, normally as part of an
engineering services department which also has responsibilities for roads,
bridges and street lights. Water supply and wastewater services report to
different bureaus, although both are the ultimate responsibility of the
municipal construction commissions. Municipally-owned service companies
maintain segregated accounts, which since July 1993 use accounting system
similar to those of international practices. However, this has not been the



case for services run by municipal departments.The water industry has
registered a marginal profit (0.1%) in 1996, but 35% of the companies were at
a loss. In the case of wastewater, the picture is less clear, but certainly
the sector survives by virtue of government subsidies. In a context of
serious water pollution and water scarcity, limited coverage (particularly
for wastewater treatment) and increasing costs, there is now mounting
pressure for the industries to achieve full cost recovery and introduce cost
control measures. While several pricing reforms, to inspire tariff increases
and introduce more scientific methods of charging for the service received,
have been enacted by central government agencies, these can only be
successful in the long term if institutional and organizational reforms for
the sector providers are also implemented.Water and wastewater entities find
themselves in a transition phase where the traditional government subsidies
have been reduced, but tariffs for municipal services do not yet cover the
full cost of operation and investment. Hebei is no different in the
challenges it faces in the sector and has embark in a series of reforms both
aimed at improving cost recovery and improve efficiency of service delivery
by the companies.Government Strategy: To finance the expansion of urban
environmental infrastructure, the Government tends to rely increasingly on
user charges, given shrinking public investment budgets and subsidies. As
for management, the Government encourages the creation of financially
autonomous municipal companies. While this policy has been implemented for
some time in the water supply sector, the wastewater subsector remains
largely within the government realms and relies entirely on subsidies.
However, the recentl State Circular No. 1192 of October 1999, stipulates the
need for institutional and financial reforms with regard to wastewater
collection, treatment and disposale services, similar to the regulations
implemented earlier in 1998 for water supply.    In addition, as part of the
policies devised to facilitate the project, the Hebei Government has recently
decided to delegate the authority for setting water and wastewater tariffs in
the three project cities directly to the municipal governments and their
price bureaus. This would not only simplify the approval process for tariff
revisions, but also enhance the financial sustainability of utility
companies. It is hoped that similar regulations will be soon issued for the
other cities in HP.The HPG plans to curb pollution from urban and industrial
sources and to expand the supply of water. With regard to pollution,
ambitious targets have been set for the year 2000 for major rivers in the
province. The target for wastewater collection and centralized treatment by
the year 2005 is to increase the coverage in Shijiazhuang to 65%, in Tangshan
to 85% and Handan to 60%.   It is also planned that 75% of industrial
wastewater should comply with discharge standards. For the year 2010, the
target is to have 75% of all urban wastewater treated and the water quality
of all rivers, canals and lakes comply with the standards. To achieve these
targets, HPG also wants to expand the capacity of wastewater collection and
treatment and improve the enforcement of existing standards, in particular
for industrial pollution control.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to provide a safe
environmental setting to sustain the long-term economic growth of urban areas
in Hebei Province. The project would support Hebei Province in implementing
a long-term urban environmental services improvement program to recover from
past environmental degradation of its water and land resources, to provide an
adequate supply of safe water to its growing urban population and economy,
and ensure sustainability of delivery through institutional and financial
- 2 -



reforms of the service utilities.Progress towards the development objective
of the proposed project would be measured in terms of: (a) reduction of
pollution load from the urban sector through selective high-impact wastewater
collection and disposal improvements; (b) expansion of supply capacity for
safe water in urban areas; and (c) strengthened financial viability and
institutional autonomy of municipal service companies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank Group brings considerable international experience to assist in
policy formulation and investment program design, in particular with respect
to economic, financial and institutional analyses and systematic
consideration of alternatives. Bank Group assistance will also draw on our
growing experience in addressing institutional and financial reform within
water supply and wastewater utilities. Bank Group assistance in the design
phase enabled the Province and project entities to widen the scope of
possible options and find more cost-effective solutions than the ones
originally considered, maximize environmental impact of treatment facilities
and introduce energy saving opportunities with significant financial
benefits. The Bank Group involvement will enhance the construction quality
control of the physical investments, accelerate institutional strengthening
and training, and contribute its considerable experience in bringing about
meaningful utility reform in the sector.
4. Description
The project would include the following components:
(a) Water Supply
Tangshan: Water Treatment Plant, capacity 150,000 m3/day, including intake
pumping station, 19 km raw water transmission main and 9.5 km distribution
trunk mains.
Handan: Water treatment plant, capacity 100,000 m3/day, 56 km raw water
transmission main and some 50 km of water distribution network
(b) Wastewater Management
Shijiazhuang:   Wastewater treatment plant, capacity 500,000 m3/day,
including some 40 km of trunk sewer, rehabilitation and expansion;
Tangshan: Wastewater treatment plant at Xijiao, capacity 120,000 m3/day and
20 km of sewer infrastructure;
Handan: Wastewater treatment plant, capacity 100,000 m3/day with 40 km of
trunk sewer infrastructure and sludge treatment expansion at existing plant;
(c) Environmental Pollution Control
All cities: (i) industrial counseling program for process adjustments to
promote water conservation and pollution reduction; (ii) Public awareness
campaign for water conservation at households.
Provincial EPB: (i) Credit facility for lending to small and medium
industries to finance water polluction abatement.
(d) Institutional Strengthening: The component would finance the design and
equipment for setting up GIS based decision support systems and provide
training to staff in order to strengthen: (i) utilities' financial and
operational management; (ii) the municipalities' tariff setting policy; and
(iii) the provincial government's capacity for region wide water quality
- 3-



monitoring. Technical assistance would also support construction management
services and future investment project preparation.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               143
IBRD                     150
IDA                      0
Total Project Cost       293
6. Implementation
Project Management:    HPG has established a high level Leading   Group to
oversee project preparation and has set up the Hebei Project Management
Office (HEPMO) to prepare and execute the project. The Hebei Finance Bureau
(HFB) is the lead agency for the project, with support from the Construction
Commission, the Planning Commission, and the Environmental Protection Bureau.
The HEPMO's responsibilities include: (a) overall project coordination,
macro-level project management and monitoring; (b) annual budget preparation;
(c) project-wide quality assurance; (d) progress reporting to HPG and the
Bank, including cost management, project impact and environmental improvement
assessment; (e) interagency coordination and procurement support; and (f)
sectional training facilitation. The personnel mix of HEPMO and municipal
project offices would need to be adjusted from time-to-time to reflect the
needs of the various phases of the project, including completion of
preparation, tendering phase and project implementation. The project cities
have established Project Management Offices to facilitiate and monitor the
implementation of the respective project components on behalf of the
municipal government.    Implementing Agencies:  The effective implementation
of the physical works will be the responsibility of the following municipal
utility companies: (a) newly created and existing Wastewater Companies
(WWCs) would be responsible for the implementation of the sewerage component,
as well as operation of all facilities in the cities. These services
traditionally have been provided by municipal utilities management bureaus,
but given the magnitude of the project, the city government have recognized
the need for establishing autonomous and self-accounting enterprises in the
wastewater sector. Wastewater companies have been established in all three
project cities and all assets have been transferred to them from the
municipal drainage offices.The Water Supply Companies (WSC) in each of the
cities would be responsible for the implementation of the water supply
component. They would be responsible for construction management, production,
operation and maintenance, consumer service and administration of the water
supply systems in their respective jurisdictions. The water supply companies
will bill and collect wastewater charges on behalf of the wastewater
companies. The revenues, minus a fee, will be transferred directly to the
wastewater companies.The industrial pollution control action plan (IPCAP)
would be managed by the Hebei Environmental Protection Bureau (HEPB) and
implemented by the municipal EPBs.The International Tendering Company CMC
will be retained as the procurement agency for all aspects of the civil,
electrical and mechanical works requiring bidding through international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Design review and advisory and
construction management services would be carried out by an international
firm using joint international/national teams. Construction supervision
will be carried out by local supervision companies retained by the
Implementing Agencies.Onlending Arrangements:    The proposed loan of $150
million would be made to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be
- 4 -



for 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans. The Ministry of
Finance, would make the proceeds of the loan available to Hebei Province on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to China. The Province would
then onlend to the Muncipalities on same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan to China. The onlending from the Municipalities to the water supply and
wastewater companies would be 5 years grace plus 10 years maturity.
Financial Management: Hebei Province has the required systems and staff to
carry out the financial management of the project. HP already has ongoing
Bank Group-financed projects in other sectors and the Hebei Finance Bureau
(HFB) is familiar with the Bank Group's disbursement procedures. Hebei
prepared a Financial Management Systems (FMS) Manual, which was found
satisfactory. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened
with an authorized allocation of $10.0 million, equivalent to the estimated
average expenditures to be financed by the Bank Group over a four-month
period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
the Bank Group and would be managed by HFB.Auditing Arrangements: As with
other Bank Group-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under
the name of State Audit Administration, would have overall responsibility for
auditing the accounts of the project. The actual auditing work would be
conducted by the Hebei Provincial Audit Department inder CNAO's supervision.
The Bank Group currently accepts audits performed under the responsibility of
CNAO. Audits of the financial statements of implementing agencies, and audit
of the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank group within six months
after the end of the financial year. The audit reports of the implementing
agencies would include opinions on whether the agencies were in compliance
with their respective financial covenants, and whether these agencies had
taken out adequate insurance on goods and works financed from the loan
proceeds.Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation Arrangements:     HEPMO has
primary responsibility for monitoring and reporting through quarterly project
preparation and implementation progress reports, based on information
compiled from the implementing agencies. Bank supervision of project
implementation will be conducted twice a year by both headquarters and
resident mission staff. During implementation, project performance,
including the achievements of project outputs and attainment of development
objectives, would be monitored through the use of quarterly reports prepared
by HEPMO. The first such monitoring report would be submitted by July 31,
2000 and the last one by July 31, 2007. Also a mid-term review will be
undertaken jointly with the Government to evaluate the project achievements
and identify the need for corrective measures. In addition, an
implementation completion report, reviewing the planned objectives and
project achievements, including costs and benefits derived, and performance
and contribution of all parties associated with project execution, would be
prepared by HEPMO and submitted to the Bank Group within six months of the
Closing date.
7. Sustainability
The project is expected to be sustainable in three respects:    (i)
financially; (ii) institutionally; and (iii) technically. The tariff
reforms, now strongly supported by the Government will enhance the viability
of municipal service providers, particularly the newly created wastewater
companies. The establishment of autonomous utility companies is also
supported by the state and provincial Governments. Finally, the project
addresses an issue of high priority to both the local and the national
- 5 -



government, i.e. vital self-interest in achieving affordable basic urban
services within conducive environmental conditions necessary for sustained
economic growth whereby water resources become an increasing scarce
commodity.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Greater Reliance on User Charges: A major finding from the OED review of
Bank water and sanitation projects has been a generally good achievement of
physical targets, but less success in sustaining the financial viability of
municipal services. This is in line with the findings from a recent sector
work on China ("Urban Environmental Service Management," Report #13073-CHA).
This report supports the need for greater reliance on user charges and
concludes that such charges would be affordable and would encourage resource
conservation and create a more dependable income stream. Tariff reforms and
improvement of operational efficiency have been a centerpiece of the policy
dialogue with the Hebei Government. Adjustments of tariff levels, prior and
during implementation, are an integral part of the project design.Timing of
Tariff Increases: Previous urban environment projects in China have
frequently encountered difficulties in implementing agreed tariff increases
in a timely manner, sometimes delaying loan or credit effectiveness. Tariff
increases often represent politiclaly difficult decions for local
governments, but are critical for the sustainability of the project. This
project has required that substantial tariff adjustments be implemented
during the preparation stage (four of the five cities have already approved
and implemented tariff increases). Two further increases are expected prior
to Negotiations. Written assurances were obtained from the Municipal
Governments that they will further increase tariffs during project
implementation as per schedule agreed with the Bank.Support for institutional
reform: The establishment of financially autonomous utility enterprises to
develop and manage urban services is a long-standing Chinese practice, and
avoids many of the management difficulties of publicly-owned utilities in
other countries. However, wastewater companies have only recently been given
the same autonomy generally by absorbing the existing drainage bureaus and
construction management units already active in the sector into separate
enterprises. The prior experience of these bureaus will certainly benefit the
transition, but substantial levels of technical assistance will be needed to
strengthen the new companies' managerial, financial and operational
capacities.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The environmental impact of the project is, on
balance, substantially positive and the benefits greatly outweigh the
negative impacts. The proposed project would reduce pollution loads in the
Fuyang, Xiao and Quilonghe rivers, allow for the replacement of poor-quality
water supply sources, as well as eliminate groundwater mining practices
(Handan).     Major potential impacts during the construction phase include
excavation, dust, noise, spoil disposal and disruption of urban services.
Impacts during the operational phase include sludge disposal, noise, and
odors.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
-6-



Wiebe Moes
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-0810
Fax:   (202) 522-1787
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



