Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20062-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FORA
HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
May 10, 2000
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Y 1.00 = US$ 8.3
US$0.12 = Y1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC       -  Average Incremental Cost           IPCAP      -  Industrial Pollution Control
BOT       -  Build, Operate, Transfer                         Action Plan
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy        MIS        -  Management Information
CNAO      -  China National Audit Office                      System
EA        -  Environmental Assessment           MOC        -  Ministry of Construction
FMS       -  Financial Management System        NCB        -  National Competitive Bidding
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product             OED        -  Operations Evaluation
GIS       -  Geographic Information System                    Department
HEPB      -  Hebei Environrnental Protection    PMO        -  Project Management Office
Bureau
HFB       -  Hebei Finance Bureau               RAP        -  Resettlement Action Plan
HP        -  Hebei Province                     SDPC       -  State Development and
HPG       -  Hebei Provincial Government                      Planning Commission
HUEP      -  Hebei Urban Environment            SWWC    -  Shijiazhuang Wastewater
Project                                         Company
HWSC      -  Handan Water Supply                TVE        -  Town and Village Enterprise
Company                           TWSC       -  Tangshan Water Supply
HWWC    -  Handan Wastewater Company                          Company
IA        -  Implementation Agency              TWWC    -  Tangshan Wastewater
IAP       -  Institutional Action Plan                        Company
ICB       -  International Competitive          WTP        -  Water Treatment Plant
Bidding                           WWTP    -  Wastewater Treatment Plan
NBGF      -  Not Bank Group Financed
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:   Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Wiebe Moes, EASUR



CHINA
HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Social                                                                             19
6. Environment                                                                        20
7. Participatory Approach                                                             20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21
2. Critical risks                                                                     21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     22



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             22
2. Other                                                                               22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           25
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    36
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        64
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      73
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             81
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment                                                        83
Annex 12: Resettlement                                                                    92
Annex 13: Institutional Strengthening                                                     94
Annex 14: Financial Management System                                                     98
MAP(S)
IBRD Nos. 30926, 30928, 30929



CHINA
HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASUR
Date: May 10, 2000                                  Team Leader: Wiebe Moes
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang               Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Vanrma
Project ID: P0459 10                                Sector(s): WS - Sewerage, WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment; Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Z Loan          L] Credit        I-I Grant       0 Guarantee      Z Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 150
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                  Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
FlPinancIn Plan:    SourceLol                                                   regTta
GOVERNMENT                                                      122.00           21.00         143.00
IBRD                                                             54.00           96.00         150.00
Total:                                                          176.00          117.00         293.00
Borrower: PEOPLESt REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: HEBEI PROVINCE, BEBEI PROJECT MGMT OFFICE
Hebei Finance Bureau and the municipalities of Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan.
Address: 14 Huaan Street, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, People's Republic of China 050051
Contact Person: Mr. Li Lusi, Vice Director, Hebei Project Management Office
Tel: 311 701.1834                 Fax: 311 703.1129                  Email: hbpmo@public.sj.he.cn
iEstimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
2002         20Q3 ,      204205                    262907-1
Annualf   12.0           20.0 J       25.0  I      003.                      4.0         9.
Cumulative     12.0         32.0  1       57.0        87.0       117.0         141.0       150.0
Project implementation period: July 2000-June 2006
,Expected effectiveness date: 11/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
OCA PAD F-n R~ vh 2MaA



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed Hebei Urban Environment Project (HUEP) is to
provide a safe environment and to sustain the long-term economic growth of urban areas in Hebei
Province (HP). The project would support Hebei Province in implementing a long-term urban
environmental services improvement program to recover from environmental degradation of its
water and land resources, provide an adequate supply of safe water to its growing urban
population and economy, and ensure sustainability of delivery through institutional and financial
reforms of the service utilities.
Progress towards the development objective of the proposed project would be measured in terms
of: (a) reduction of pollution load from the urban sector through selective high-impact wastewater
collection and disposal improvements; (b) expansion of supply capacity for safe water in urban
areas; and (c) strengthened financial viability and institutional autonomy of municipal service
companies.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators would include quantified targets for reduced water pollution for the
urban sector into rivers, reduced water pollution from the industrial sector, expanded supply of
safe water to meet urban demand, improved efficiency of service delivery and asset management,
and reduced level of subsidies for investments in urban environmental infrastructure.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: 16321-CHA             Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/18/97; 5/28/98
Progress Report
The project supports two of the five priorities of the most recent CAS: (1) safeguarding the
environment; and (2) reducing infrastructure bottlenecks. Specifically, it would expand the
capacity of urban environmental services and improve the strengthening of water quality
monitoring capability. The project also supports the strategy to increasingly use tariffs to finance
environment related public services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
There are three major issues facing Hebei with regard to the urban environment:  (i)
environmental degradation; (ii) infrastructure constraints; and (iii) financial weakness of the
municipal service providers. In order to address growing demand for water and environment
cleanup, the Hebei Provincial Government (HPG) plans to expand and improve municipal
wastewater management and water supply systems.
The major concerns of HP are the quantity and quality of water it supplies to households and
industries, as well as its impact on economic development, and the continuing environmental
deterioration of the aquatic environment and subsequent impact of water pollution on public
-2 -



health. The quality of drinking water typically complies with national standards, but the quality of
raw water at the water intake frequently does not meet the standard for E.coli and other bacteria
and constitutes a significant risk to the water supply in case of operational problems of the water
treatment.
Pressure to augment capacity for wastewater management and water supply is increasing with
sustained economic growth and migration to the cities. Currently, the capacity for wastewater
treatment is limited. Except for some industries which undertake their own treatment, facilities
for domestic wastewater treatment are limited in Hebei. In Shijiazhuang, the capital city, only
16% of the wastewater is being treated in a centralized facility. The predominant means of
treatment is through the use of septic tanks, which are often not operated efficiently and correctly.
With regard to water supply, deficits have been projected for several project cities, with the
exception of Shijiazhuang which has recently commissioned a new water treatment plant for
300,000 m3/day.
Water services in China have historically been provided by wholly government owned companies,
some of which have been in existence for over 70 years. Urban environmental services are the
responsibility of municipal governments and are provided either at the municipal or at the district
level. Wastewater services are usually run by municipal government department, normally as part
of an engineering services department which also has responsibilities for roads, bridges and street
lights. Water supply and wastewater services report to different bureaus, although both are the
ultimate responsibility of the municipal construction commissions. Municipally-owned service
companies maintain segregated accounts, which since July, 1993 use accounting system similar to
those of international practices, however, this has not been the case for services run by municipal
departments.
The water industry has registered a marginal profit (0.1%) in 1996, but 35% of the companies
were at a loss. In the case of wastewater, the picture is less clear but certainly the sector survives
by virtue of government subsidies. In a context of serious water pollution and water scarcity,
limited coverage (particularly for wastewater treatment) and increasing costs, there is now
mounting pressure for the industries to achieve full cost recovery and introduce cost control
measures. While several pricing reforms, to inspire tariff increases and introduce more scientific
methods of charging for the service received, have been enacted by central government agencies,
these can only be successful in the long term only if institutional and organizational reforms for
the sector providers are also implemented.
Water and wastewater entities find themselves in a transitional phase where the traditional
government subsidies have been reduced, but tariffs for municipal services do not yet cover the
full cost of operation and investment. Hebei is no different in the challenges it faces in the sector
and has embarked on a series of reforms both aimed at improving cost recovery and improve
efficiency of service delivery by the companies.
Government Strategy: To finance the expansion of urban environmental infrastructure, the
Government intends to rely increasingly on user charges, given shrinking public investment
budgets and subsidies. As for management, the Government encourages the creation of financially
autonomous municipal companies. While this policy has been implemented for some time in the
- 3 -



water supply sector, the wastewater subsector remains largely within the government realms and
relies on subsidies. However, the recent State Circular No.1192 of October 1999 stipulates the
need for institutional and financial reforms with regard to wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal services, similar to the regulations implemented earlier in 1998 for water supply. In
addition, as part of the policies devised to facilitate the project, the Hebei Government has
recently decided to delegate authority for setting water and wastewater tariffs in the three project
cities directly to the municipal governments and their price bureaus. This would not only simplify
the approval process for tariff revisions but also enhance the financial sustainability of utility
companies. It is hoped that similar regulations will be soon issued for the other cities in HP.
The HPG plans to curb pollution from urban and industrial sources and to expand the supply of
water. With regard to pollution, ambitious targets have been set for the year 2000 for major
rivers in the province. The target for wastewater collection and centralized treatment by the year
2005 is to increase the coverage in Shijiazhuang to 65%, in Tangshan to 85% and Handan to
60%.  It is also planned that 75% of industrial wastewater should comply with  discharge
standards. For the year 2010, the target is to have 75% of all urban wastewater treated and the
water quality of all rivers, canals and lakes comply with the standards. To achieve these targets,
HPG also wants to expand the capacity of wastewater collection and treatment and improve the
enforcement of existing standards, in particular for industrial pollution control.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Wastewater Management: The Project will support HPG in implementing its water quality
strategy in the three project cities, through expansion of wastewater collection and treatment
facilities.
Water Supply: The project will support the upgrading and expansion of water supply in Tangshan
and Handan, as well as demand side management, in particular through tariff increases. Current
water consumption figures in all cities are high compared to other countries. Taking into
consideration the overall water deficit in the province (and North China in general) and the large
investment requirements for both water and wastewater infrastructure, it is of the utmost
importance that water demand be controlled, and possibly reduced. This will be achieved through
a combination of monetary incentives (higher tariffs) and public information campaigns.
Tariff Reform and Financial Viability of Utilities: The financial situation of the water utilities is
poor and deteriorating. Estimated return on assets of water supply companies is negative which
is not surprising, given the fact that water supply tariffs have slightly decreased in real terms over
the last 10 years, despite substantial increases in nominal terms. Wastewater charges were very
low (only 5 - 15% of the water tariff). As part of project preparation, all the cities have
substantially increased their water and wastewater tariff. The project would also provide TA
support for government departments and utility companies' staff to continue institutional and
financial reforms, as well as to enhance operational management.
Industrial Pollution Control: There is also substantial pollution from industry, particularly in the
Hai and Fuyang river basins. Without a significant effort to control industrial wastewater
pollution, expected environmental benefits from municipal investments would be marginal. HPG
-4 -



has agreed to address this issue through the implementation of a policy focussed on Industrial
Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP). The IPCAP would reduce pollution loads discharged
from key polluting sectors.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
- 5-



The project includes the following components:
;1!|!idct'ive,t' Bak   '%* of
(a) Water Supply.                  Urban Water        43.50       14.8     24.30      16.2
Supply
Tangshan: Water Treatment Plant,
capacity 150,000 m3/day, including
intake pumping station, 19 km raw
water transmission main and 9.5 km
distribution trunk mains
Handan: Water treatment plant,     Urban Water        42.70       14.6     22.90      15.3
capacity 100,000 m3/day, 57 km raw    Supply
water transmission main and some 50
km of water distribution network
0.0                 0.0
(b) Wastewater Management
Shijiazhuang: Wastewater treatment   Sewerage        109.30       37.3     59.70      39.8
plant, capacity 500,000 m3/day,
including some 40 km of sewer
rehabilitation and expansion;
Tangshan: Wastewater treatment plant  Sewerage        30.90       10.5     15.30      10.2
at Xijiao, capacity 120,000 m3/day and
20 km of sewer infrastructure;
Handan: Wastewater treatment plant,   Sewerage        39.00       13.3     20.90      13.9
capacity 100,000 m3/day with 40 km
of trunk sewer infrastructure and
sludge treatment expansion at existing
plant
(c) Environmental Pollution Control    Other           0.90        0.3      0.90       0.6
Environment
(d) Institutional Strengthening &  Institutional       4.50        1.5      4.50       3.0
Training                           Development
Total Project Costs                  270.80       92.3    148.50      99.0
Interest during construction                21.00       7.2       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                    1.50        0.5      1.50        1.0
Total Financing Required                  293.30      100.0    150.00      100.0
-6 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The development objectives of the project would be achieved through enacting a blend of policy
and investment initiatives. Financial and policy reform would concentrate on: (a) establishment
and capacity building of wastewater companies; (b) enhancement of the utilities' operational
efficiency; and (c) resource mobilization and cost recovery measures. The institutional
strengthening and training component would enhance policies and operational activities in
environmental protection and water supply and wastewater management. Industrial pollution
control would be implemented through a time-bound action plan and non-Bank financed
investments with respect to pollution mitigation, principally from paper, chemical and
pharmaceutical industries. Support for these initiatives has been grouped into a number of
packages for the various executing agencies, covering institutional development, financial
management improvement, industrial pollution control, and construction supervision and training.
As part of the process of reforms, the newly established companies should be given more freedom
to properly manage the activities for which they have been made responsible. While reforms are
being implemented at the company level, there is a need to also change procedures and
responsibilities of the municipal departments in charge of supervising and regulating the sector.
All water supply and wastewater companies are natural monopolies that operate in imperfect
markets. This means that continuing regulation of the companies either by government directly, or
on behalf of government is required. This regulation is necessary to protect the interests of
customers (in terms of service provision and charges) and to avoid the companies generating
excessive profits. The project will assist in this regard, as part of the technical assistance
component. Advice will be provided to the municipal governments to give some additional
certainty and application of scientific method to price setting, particularly in how local
affordability and willingness to pay are measured and presented to decision-makers.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target Population: Considering the importance of the three cities in terms of overall economic
growth in Hebei province, the expected demands for urban environmental infrastructure are
significant. The target population of the project is living in the urban core of the three project
cities and is estimated at 2.9 million, which will grow to some 5.0 million by the year 2010. The
direct beneficiaries of the physical investments number 950,000 for water supply and 1.6 million
for wastewater collection and disposal. In addition, substantial part of the works, up to 75%, will
benefit industrial and commercial development.
Benefits: The project would help Hebei to put in place policies, institutions, and infrastructure to
sustain environmental quality and improve urban services in a period of strong growth. The
proposed project would generate benefits in terms of improvements in environmental quality,
health, municipal services and institutional capacity:
* Environmental Benefits: improved ambient water quality through reduced pollution loads
from urban wastewater and waste and more effective, GIS based, water quality monitoring.
-7 -



* Improved Municipal Services: expanded coverage of water distribution and wastewater
collection, treatment, and disposal for the urban population of the three largest cities in the
province: i.e., Shijiazhuang, Tangshan, and Handan;
* Institutional Reforms: strengthened financial and management autonomy will enable the
utilities to sustain and expand the provision of essential services for the growing population.
Support for institutional development would ensure the long-term sustainability of the
organizations and of the physical investments.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management:  HPG has established a high level Leading Group to oversee project
preparation and has set up the Hebei Project Management Office (HEPMO) to prepare and
execute the project. The HFB is the lead agency for the project, with support from the
Construction Commission, the Planning Commission, and the Environmental Protection Bureau.
The HEPMO's responsibilities include: (a) overall project coordination, macro-level project
management and monitoring; (b) annual budget preparation; (c) project-wide quality assurance;
(d) progress reporting to HPG and the Bank, including cost management, project impact and
environmental improvement assessment; (e) interagency coordination and procurement support;
and (f) sectional training facilitation. The personnel mix of HEPMO and municipal project offices
would need to be adjusted from time-to-time to reflect the needs of the various phases of the
project, including completion of preparation, tendering phase and project implementation. The
project cities have established Project Management Offices to facilitate and monitor
implementation of the respective project components on behalf of the municipal government.
Implementing Agencies:  The effective implementation of the physical works will be the
responsibility of the following municipal utility companies: newly created and existing Wastewater
Companies (WWCs) would be responsible for implementing the sewerage component, as well as
operating all facilities in the cities. These services traditionally have been provided by municipal
utilities management bureaus, but given the magnitude of the project, the city governments have
recognized the need for establishing autonomous and self-accounting enterprises in the
wastewater sector. Wastewater companies have been established in all three project cities and all
assets have been transferred to them from the municipal drainage offices.
The Water Supply Companies (WSC) in each of the cities would be responsible for implementing
the water supply component. They would be responsible for construction management,
production, operation and maintenance, consumer service and administration of the water supply
systems in their respective jurisdictions. The water supply companies will bill and collect
wastewater charges on behalf of the wastewater companies. The revenues, minus a fee, will be
transfered directly to the wastewater companies.
The industrial pollution control action plan (IPCAP) would be managed by the Hebei
Environmental Protection Bureau (HEPB) and implemented by the municipal EPBs and
wastewater companies.
The International Tendering Company CMC will be retained as the procurement agency for all
aspects of the civil, electrical and mechanical works requiring bidding through international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Design review and advisory and construction management
- 8 -



services would be carried out by an international firm using joint international/national teams.
Construction supervision will be carried out by local supervision companies retained by the
Implementing Agencies.
Onlending Arrangements: The proposed loan of $150 million would be made to the People's
Republic of China. The loan would be for 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans. The Ministry of Finance,
would make the proceeds of the loan available to Hebei Province on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan to China. The Province would onlend to the Municipalities on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to China. The onlending from the Municipalities to
the water supply and wastewater companies would have a total maturity of 15 years, including 5
years grace. The foreign exchange risk will be passed on to the utility companies.
Financial Management: Hebei Province has the required systems and staff to carry out the
financial management of the project. HP already has ongoing Bank Group-financed projects in
other sectors and the HFB is familiar with the Bank Group's disbursement procedures. Hebei
prepared a Financial Management Systems (FMS) Manual, which was found satisfactory to the
Bank. This would be the basis for financial management during project implementation. To
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an authorized allocation of
$10.0 million, equivalent to the estimated average expenditures to be financed by the Bank Group
over a four-month period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the
Bank Group and would be managed by HFB.
Utility Performance Monitoring: In the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) a variety of
monitoring indicators and target dates have been identified for institutional, financial, operational
and technical aspects of the project and utility management. Furthermore, the technical assistance
program with the utility companies include the mainstreaming of benchmarking processes.
Auditing Arrangements: As with other Bank Group-financed projects in China, the Foreign
Investment Audit Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under
the name of State Audit Administration, would have overall responsibility for auditing the
accounts of the project. The actual auditing work would be conducted by the Hebei Provincial
Audit Department under CNAO's supervision. The Bank Group currently accepts audits
performed under the responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the financial statements of implementing
agencies, and audit of the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank group within six
months after the end of the financial year. The audit reports of the implementing agencies would
include opinions on whether the agencies were in compliance with their respective financial
covenants, and whether these agencies had taken out adequate insurance on goods and works
financed from the loan proceeds.
Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation Arrangements: HEPMO has primary responsibility for
monitoring and reporting through quarterly project preparation and implementation progress
reports, based on information compiled from the implementing agencies. Bank supervision of
project implementation will be conducted twice a year by both headquarters and resident mission
staff. During implementation, project performance, including the achievements of project outputs
-9-



and attainment of development objectives, would be monitored through the use of quarterly
reports prepared by HEPMO. The first such monitoring report would be submitted by October
31, 2000 and the last one by July 31, 2007. Also a mid-term review will be undertaken jointly
with the Government to evaluate the project achievements and identify the need for corrective
measures. In addition, an implementation completion report, reviewing the planned objectives
and project achievements, including costs and benefits derived, and performance and contribution
of all parties associated with project execution, would be prepared by HEPMO and submitted to
the Bank Group within six months of the closing date.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Focus: The Government has determined that the focus of this project should be urban
environmental management, and that investments would concentrate on improved wastewater
collection, treatment and disposal, and expansion of water supply services. To reduce pollution
from industrial wastewater discharges, and strengthen environmental management, the project
would support the implementation of a time-bound action program addressing the largest
polluters in and around the project cities. Investments in clean technology, end-of-pipe treatment,
pre-treatment before discharge to the sewers and industrial rationalization would be financed by
Government and industry in parallel with the proposed project.
Project Site Selection: The Government had originally submitted proposals for investments in
six cities, but Bank management expressed concerns about the size and complexity of the
proposed project and the need to reduce the number of project cities. At project formulation,
priority investments in urban environmental services in four cities were identified: Shijiazhuang,
Tangshan, Handan and Qinghuangdao. Subsequently, project proposals were prepared by HPG
and the Municipalities, assisted by international consultants, with regard to their technical,
institutional and economical viability. At a late stage in project preparation, Qinghuangdao city
was withdrawn from the project, reportedly due to counterpart funding problems.
Wastewater and Water Supply Options: The proposed project calls for the construction of water
supply and wastewater disposal facilities. The balance between water supply and wastewater
disposal services levels was examined in considerable detail. It was ensured that the project cities
that had proposed water supply projects for Bank funding were adequately addressing wastewater
treatment and that any Bank-funded water supply project was not aggravating the wastewater
situation in the city. Consequently, it was concluded that several complementary wastewater
projects must be undertaken, either independently or with Bank support, in two of the cities
where water supply projects had been proposed. The project supports sewage treatment with a
capacity of 750,00 m3/day which is triple the capacity of water supply financed in the three cities.
The extent of sewage treatment has been reviewed in the light of the limited assimilative capacity
of the adjacent streams and rivers and secondary treatment has been justified. Alternative
wastewater treatment processes were considered and cost comparisons were undertaken as part
of project preparation to determine the optimal solution and the adequate level of treatment to
meet the health standards and water quality targets.
- 10-



Non-Government Sources of Funding: Alternatives to public financing of the proposed
investments were considered, in particular the scope for private sector financing of urban
infrastructure. However, private sector participation, e.g. in form of a build-operate-transfer
(BOT) schemes, is currently limited to pilot programs. HPG wants to await the outcome of this
pilot before entering in any private sector deals. Hence, the option for private sector financing is
not available for the proposed investments, however should be considered for future investments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
LatesLt Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
I                 I                            W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Bank-financed projecfs onhfly
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Urban Environment: Water,         China: Yunnan Urban               S             S
wastewater, sanitation, solid waste,    Environment Project
industrial pollution              (Ln.4055/Cr.2892)
Urban Environment: Water,         China: Guangxi Urban              S             S
wastewater, sanitation, solid waste,    Environment Project
industrial pollution              (Ln.4348/Cr.3097)
Wastewater & tariff reform policy  China: Second Shanghai           HS            S
Sewerage Project (Ln.3987)
Urban Development: Water, urban   China: Zhejiang Multicities       S             S
upgrading, land development, cultural  Development Project (Cr.2457)
heritage
Delivery, management and operations  China: Shanghai Environment     S            S
of large water supply and wastewater  Project(Ln.371 1)
systems, industrial pollution control
Pollution Control through improved    China: Hubei Urban            U             U
urban wastewater management and   Environment Project
pollution control at major industries.  (Ln.3966/Cr.2799)
Other development agencies
The Asian Development Bank has    Reported to have been generally
financed several investment programs in successful investment program
the urban sector of China, mainly
supporting urban environmental
services, in cities that do not overlap
with World Bank supported programs
- 11 -



Bilateral support from a number of  These investments have
sources including KfW and the      generally been successfully
Govermnents of Austria, Australia,    implemented, though attention
Finland and Denmark, has financed  has not been paid to
equipment for urban water supply,  institutional and financial
wastewater and industrial waste    matters. Finance has been
treatment plants                   available mainly to support
equipment sourced
(restrictively) from the lending
country
The Department for Intemational    Performance has been reported
Development-DFID (United Kingdom) to be satisfactory
has provided support on institutional
and financial development needs of
urban utilities, and on broad aspects of
environmental management
The Govemment of Japan has financed  Perfonnance is reported to be
equipment for urban water supply,  satisfactory. However,
wastewater and industrial waste    financial policies are not
treatment plants.                  developed
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Greater Reliance on User Charges: A major finding from the OED review of Bank water and
sanitation projects has been a generally good achievement of physical targets, but less success in
sustaining the financial viability of municipal services. This is in line with the findings from a
recent sector work on China ("Urban Environmental Service Management," Report
#13073-CHA). This report notes the need for greater reliance on user charges and concludes that
such charges would be affordable and would encourage resource conservation and create a more
dependable income stream. Tariff reforms and improvement of operational efficiency have been a
centerpiece of the policy dialogue with the Hebei Government. Adjustments of tariff levels, prior
and during implementation, are an integral part of the project design.
Timing of Tariff Increases: Previous urban environment projects in China have frequently
encountered difficulties in implementing agreed tariff increases in a timely manner, sometimes
delaying loan or credit effectiveness. Tariff increases often represent politically difficult decisions
for local governments, but are critical for the sustainability of the project. This project has
required that substantial tariff adjustments be implemented during the preparation stage (four of
the five cities have already approved and implemented tariff increases). Two further increases are
expected prior to negotiations. Written assurances were obtained from the municipal governments
that they will further increase tariffs during project implementation as per schedule agreed with
the Bank.
- 12 -



Support for institutional reform: The establishment of financially autonomous utility enterprises
to develop and manage urban services is a long-standing Chinese practice, and avoids many of the
management difficulties of publicly owned utilities in other countries. However, wastewater
companies have only recently been given the same autonomy generally by absorbing the existing
drainage bureaus and construction management units already active in the sector into separate
enterprises. The prior experience of these bureaus will certainly benefit the transition, but
substantial levels of technical assistance will be needed to strengthen the new companies'
managerial, financial and operational capacities.
Industrial Pollution Control: Experience with funding for industrial pollution control (IPC) has
been geiierally disapppointing, such as in the Zhejiang Multicities project and Hubei Urban
Environment project. Therefore, no Bank funding for industrial pollution control has been
included in the project design. However, the impact of industrial discharges on the local
environment is considerable. Without any action on IPC may undo the environmental benefits of
the municipal treatment works and endanger the water resources for the cities' water supply. So
far, the IPCAP approach has proven to be reasonably successful in dealing with the pollution from
major industries. This also keeps the Bank involved in IPC during project implementation.
Extent of technical assistance: Full utilization of TA funds by borrowers at the local level
remains problematic in the China urban portfolio. The costs of the identified TA packages are
modest in terms of percentage of total project costs. Since the technical assistance is essential for
achieving the project objectives, the main TA packages will be procured under retroactive
financing arrangements and are part of the conditions of disbursement.
Sufficient Preparation Time and Budget: Experience in China has shown that first-time projects
demand significantly greater time and monetary investments in the preparatory and initial
implementation phases than those managed by experienced project offices. As this would be the
Bank Group's first involvement in the urban environmental services sector in HP, a longer lead
time was needed to develop clear understandings of institutional and services delivery
arrangements. Adequate time and resources have been allocated for preparation of the project,
with 30% of the contracts fully designed and tender documents prepared. Five contracts will be
implemented under retroactive financing as well as technical assistance would be available at an
early stage for construction supervision and quality control and strengthening of institutional and
financial management.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
HP has demonstrated excellent commitment to the proposed project as evidenced by: (i) regular
involvement by the high level Leading Group, headed by the Vice Governor, to support
institutional reformn and tariff increases; (ii) excellent performance by the provincial and municipal
project management offices during the preparation of the proposed project; (iii) major upfront
actions on institutional reform in the wastewater subsector and substantial tariff increases for both
water supply and wastewater; (iv) investment of considerable provincial and municipal resources
in the preparation of comprehensive feasibility studies for an extended period; and (v) hiring of
top class local design institutes for technical studies as well as safeguard policies.
- 13 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank Group brings considerable international experience to assist in policy formulation and
investment program design, in particular with respect to economic, financial and institutional
analyses and systematic consideration of alternatives. Bank Group assistance will also draw on
our growing experience in addressing institutional and financial reform within water supply and
wastewater utilities. Bank Group assistance in the design phase enabled the Province and project
entities to widen the scope of possible options, find more cost-effective solutions than the ones
originally considered, maximize environmental impact of treatment facilities and introduce energy
saving opportunities with significant financial benefits. The Bank Group involvement will enhance
the construction quality control of the physical investments, accelerate institutional strengthening
and training, and contribute its considerable experience in bringing about meaningful utility reform
in the sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Project Benefits. The physical infrastructure components will strengthen the reliability of water
supplies to the three largest urban centers cities in Hebei and will mitigate the effects of
over-abstraction from ground water sources. By treating wastewater and removing it from the
city centers, the project components will improve the quality of available surface water resources
and improve the environmental conditions in the cities. Investments in wastewater are first steps
towards long term clean up of the rivers. Approximately 400,000 people will directly benefit
from the completion of the Handan wastewater and water supply components; approximately
640,000 people will benefit from the completion of the Shijiazhuang wastewater component; and
approximately 570,000 people will benefit from the completion of the Tangshan wastewater and
water supply components.
An important benefit of the project is that it will promote institutional and financial reforms for
the water and wastewater utilities, and for the relevant municipal offices. The project will also
contribute to financial and operational management capacity building. This will not only
contribute to the long term sustainability of the project, but put in place permanent mechanisms
for the local governments and utilities to improve water supply and wastewater service delivery.
Economic Viability. Although an attempt has been made to quantify the project benefits, the
choice for priority interventions for the project has been guided by cost effectiveness
considerations. A least cost analysis was undertaken for all the project components and least cost
solutions were selected among the alternative technologies available, with the exclusion of the
Handan wastewater for which a marginally more costly option was selected, because of easiness
of operation and maintenance of the facilities.
- 14 -



Economic Internal Rates of Returns (EIRRs) were estimated for the two water supply
components. In the case of the wastewater components, benefits are difficult to quantify, hence
the calculation of the EIRRs has not been attempted. Average incremiental economic costs
(AIEC) were calculated for all components.
Water problems in the project cities is caused by over-extraction of groundwater, insufficient
projected water quantities to meet growing demand, and in some cases, unreliable supply. The
water supply components will benefit customers by improving the quantity and reliability of
water supplies, and quality of the water supplied.
Both water projects are economically viable. EIRR are 14.4% in Tangshan and 12.9% in
Handan. Additional non-quantifiable benefits, particularly arising form a reduction of
over-extraction of groundwater, would lead to higher EIRRs. The EIRRs for the two water
components are most sensitive to a reduction in the project benefits, while the AICs are most
sensitive in variations in the capital costs.
The main benefit of the wastewater components will be an increase in the amount of sewage
treated, and hence an improvement in ambient water quality in the receiving water bodies and in
the future quality of underground water. There will be improved drainage of sewage and storm
water from the built-up area, which will improve the sanitary conditions within the cities.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
In order to determine the financial viability of the water supply project components in Handan
and Tangshan, the financial rate of return (FRR) was calculated. An analysis of the cost
effectiveness and subsidy requirements of both the water supply and wastewater project
components has also been undertaken. The average incremental financial cost (AIFC), which is
an approximation of the long run marginal cost, was calculated. The present value is calculated
by discounting all cash flows at the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). In order to
identify those factors posing the greatest risk to the financial viability of the Project, an analysis
of the sensitivity of FRR and AIFC to adverse changes in selected key variables was also
undertaken.
Financial Viability. The FRRs for the Handan and Tangshan water supply components are 8.8
percent and 9.8 percent respectively, both above the WACC. Therefore, the water supply project
components are considered to be financially viable. The AIFCs for the Handan and Tangshan
water supply components are Yl.66/m3 and Y1.34/m3 compared to average 2014 tariff levels
YO.93/m3 and YO.95/m3 respectively. The difference between the AIFC and the average tariff
represents a financial subsidy. Most of this subsidy is provided in the form of the equity
contributions by each municipality toward the capital cost of the project. The AIFCs for the
three wastewater components also exceed the average tariff in 2014. However, while the AIFC
is calculated on the basis of the volume of wastewater treated, the average tariff is based on the
total volume of wastewater generated. Since all piped and self-supplied water consumers pay the
wastewater tariff, regardless of whether they are actually discharging into the sewer system, the
-15 -



required tariff is lower than the AIFC.
In the case of the two water supply components, the sensitivity analysis indicates that the
FRR is most sensitive to a reduction in incremental revenues. This highlights the importance
that tariffs be increased in accordance with the required implementation schedule. In the case
of the Handan and Tangshan wastewater components, the AIFC is most sensitive to a one
year delay in project completion. The AIFC for the Shijiazhuang wastewater component is
most sensitive to an increase in capital cost.
Public Utility Financial Reforms. A major component of the project is the development and
implementation of a comprehensive financial reform program by each project company. Each has
implemented enterprise accounting systems in order to enable more effective financial
management, particularly over receivables. Under these new systems, affiliated non-core business
activities have been clearly separated from those of the core water supply and wastewater
functions. Previous exemptions from the payment of user charges provided by some of the
companies to specific customer groups have been terminated.  Tariff increases have been
implemented in advance of project implementation and the largest proportion of the additional
increases required are concentrated in the first two years of project implementation. These
up-front tariff increases not only ensure the longer-term financial sustainability of the companies
more effectively, but they will also enable them to contribute toward the counterpart funding
requirements of the project. The water supply companies will contribute about 25 percent of the
cost of the project while the wastewater companies will contribute between 10 percent and 15
percent of the project cost from internally generated funds.
Recent reforms at both the state and provincial government levels have significantly enhanced the
ability of the water and wastewater companies to implement their financial reform programs. The
HPG, through the Hebei Provincial Price Bureau (HPB), has been working toward establishing
policies and regulations to set wastewater tariffs consistent with State Circular No. 1192
concerning financial reforms in the wastewater sector. Consistent with these reforms, in January
2000, the HPB delegated authority to set water and wastewater tariffs in the three project cities
directly to each respective municipal government and their price bureaus. Furthermore, these
up-front tariff increases, combined with further increases over the project implementation period,
will significantly reduce existing pricing distortions and thereby promote more efficient water
consumption pattems.
Public Utility Financial Projections. Consistent with the financial reforms, the objectives set by
the municipalities for their water supply and wastewater utility companies are to achieve full cost
recovery on their operations, maintain debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times, and, in the case
of the water supply companies, to generate funds sufficient to cover at least 20 percent of their
capital investment programs. In order to achieve these objectives for 2000, the companies began
implementing tariff increases in 1999. Financial projections have been prepared for each company
indicating the levels of tariffs required to meet these objectives. Due to the lower levels of cost
recovery presently achieved by the wastewater companies, required increases in wastewater tariffs
are higher than that for water supply. Based on agreed upon tariffs to be implemented in 2000,
the increases in wastewater tariffs to 2006 in Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan are 90 percent,
- 16 -



and 100 percent and 135 percent respectively. The required increases in water tariffs over this
same period are 60 percent in Tangshan and 65 percent in Handan.
An analysis of the impact of these increases on low income domestic groups indicates that the
tariffs are affordable in that the combined cost of water and sanitation does not exceed 5 percent
of household income. In all three cities, the proportion of income allocated to water and
sanitation by a low income household is projected to peak in 2004 at 3.1 percent in Handan, 3.4
percent in Shijiazhuang and 4.4 percent in Tangshan before declining gradually thereafter.
Fiscal Impact:
Municipal Finances. In order to assess the ability of the project cities to provide counterpart
funds, total municipal revenues and the portion of revenues that is specifically available for capital
investments have been compared to required project contributions. The analysis indicates that the
project components are affordable in all cities, though more onerous in the case of Handan. As a
proportion of total municipal revenues, the requirement for project counterpart funds varies
between 2.5 percent in Handan (3.5 percent in the peak year), 1.8 percent in Tangshan (3.0
percent in the peak year), and 1.1 percent in Shijiazhuang (1.9 percent in the peak year). When
considering only revenues that can be earmarked for the purpose of capital expenditure, which is
an approximation of the city's financial capacity to contribute to the project, the incidence of the
project counterpart funds varies between 12.8 percent on average in Handan (17.8 percent in the
peak year, 2003), 7.4 percent in Tangshan (12.1 percent in the peak year, 2000), and 4.4 percent
in Shijiazhuang (7.2 percent in the peak year, 2000). The counterpart contributions required from
all three cities are well within generally accepted limits of affordability.
3. Technical:
Project Design. HEPMO has retained the services of A-class Chinese design institutes which,
assisted by international consultants and municipal design institutes, will prepare the engineering
designs, cost estimates and bid documents. International consultants have verified all basic data
and assumptions for accuracy and practicality. Where possible, wastewater flow data and the like
were supported by measurements in the field. Selection of technology and materials have been
based on operational experience, taking into account the specific conditions in the project cities
and cost efficiency (both capital and recurrent costs). The technologies involved are proven and
within the capability of Chinese contractors and manufacturers if successful in winning bids.
Cost Estimates. Base cost estimates of the project reflect preliminary and detailed designs and
price levels prevailing in January 2000. The unit prices were derived from: (a) quotations
obtained from manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts;
and (c) construction costs according to prices published by the Central and Hebei governments,
all adjusted for inflation. Survey cost have been taken at 1 percent of civil works, design
preparation at 3 percent of cost of civil works and equipment, and construction supervision at 3
percent of the works and goods. Project management and engineering overhead costs of 3
percent have also been included. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to base
costs for all components. Price contingencies have been applied to expenditures at projected
global foreign and local inflation rates, as follows: local: 2.0 percent in 2000; 5.0 percent in 2001
- 17 -



and thereafter; foreign: 1.6 percent in 2000; 2.5 percent in 2001, 2.6 percent in 2002, and 2.5
percent thereafter.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The project will be implemented by five municipally owned utilities. The water supply companies
of Handan and Tangshan have been in operation for years and will be fully responsible for the
implementation of both the construction and operational phases of the schemes. The wastewater
components in Tangshan, Handan and Shijiazhuang will also be implemented by three recently
incorporated enterprises, established based on the 1995 Company Law. These companies, with
the exclusion of Tangshan, were established during project preparation.
Financial and institutional reforms are essential to promote the long term sustainability of the
project, as well as to improve efficiency and service delivery. A description of recent
organizational changes implemented by the project companies is summarized in Annex 5.
As wastewater and drainage services have traditionally been provided by government
departments, the reform process in this sector is bound to be slower and more cumbersome than
in the water sector, but several steps have been taken in the project cities over the last year, to
accelerate the pace of these reforms. In particular: (i) wastewater functions are now separated
from that of municipal departments and sewage collection and treatment have been reorganized
under the responsibility of newly formed, or strengthened, companies established under the 1995
Company Law; (ii) for the wastewater companies, all senior management officials have been
appointed and the Board of Directors and of Supervisors has been established; (iii) the required
revaluation and transfers of assets have been completed for all companies; (iv) all companies have
implemented enterprise accounting, although not yet fully on an accrual basis; (v) joint billing for
water and wastewater has been implemented in all cities; and (vi) all incomes collected by the
water supply or the water saving offices are now transferred directly to the wastewater companies
rather than being channeled through the municipal finance bureaus.
The project assumes that all companies will be responsible for repaying the Bank's loan. In the
case of wastewater companies it is expected that they will be able to recover operating and
maintenance costs, depreciation and contribute to part of the capital requirements (for an amount
varying between 10 percent to 15 percent). In the case of the water company, a contribution of
25 percent to capital investment has been assumed. This is a major departure from the past, in
particular in the case of wastewater, where full subsidies of capital and operating costs by
municipal governments have been the predominant practice.
Tariff increases for all consumer categories have been approved and implemented for all the
Companies. Further tariff increases are also planned for Shijiazhuang. All exemptions have been
eliminated and all consumers are requested to pay for the service received.
- 18 -



The project companies are at different stages of development and there are obvious differences in
their management capability, experience and use of technology. In each case, however, there is
significant scope for further institutional development and performance improvement. During
project preparation, Institutional Action Plans (IAP) were developed for each company and
agreed with Municipal Governments. The implementation of these action plans has been
covenanted. Annex 13 include a sample of a draft IAP.
While reforms are being implemented at the company level, there is a need to also change the
procedures and responsibilities of the municipal departments in charge of supervising and
regulating the sector. The IAPs and the technical assistance component under the project, will
also support the municipal government departments on matters related to the companies'
supervision and methods for price setting.
b. Project management:
Project Management: The organization for the management of the project and staffing for the
Hebei PMO, city PMOs and Implementing Agencies (lAs) are outlined in detail in the Project
Implementation Report. Assurances have been obtained concerning further strengthening to
ensure adequate capacity and budgets during implementation. Institutional strengthening and
training program forms an integral part of the proposed project as it ensures the long-term
sustainability of the project entities and adequate operation and maintenance of the existing
facilities as well as the assets created under the project. Both HEPMO and some of the utilities
have implemented internationally funded projects in the water and sanitation sector in the past
and, therefore, are equipped with the knowledge, skills and equipment necessary to carry out their
mandate. Institutions which are likely to take part in the program include the HEPMO, city
PMOs, EPBs, water supply companies, wastewater companies, supervision companies and
monitoring institutions for EAs and RAPs.
5. Social:
Land acquisition and resettlement. About 90 hectares of land would need to be acquired for
the project components and some 130 households will require resettlement. No minority issues
have been identified. The total cost of the program is about $18 million. Resettlement impacts
have been identified and resettlement action plans (RAPs) have been prepared, addressing issues
related to entitlements of affected people (see Annex 12). The resettlement requirements of the
project are relatively small, and considering the good experiences in other urban projects and the
strong commitment of the local authorities to the safeguard policies, it is unlikely that any
significant problems will be encountered.
- 19 -



6. Environmental assessment:          Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
An environmental assessment (EA) has been carried out for HUEP. During preparation and
evaluation, national procedures including those set out in China's Circular on "Strengthening
Impact Assessment Management for Construction Projects Financed by International
Organizations (1993)," as well as those required by the Bank Group, were diligently followed.
The EA documents such as Environmental Assessment Report and Executive Summary have been
prepared, incorporating Bank group comments, and found to be satisfactory. A detailed annex
covering environmental assessment and impact has been prepared (Annex 11), which summarizes
the finding of the Chinese EAs on the various project components and reflects the appraisal
mission findings.
Potential Impacts: The environmental impact of the project is, on balance, substantially positive
and the benefits greatly outweigh the negative impacts. The project would reduce pollution loads
in the Fuyang, Xiao and Quilonghe rivers, allow for the replacement of poor-quality water supply
sources as well as eliminate groundwater mining practices (Handan). Major potential impacts
during the construction phase include excavation, dust, noise, spoil disposal and disruption of
urban services. Impacts during the operational phase include sludge disposal, noise, and odors.
Mitigation Measures: The EA specified the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements and training and equipment requirements, and the
cost estimate of implementing the mitigation measures. Major mitigation measures include
controls on construction practice, careful siting of facilities with appropriate buffer zones and
controls on noise. The EMPs have been mainstreamed into the Project Implementation Plan.
Public Consultation and Feedback: During the EA work, local people were consulted. The
following approaches were used for public consultation: (a) consultation meetings with local
government representatives; and (b) questionnaire analysis of public opinion, supplemented by
interviews. Major concerns from the public were resettlement-related issues and noise and air
pollution during the construction phase. Details of the public consultation process are presented
in Annex 11.
Information Disclosure: The Environmental Assessment Report (EA) and Executive Summary
were submitted to the Bank Group on January 25, 2000; the Resettlement Action Plan was
submitted on January 28, 2000. Both reports were reviewed and found satisfactory. The detailed
EA reports and EA summary report were sent to the Bank's Public  Information Center on
February 4, 2000 and copies are in the project files. These documents also have been available to
the public in Hebei. The details of the information disclosure during EA and RAP preparation are
provided in Annex 11.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
- 20 -



The major beneficiaries would be the majority of the population, institutions and industries of
Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan, who would enjoy enhanced water supply, and a cleaner
environment through wastewater collection, treatment and proper disposal. The implementing
agencies would also benefit through the institutional and financial reform incorporated into the
project as well as from the associated technical assistance. The cities would benefit, overall,
through improved city management from implementing cost-effective tariffs and charges for these
services.
b. Other key stakeholders:
During EA preparation, local communities were consulted through meetings with local
government representatives, and public opinion questionnaires supplemented by interviews.
The project has been designed to yield social benefits to all income groups. Project focus on
environmental service provision to meet basic needs would provide a sustainable and equitable
basis for underpinning economic development of lower income and underserved groups.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable in three respects: (i) financially; (ii) institutionally; and
(iii) technically. The tariff reforms, now strongly supported by the Government, will enhance the
viability of municipal service providers, particularly the newly created wastewater companies.
The establishment of automous utility companies is also supported by the state and provincial
Governments. Finally, the project addresses an issue of high priority to both the local and the
national government, i.e., vital self-interest in achieving affordable basic urban services within
conducive environmental conditions necessary for sustained economic growth whereby water
resources become an increasing scarce commodity.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Ratina           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Complementary pollution reduction           M         Implementation of the IPCAP will ensure that
efforts in industry are not implemented               major sources of pollution will be dealt with and
outlined water quality objectives achieved
Utility companies may not be able to bear   S         Governments are committed to the financial
the foreign exchange risk                             performance targets of the utilities and adjust
the tariffs annually.
From Components to Outputs
Autonomous wastewater organizations         M         Companies created prior to appraisal, including
assets transfers
- 21 -



Financial sustainability of water and       M          Upfront tariffs increases, further increases
wastewater companies not maintained                    covenanted and written commitment from
municipal leaders. Comprehensive institutional
strengthening assistance. Institutional and
financial perfornance to be core activity of
project supervision
Improvement in user charge collection       M          Combined billing of water and sewer charges as
collection efficiency may progress slower             well as more pronounced government policies on
than projected                                         cost recovery for basic utility services
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
While at State and Provincial level the need for corporatization of utilities is fully understood and
supported, the special interests at municipal level as well as the direct personal implications of
enterprise reform may encounter resistance with the danger of "reform on paper" only. Sustained
efforts by both the Government and the Bank during project implemenitation are needed to
overcome these hurdles.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the project cities and their water supply and
wastewater companies, satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement Condition
* The signing of contracts with consultant firms for (i) institutional and financial technical
assistance; and (ii) design review advisory and construction management and quality control
technical assistance, is a condition of disbursement of the civil works category.
Implementation Covenants
At negotiations, assurances would be sought from HPG that it would:
*   implement the Institutional Strengthening component in accordance with a schedule
acceptable to the Bank Group, and discuss and agree upon any revisions with the Bank
Group;
*   carry out or cause to be carried out the resettlement of persons affected by the project in a
manner and according to the Resettlement Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank Group;
- 22 -



* cause the project agencies to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank Group, the
mitigation plans specified in the Environmental Assessment;
* maintain the Project Management Office and municipal project offices throughout
implementation, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank Group, and with
competent staff in adequate numbers for the duration of the project;
* carry out, or cause to be carried out, a time-bound Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
satisfactory to the Bank Group; and
Financial Covenants
At negotiations, assurances would be sought from HPG that it would:
* cause the municipalities to onlend part of the loan proceeds to their respective water supply
and wastewater agencies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group;
* arrange for the following annual audits to be submitted to the Bank Group within six months
after the end of the financial year: (a) audit of the project accounts maintained by PMO; (b)
audit of the Special Account; (c) audits of the financial statements of the water supply
companies of Tangshan and Handan; and (d) audits of the wastewater companies of
Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan;
* cause the water supply companies of Tangshan and Handan to: (a) produce revenues from
their water supply operations sufficient to cover operations and maintenance costs (before
depreciation), increases in working capital, debt service, and a minimum 20 percent of the
average capital expenditures made in a three-year period (the year preceding the reference
year, the reference year itself, and the year after the reference year), taking actions to meet
requirements; (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's agreement, unless a
reasonable forecast shows that it would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times; and
(c) apply tariff increases, when implemented, to all categories of consumers;
*  cause the wastewater companies of Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan to: (a) produce
revenues from their wastewater operations sufficient to cover operations and maintenance
costs (including depreciation), and the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the
provision for depreciation; (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's agreement,
unless a reasonable forecast shows that it would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3
times; and (c) to take necesssary steps to ensure tariff increases apply to all categories;
* cause the water supply and wastewater companies to prepare, before September 30, 2001,
and in each of the following fiscal years, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank Group; and (a)
review whether they would meet the covenanted requirements set fourth above in each such
year and the following fiscal year; and (b) furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank
Group, and if any such reviews would show that the entity would not meet the requirements
set out above, the entity would take all necessary measures, including adjustments to the
- 23 -



structure of its tariffs and charges to meet the requirements.
Reporting and Monitoring
At negotiations, assurances would be sought from HPG that it would:
* cause each implementing agency to prepare quarterly project progress reports; the Project
Management Office would then send a consolidated report to the Bank Group by the thirtieth
of the following month, commencing December 31, 2000;
* carry out with the Bank Group a mid-term review of the project by June 30, 2003, and
implement, or cause to be implemented, agreed recommendations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
N 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
N 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
K 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The project is well prepared, whereby all stakeholders, provincial and municipal governments as
well as the implementing utility companies have been extensively involved. Detailed designs and
tender documents have been prepared for 12 contract packages, of which 5 will be implemented
under retroactive financing arrangements (US$5 million). A detailed Project Implementation Plan
has been prepared, outlining all aspects of procurement, implementation schedules, project
management, and financial management. Most implementing agencies have experience with
internationally funded projects (bilateral or multilateral) and have allocated well qualified and
experienced staff for the implementation of the project.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
N 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
oOR40es               ___NKs~~Arma                        Yukon Huang
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Safeguard environment and   Ambient environment      EPB statistics for water and   River pollution from
public health through     conditions in Hebei improved land environmental quality   non-project related sources
alleviation of urban                                                            does not increase. Migration
environmental infrastructure                                                   to urban centers is within
constraints                                                                     controllable trends
Environment related health   Bureau of Public Health
problems reduced.
Urban environmental       Statistics of the Construction
infrastructure supply meets   Commission
demand.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Protect quality of Hebei's    Reduction of pollution load   Statistics of Hebei EPB  Parallel efforts to manage
rivers and provide safe water  from urban sources                              industrial pollution and land
to project cities. Provide                                                      use are implemented
adequate wastewater disposal
arrangements on a sustainable
basis to growing population
Expansion of supply of safe   Statistics of Water Supply
water to meet demand from    Companies
domestic and industrial
sectors
Improvement of financial  Audited financial statements, Timely tariff adjustments to
viability of municipal service  annual financial projections   maintain viability are
providers.                                           implemented
- 25 -



-
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Market oriented pricing and   Ratio of actual tariff to cost   Companies' financial  Government maintains tariffs
financial management are    recovery tariff is increased    statements. Project  at cost recovery levels for all
introduced                                           supervision missions       utilities
Infrastructure capacity for    Volume increase for:  Hebei statistics and company  Upstream industrial pollution
wastewater and water supply  wastewater collected, safe    reports and periodic reports  is contained
is increased              water supplied, number of
small and medium industries
adopting cleaner technology
Cost-effective wastewater  Long-term water resource   Statistics of Hebei EPB   Pilot experience disseminated
pollution abatement measures strategy developed and                             and adopted throughout
are undertaken in industry    number of staff trained in                        Hebei's industry sector
water quality monitoring
Water Quality Monitoring and Long-term water resource  Hebei EPB                Long-term strategy is being
Management strengthened    strategy developed and EPB                           implemented
municipal staff trained in
water quality monitoring
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Achievement of planned
activities
Wastewater management     Percentage of sewage collected Project Progress Reports,  Wastewater companies are
and treated.              supervision missions, data of  established and sustained
Percentage nutrient removal  companies and HiEPB
Water Supply management   Supplies increased to meet                            Tariffs timely and adequately
demand; water quality                                adjusted to maintain financial
improved                                             viability
Industrial Pollution Control   Reduction in pollution load   Progress reports, data from
Action Plan               from key industries        industries, EPB monitoring
reports
Technical Assistance for tariff Improvements in accounting                      Government's commitment to
reform, utilities, and EPB  and MIS, numbers of                                 TA fund utilization
management and staff trained
-26 -



Annex 2: Project Description
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
1.    Hebei Province is located in the north east of China, covering an area of
188,000 kmi, and has a population of approximately 66 million. The province is bound by Shanxi
Province to the west, Inner Mongolia to the north, Henan and Shandong Provinces to the south,
Tianjin and the Bohai Sea to the east and Liaoning Province to the north east. Hebei effectively
surrounds the administrative areas of Beijing and Tianjin, and they are therefore economically and
socially interdependent. The province has a semi-arid continental climate, characterized by low
annual rainfall, cold winters and warm summers.
2.    Hebei lies within the basin of the Hai River and is severely deficient in water resources.
The rivers, reservoirs and groundwater resources have difficulty in meeting growing demands
from agriculture and for domestic and industrial consumption. Groundwater levels are falling as
demands exceed sustainable replenishment rates, and water frequently has to be extracted from
polluted rivers or piped from distant sources. Failure to improve the efficiency of water use will
require more costly water transmission from even more distant sources. Economic and industrial
growth in Hebei has resulted in degradation of the limited water resources. The generally low
assimilative capacity of watercourses in Hebei, coupled with inadequate wastewater treatment,
has resulted in a severe decline in surface water quality.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$109.30 million
Shijiazhuang Wastewater
3.    Existing Situation. Shijiazhuang is both the provincial capital and the largest city in the
province, and is one of China's most water resource-deficient cities. The two principal
watercourses in the urban area of Shijiazhuang are the Futuo and Xiao rivers.
4.    The Xiao river flows eastwards to meet the Fuyang river downstream of Handan and
receives discharges of municipal and industrial wastewater from the cities and counties through
which it flows. The most significant discharges are those from Shijiazhuang, amounting to
approximately 900,000 mn/day. Part of the wastewater from Shijiazhuang is treated to secondary
standard but the majority receives no treatment. The Xiao river has become a de facto
wastewater discharge channel, and the water quality is considerably worse than even the least
stringent Class V standard. At present, only 160,000 cubic meters per day (m /day) or 16 percent
of the wastewater produced in Shijiazhuang, is treated in the existing Xiao treatment works.
5.    There are four drainage systems serving the urban area, the West Bridge sewerage system,
East Bridge sewerage system, Changan sewerage system, and the North drainage system of Shijin
channel, none of which is a completely separate system. The total length of open channels
amounts to 37.4 km, and flood-proof dikes amount to 32 km. There are 20 sewage pump
stations.
- 27 -



6.    Proposed Wastewater Subcomponent (Y976.8 million; $109.3 million). The proposed
subcomponent will comprise the following works:
*  Sewer interceptors with a total length of 27.9 km, connecting to the proposed wastewater
treatment plant at the southwestern edge of the city;
*  Conventional activated sludge sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 500,000 m'/day,
including sludge digesters and energy recovery; and
*  Secondary sewer program, including link sewers, with a total length of 12.3 km.
Project Component 2 - US$43.50 million
Tangshan Water Supply
7.    Existing Situation. The major water resource for Tangshan is the Douhe Reservoir on
the Douhe river about 22 km from the city. The reservoir is filled mainly by water transfers from
the Panjiakou and Daheiting multi-purpose reservoirs. Water quality in the reservoir is good,
generally meeting Class II water quality standard, but is showing signs of eutrophication.
8.    The current water supply system consists of the Bejaio Water Treatment Plant with a
capacity of 220,000 m'/day, fed from the Douhe Reservoir, 180,000 m3/day of groundwater and
surface from six different plants in the city, and a distribution network of 516 km.
9.    Proposed Water Supply Subcomponent (Y390.2 million, $43.5 million).  The
proposed subcomponent will comprise the following works:
* Raw water intake pumping station, with capacity of 160,000 mnIday, at Douhe reservoir some
15 km north of the city
-  Raw water transmission main of pre-stressed concrete with diameter DN 1400 mm and total
length of 19 km;
*  Water treatment plant, with capacity of 150,000 m3/day; and
*  Distribution network strengthening with a total length of 9.5 km pipes, varying in diameter
from DN 600-1200 mm.
Project Component 3 - US$ 30.90 million
Tangshan Wastewater
10.   Existing Situation. The wastewater drainage of Tangshan central is divided into the East
separate sewerage system that serves the East part of central Tangshan; and the West separate
sewerage system that serves the western sections. The newly constructed secondary treatment
plant with a capacity of 150,000 m`/day (East Suburb WWTP) serves the East collection system.
Also, the secondary treatment plant under construction with a capacity of 150,000 m'/day (North
Suburb WWTP) will serve the East sewerage system. Both raw wastewater and treated
- 28 -



wastewater in the East system are discharged into the Douhe River. The West Suburb WWTP
with capacity of 36,000 mr/day is serving the West part of central Tangshan. Wastewater volume
in the West drainage system is about 90,000 m3/day and is expected to reach 155,200 m`/day by
the year 2005. The wastewater is all discharged into the Qinglonghe Stream, which is seasonal
with no base flow. Only about one-third of the wastewater discharged to the stream is currently
treated, and the water quality is 'therefore considerably worse than Class V.
11.   Proposed Wastewater Subcomponent (Y262.1 million; $30.9 million). The proposed
subcomponent will comprise the following works:
*  Sewer interceptors with diameters varying from DN 1000-1800 mm, and a total length of 6.1
km, connecting to the proposed wastewater treatment plant at the southeastern edge of the
city;
*  Conventional activated sludge sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 120,000 m3/day,
including sludge treatment and composting facilities; and
*  Secondary sewer program, including link sewers, with diameters varying from DN 300-800
mm, and a total length of 13.5 km.
Project Component 4 - US$42.70 million
Handan Water Supply
12.   Existing Situation. Handan is the smallest of the three project cities, with an urban
population of about 0.8 million. Supplies to Handan are from groundwater; the multi-purpose
Yuecheng reservoir on the Zhang river at the Hebei/Henan border; the Dongwushi reservoir on
the Fuyang river upstream of Handan; and from direct abstractions from the Fuyang, which flows
through the Handan urban area.
13.   Dongwushi reservoir is located up the Fuyang River with storage of 152 million m and is
used as a water supply for Handan industry and irrigation. The average annual inflow of the
reservoir is about 366 million m . Yuecheng reservoir is located at the midstream of the Zhang
River, on the border of Hebei Province and Henan Province. It provides water to Handan city
and Anyang city, and irrigates a crop area of 1.56 million Mu. The water quality of Yuecheng
reservoir is quite good, meeting Class II standards.
14.   The existing well fields are generally extracting groundwater and the supply capacity will
be reduced once the new water supply facilities are in operation. There are three municipal water
plants (No. 1, No. 2 and No. 4 water plants) pumping groundwater with a total capacity of
24,500 m3/day, and one plant intake for water from the Fuyang River (No. 3 water plant) with a
capacity of 120,000 m 3/day. Recently, the No. 1 water plant was taken off-line.
15.   Proposed Water Supply Subcomponent (Y380.9 million; $42.7 million).  The
proposed subcomponent will comprise the following works:
- 29 -



*  Raw water intake works, with a capacity of 120,000 m3/day, at Yuecheng reservoir some 60
km south of Handan city;
*  Gravity raw water transmission main of pre-stressed concrete pipe, with a diameter varying
from DN 1200-1400 mm and a total length of 56.6 km;
* Phase II of Tiexi water treatment plant, with a capacity of 100,000 m3/day; and
*  Strengthening of distribution network, with a total length of 50.8 km with pipe diameters
varying from DN 300-1000 mm.
Project Component 5 - US$39.00 million
Handan Wastewater
16.   Existing Situation. There are two separate drainage systems in the Handan urban areas.
One is Tiedong drainage system, serving the area bordering the Jingguang railway, Remin road
and Fuyang River, including industrial wastewater and sanitary sewage. The existing East
WWTP, with a capacity of 100,000 m3/day with the triple-oxidation ditch process, serves this
system (currently operating at two-thirds of capacity because of sludge treatment capacity
limitations). The presently untreated wastewater from the west-north sewerage system discharges
to the Shuyuan river, a tributary of the Fuyang. Water quality in all rivers and streams in the
urban area is significantly worse than Class V, reflecting very limited dilution.
17.   Proposed Water Supply Subcomponent (Y338.3 million; $39.0 million).  The
proposed subcomponent will comprise the following works:
*  Sewer interceptors with a diameter varying from DN 1000-1800 mm, and a total length of 8.1
km, connecting to the proposed wastewater treatment plant at the northwestern edge of the
city;
*  Rehabilitation and expansion of the North Sewage Pumping Station, with a capacity of 60,000
m /day;
*  Oxidation ditch sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 100,000 m3/day, including sludge
treatment facilities;
*  Secondary sewer program, including link sewers, with a diameter varying from DN 300-800
mm, and a total length of 30.2 kin; and
*  Expansion of sludge treatmnent capacity with 33,000 m3/day at existing East Wastewater
Treatment Plant to optimize plant operational capacity.
Project Component 6 - US$4.50 million
Institutional Development, Strengthening and Training
18.   The objective of the technical assistance is to give support and advice so that appropriate
institutional, managerial, financial and operational arrangements are put in place to ensure
operational effectiveness, efficiency of management and the financial sustainability of the water
supply and wastewater companies in the project.
- 30 -



19.   Institutional/managerial component. This includes: (a) development of a company
strategy, business plans and management information systems (MIS); (b) establishing service
standards and monitoring performance targets under a more autonomous arrangement; and (c)
company reorganization and development of human resources planning and training programs.
20.   Financial strengthening. This includes: (a) operationalizing computerized accounting
and financial reporting systems; (b) developing a financial MIS system; (c) reviewing and revising
current billing practices to optimize collection efficiency; and (d) developing training programs.
21.   Operation enhancement. This includes: (a) identification and implementation of cost
savings initiatives; (b) preparation and implementation of sludge disposal plans; and (c)
introduction of modem, cost effective, operations and maintenance equipment, including training.
22.   Management and Geographic Information. This includes: (a) assess current methods
and systems for collection and maintenance of spatial and non-spatial data; (b) develop action
plans for implementation of improved information technologies such as MIS and GIS; (c) identify
and implement linkages required at local, provincial and national level for data sour_ing; and (d)
implement training programs to support the introduction and maintenance of the above
information systems.
Project Component 7 - US$0.70 million
Industrial Pollution Control
23.   The Hebei Provincial and Municipal Environmental Protection Bureaus have longer term
programs lasting until 2010 to achieve the desired industrial pollution load reductions through a
combination of: (a) industrial restructuring in favor of inherently less polluting industry; (b)
adoption of cleaner production techniques in existing industry; (c) greater degrees of wastewater
treatment by industry; (d) centralized wastewater treatment wherever appropriate; and (e)
strengthened regulatory control including imposition of much large fines for non-compliance. The
technical assistance program includes local and international expertise, limited pollution
monitoring equipment and computer hardware and software.
24.   The proposed Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP) consists of an overall
time-bound action plan for each city outlining preliminary actions for: (a) quantitative analysis of
pollution loads from industry based on compliance with national standards at present rates of
wastewater discharge; (b) highlighting remaining non-complying discharges for inmmediate term
control/closure; (c) set up of a pollution load database for each receiving watercourse; (d)
developing future water quality objectives for all watercourses; (e) determining pollution load
reductions required for all watercourses to meet 2005 and 2010 water quality objectives; (f)
stating priority receiving watercourses requiring load reductions to meet desired water quality
objectives; and (g) stating priority industry sectors and enterprises for control and load reduction
requirements.
- 31 -



25.    The IPCAP prioritizes industrial sectors and enterprises that will implement enhanced
pollution control in order to meet pollution load reduction requirements in order to achieve the
water quality objectives for the target dates of 2005 and 2010. The priority list identifies: (a)
industrial enterprise and sector; (b) location of discharge and receiving water; (c) pollution load in
2000 and target for 2005/2010; (d) pollution control approach - cleaner production; process
change; wastewater treatment, etc.; (e) outlines costs, finding source (self finance; local bank;
pollution fund) and implementation schedule.
Component                 Description                      Location               Capacity/size        Function-]
Shijiazhuang
Wastewater
Trunk Sewer Lines  Extension of main trunk lines along   Sewer lines at the following    DN 2000, 2078 m  To convey
Second Ring Road and to WWTP.  roads:                          DN 1800, 1743 m     wastewater
Network strengthening and expansion Zhonghuadajie Road, Nanxiao  DN 1500, 6051 m   generated in the
in eastern part of the city.      Road,                        DN 1200, 9869 m     city to the
Pingan Road                  DN 1000, 8202 m     WWTPs
Second Ring Road- East, and   DN 800, 1692 m
others.                      DN 700, 4061 m
DN 600, 1385 m
DN 500, 5124 m
Wastewater        Construction of a conventional     At the south-eastem outskirts of 500,OOOm'/day,  To treat the
Treatment Plant    activated sludge treatment plant with  Shijiazhuang            8 pumps of 1250 Ils,  wastewater from
sludge digestion and energy recovery,                          fixed speed         the eastem part of
inlet pump station, grit removal tank,                                              Shijiazhuang
aeration basin, primary and secondary                                              City
sedimentation tank, sludge pumping
station, blower house, digester,
digester gas recovery.
Tangshan
Water Supply
Intake Pump       Construction of works and supply &   Intake at Douhe Reservoir  3 pump of 975 Vs of  To abstract
Station           installation of equipment at intake                             which 2 variable    additional water
pumping house                                                  speed                from the Douhe
Reservoir
Raw Water         Laying of 19km long pre-stressed   From Douhe Reservoir to the   DN 1400, 19000 m    To convey water
Transmission      pipeline.                          new WTP along Xueyuan and                        from the Douhe
Pipeline                                             Yongqing Roads                                   Reservoir to the
WTP
Water Treatment   Construction of works and supply &   New WTP located in the     150,000m'/day       To augment the
Plant             installation of equipment for the WTP northwest of the central district             water supply to
incl. static mixer, mechanical    of Tangshan City                                 the Tangshan City
flocculator, sedimentation tank, clean
water tank, sludge thickening and
de-watering, clean water pumping
house, laboratory and accessories
-32 -



Tangshan Wastewater
Wastewater        Construction of conventional      No.2 WWTP, located in the    120,OOOm'/day, 4    To enhance the
Treatment Plant    activated sludge wastewater works   southwest of the Tangshan City pumps of 600 l/s,    existing WWTP
incl. Coarse grid and intake pump,                            fixed speed         capacity in the
fine grid & grit-removal, primary &                                               southem part of
secondary sedimentation tanks,                                                    the city
aeration basin & sludge return pump,
blower house, sludge thickening tank,
and sludge treatment.                                                    ..
Sewer Network     Extension of sewer network in the    Laying of trunk sewers at  DN 1800, 400 m     To convey
Tangshan City                    Nanxin Road & Xinhus Road.  DN 1500, 180m        wastewater
DN 1200, 870m       generated in the
DN 1000, 4690 m     Tangshan city to
DN 800, 2230m DN   the WWTP
600, 3280 m
DN 500, 3860 m
DN 400,530 m
DN 300, 3600 m
Handan Water
Supply
Inlet Works & Raw  56.6 km long pre-stressed concrete   From Yuecheng Reservoir to    DN 1200, 36.6 km    To abstract and
Water Conveyance  raw water transmission main, incl. 8  the Tiexi WTP in the city.  DN 1400, 20 km   convey raw water
Pipeline          river crossings, 3 railway crossings &                         Capacity 110 ,000    from Yuecheng
2 highway crossings. Raw water                                m3/day              reservoir to
gravity intake works in the Yuecheng                                              Handan Tiexi
Reservoir.                                                                        WTP
Water Treatment   Construction of works and supply &   Located in the Tiexi District of 1 00,OOOm'Iday  To augment water
Plant             installation of equipment at the Tiexi Handan City as the second                   supplies to
WTP incl. Sedimentation tank, filter, phase of Tiexi WTP                          Handan City
clear water tank, sludge conditioning
tank, sludge thickening basin, sludge
de-watering house, static mixer, clean
water return chamber, planting, and
control, laboratory & transportation
Equipment
Strengthening     Laying of 54.3 km distribution main  Pipe laying at the following  DN 1000, 5608 m  To strengthen the
Distribution                                       roads:      Lianfang Road,    DN 800, 1926 m      water distribution
Network                                             Guanghua Road, and others    DN 700, 4509 m      network of
DN 600, 8083 m      Handan City.
DN 500, 7241 m
DN 400, 5420 m
DN 300, 18024 m
Handan
Wastewater
Trunk Sewer &     Laying of main trunk lines &      Trunks mains to the new      DN 1800, 460 m      To convey
Secondary Drainage secondary trunk lines            WWTP in Tiexi and Guoyuan   DN 1350, 786 m       wastewater
Network                                             Roads and network            DN 1200, 6200 m     generated in the
strengthening in western and    DN 1000, 608 m   city to the existing
eastem part of the city.    DN 800, 1200 m       and new treatment
DN 600, 4400 m      plants
DN 500, 1040 m
DN 400, 6600 m
DN 300, 17000 m
- 33 -



North Sewage      Construction of civil works & supply  North Sewage Pumping Station. 60,000 mr/day, 4  Rehabilitation
Pumping Station &  and installation of equipment at the                       pumps of 300 I/s    Pumping Station
Sludge Thickening  North Pumping Station.
at the Existing   Expansion of the sludge treatment                                               Maximizing
WWTP              capacity at the existing WWTP   East WWTP                   33,000m 3/day       treatment plant
_________________                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~capacity
Wastewater        Construction of works & supply and  Northwestern edge of Handan.  I 00,000m /day, 5  To treat
Treatment Plant   installation of equipment at WWTP                           pumps of 375 I/s    waste-water of the
incl. coarse grid & intake pumping                                              westem and
house, grit-removal tank, oxidation                                             northern parts of
ditch, sedimentation tank and sludge                                            Handan City
treatment facilities
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
. ., $ i Es , S ~~~kOct                                  or
Project Component 1: Shijiazhuang - Wastewater           48.40         39.90        88.30
Project Component 2: Tangshan   - Water Supply           26.20          9.60        35.80
Project Component 3: Tangshan   - Wastewater             17.80          6.00        23.80
Project Component 4: Handan    - Water Supply            26.10          7.40        33.50
Project Component 5: Handan    - Wastewater              19.80         11.70        31.50
Project Component 6 - Institutional Strengthening, Training and  2.70   5.00         7.70
Construction Supervision
Project Component 7 - Environmental Protection and Pollution  0.40      0.30         0.70
Control
Total Baseline Cost                                     141.40         79.90       221.30
Physical Contingencies                                  14.10          8.00        22.10
Price Contingencies                                     19.50          7.90        27.40
Total Project Costs            175.00         95.80       270.80
Interest during construction               21.00         21.00
Front-end fee                    1.50          1.50
Total Financing Required             175.00  _    118.30       293.30
Goods                                                      37.30         43.10         80.40
Works                                                      99.30         43.70        143.00
Services                                                    1.60          4.00          5.60
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                          17.70          0.00         17.70
Construction Supervision Services                           1.80          5.00         6.80
Engineering and Management                                 17.30          0.00         17.30
Total Project Costs    175.00         95.80       270.80
Interest during construction               21.00        21.00
Front-end fee                    1.50         1.50
Total Financing Required    175.00        118.30       293.30
- 35 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
A. Economic Analysis
1.    Economy. Hebei Province has a population of approximately 66 million. There are 11
municipalities, each centered around a major city. The three project cities, Shijiazhuang, the
capital, Handan and Tangshan, are the three largest urban centers in the province. Like in many
other Chinese Provinces there is a growing migration of the population from the rural to the urban
areas. The project cities have registered population increases between 12% (Handan) to 17%
(Tangshan) in 1998. Areas around Beijing are being affected by overspill development and this
particularly affects Tangshan municipality which is located to the east of Beijing. This migration is
placing increased stress on urban utility services such as water supply and sewerage, and raising
the importance of urban sewage treatment as an essential environmental protection measure.
2.    The wealth of the Province varies significantly with the more sparsely populated northern
municipalities generally being poorer than the rest of the provincial area. The Province as a whole
is significantly poorer than its more wealthy neighbors, Beijing and Tianjin municipalities who
have more than double the per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The provincial GDP in
1997 was Y395.4 billion, a 39% increase from the 1995 GDP of Y285.0 billion. This growth
trend continued in 1998, which registered a GDP increase of 12.5%. Per capita disposable income
in 1998 was Y5,592 ($674). The province also registered an increase in income disparity. Survey
data indicate that per capita disposable income of the highest 10% income family group was
Y10,464, while the lowest 10% had a disposable income per capita of only Y2,385. GDP per
capita in the province is about 25% above the national average (Y4,8 10).
3.    Like many other provinces in China, Hebei Province has been undergoing remarkable
growth and transformation since the early 1980s, reflecting trends in the economy at large. After
two decades of stagnation, urban population and incomes have been increasing substantially.
However, growing urban population and industrialization are causing widespread pollution, and
environmental problems have become a central issue in the province. The benefits of the recent
economic expansion have been accompanied by serious environmental degradation. Urban
redevelopment, funded by increased wealth and industrialization, has increased water demand
substantially, with many rivers and streams now only having seasonal flow as a result of increased
surface and ground water abstraction. Almost all urban homes now possess an indoor water
supply, and traditional night-soil collection has been replaced through the growth of sewerage
systems with a consequent discharge of largely untreated domestic and industrial wastewater into
water courses.
4.    Environment. China is poor in water resources, relative to its population, and the Hai
River Basin, in which the proposed project is located, suffers from acute water shortages. The per
capita availability of water in the northern part of China is estimated to be just 750 cubic meters -
a tenth of the world average. The seasonal pattern of rainfall in the Hai River Basin, where
70-80% of the rain falls in the summer months, means that extensive water storage and careful
water management are required. Also, groundwater in the Hai River Basin is over-extracted,
relative to replenishment, by more than 30%. This lack of water resources is compounded by the
- 36 -



poor quality of much of the available surface water. The low level of water resources results in a
greater polluting impact per cubic meter of wastewater discharged. In 1995, wastewater
accounted for 11 per cent of surface water runoff in the Hai River Basin.
5.    Hebei Province lies within the Hai River Basin which is one of three large river basins
identified by the Chinese Government for urgent environmental improvement (the others are the
Huai and Liao river basins). The Province is severely short of water with the rivers, reservoirs and
ground water resources having difficulty in meeting the demand from irrigation and for domestic
and industrial consumption.
6.    The natural droughts occurring during the winter season have been exacerbated by
pollution of surface water sources and overuse of ground-water resources. Some of the water
resources have become increasingly polluted over the last twenty years and in many places
ground-water levels are falling yearly as consumption regularly exceeds replenishment amounts.
In the whole Hair river basin, over 50% of the length of water courses do not comply with the
Class V national standard, and are therefore unsuitable for use as a raw drinking water supply.
Many river reaches are so polluted that the water is unsuitable even for agricultural uses.
7.    Water has often to be extracted from polluted rivers, rain-fed reservoirs, or piped from
distant water sources. The usable water resources are now estimated at 260-400 cubic meters per
year per person, which rank the 25th of all 28 provinces and regions in the country. Unless water
is better managed, in the near future, some cities will have to rely on costly water transmission
from the Yellow River and, perhaps in the long-term, from the South-to-North water transfer
project.
8.    Added to the problems of an adequate safe water supply are the impacts downstream of
the pollution discharged from the Hai River and adjacent river basins to the Bohai Sea. These
discharges, both of high-levels of nutrients and toxic compounds from anthropogenic activities
within the upstream river basins, are leading to dramatic and potentially irreversible effects on
aquatic life.
9.    The Hebei Provincial Government (HPG) has outlined an ambitious environment
protection plan for the province up to the year 2010, to be implemented in three phases.
Investments in fixed assets for municipal infrastructure amounted to Y5.6 billion in 1998 with a
jurnp of 80% over the previous year. These plans are consistent with national envirom-nental plans
including the Trans-century Green Plan and the Hai River Pollution Control and Prevention Plan,
both of which have been approved by the State Council. The objectives for the year 2000 are that
the drinking water sources should meet national standards. Wastewater treatment coverage in
urban areas should reach 35%, and 75% of industrial wastewater discharges should meet
standards. By the year 2010 the water quality of all rivers, lakes and reservoirs should meet the
standard and 75% of all sewage from urban areas should be treated.
10.   Shijiazhuang City. Situated 250 kilometers South of Beijing, Shijiazhuang is the capital
of Hebei Province. Shijiazhuang is an important industrial base in North China, being one of the
centers of textile, chemical, pharmaceutical and electronic industry. It is also an institutional and
educational center of Hebei Province and benefits from good communications (railway stations,
express roads, modern airport) with many other large cities in the country. With all these facilities,
Shijiazhuang plays a key role in the economic development of the Province. It is also the largest
- 37 -



city, with a total population of 8.57 million in its administrative area and an urban population of
approximately 1.5 million. The per capita disposable income in 1998 was Y5,592 and registered
an increase of 8.3% over the previous year.
11.   Handan City. Handan is located in the extreme South of the Hebei Province. The main
river flowing through Handan is the Fuyang river. With its 180 km length in the urban area, the
Fuyang River is an important water resource for the city of Handan. An ancient city with more
than 2,500 years history, Handan is nowadays an industrial city with a significant industrial output
value which ranks it the third most important city in Hebei Province. The main industries
developed in the city are metallurgy, textiles and construction materials. The south-western part
of the urban area is a heavy industrial zone with the headquarters of a major Steel Company which
accounts for about half of the urban industrial water use and output value. The urban area has a
population of about 730,000 inhabitants. The per capita disposable income in 1998 was Y4,914
and registered an increase of 3.2% over the previous year.
12.   Tangshan City. Tangshan is located in the Eastern portion of the North China plain. The
Tangshan Central Urban District was formed and developed on the basis of the mining industry
(Kailuan Coal Mine). At present, it is an important base of energy resources and raw materials as
well as an industrial city. It is also a granary for the East of Hebei and a base for farming and
sideline products for North and Northeast China. The per capita disposable income in 1998 was
Y5,748 and registered an increase of 7.5% over the previous year. In 1976, the city suffered a
strong earthquake which destroyed the middle and southern part of the urban area. After twenty
years rehabilitation and construction, a new city has been built, consisting of six district parts. The
central district covers a population in 1998, of about 680,000.
B. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
13.   The physical infrastructure components of the project include water supply rehabilitation
and expansion in the two cities of Tangshan and Handan; and improvements in wastewater
collection and disposal systems in the cities of Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan.
14.   The project will strengthen the reliability of water supplies to the three largest urban
centers cities in Hebei and will mitigate the effects of over-abstraction from ground water sources.
By treating wastewater, the project components will improve the quality of available surface
water resources.
15.   The investments in wastewater are mainly expansion of existing schemes, providing
expansion of sewer network, in some cases to new catchment areas, and additional treatment of
sewer discharged to the rivers. These investments are first steps towards long term clean up of the
rivers. The project cities will be spending a considerable amount of their capital investment budget
in these projects, which demonstrates their interest to improve the environment and meet national
targets.
- 38 -



16.   A crucial benefit of the project is that it will promote institutional and financial reforms, as
well as development and training, and financial and operational management capacity building of
the utilities. These project components will not only contribute to the long term sustainability of
the project but put in place permanent mechanisms for the local governments and utilities to
improve water supply and wastewater services.
17.   Handan City. Industrial and domestic water demand in the city of Handan is
approximately 350,000 mr/day and is estimated to reach 469,000 m3/day by 2010. (It should be
noted that water demand values used in the financial projections for all components, are more
conservative that those used in the engineering design).
18.   Water supply for Handan had initially been by groundwater abstraction, which is now in
excess of the sustainable aquifer yield. Capacity of the water distribution system is insufficient as a
result of lower water supply pressure in some of the customer's areas. The proposed water supply
project has a design capacity of 100,000 m3/day and would mitigate the water supply for industry
and domestic needs and progressively reduce water abstraction to a sustainable level in the city of
Handan. One of the existing treatment plant, extracting water from the polluted Fuyang River,
will be closed down when the plant proposed under the project starts operations.
19.   There are currently two sewer systems in Handan and total effluent in the urban area are
about 300,000 m/day. The Western sewer system is not well-developed and is in poor condition.
Wastewater in this area is discharged directly into the Fuyang River without any treatment. The
Eastern system is separated and equipped with a 100,000 m`/day WWTP, in operation since 1991.
Presently, the WWTP is running under its nominal capacity because of inadequate sludge
treatment. The treatment plant proposed under the project for a capacity of 100,000 m`/day. The
project will also rehabilitate and expand the current system, so as to increase treatment capacity
by an additional 135,000 m/day. Treatment ratio will increase from 25% to 55% at the end of the
project.
20.   Shijiazhuang is one of China's most water resource deficient cities. Water consumption in
industry, daily life, and public utilities have been increasing along with urban development. As a
result, discharges of industrial and domestic sewage have been increasing steadily. Total
wastewater produced is around 900,000 m3/day.
21.   The current treatment capacity is 130,000 m`/day (against a design capacity of 160,000 m'
/day). The current treatment rate of the city is therefore only 16%. In most of the sewer
catchments, the primary network is made of open channels operating as combined storm water
and sewage systems without treatment utilities downstream or with insufficient capacity. Today,
some 40 channels are used to discharge sewage without any treatment. Most of these channels are
in the urban area and are detrimental to living standards. In the year 2020, sewage discharge will
reach 1,100,000 m3/day. The target set in the Environmental Plan by the Shijiazhuang Municipal
Government is that by the year 2010 secondary treatment should reach a rate of 70%. The project
will add a treatment plant with a capacity of 500,000 mn/day. Treatment ratio in the city will
increase to about 65% by the end of the project.
22.   Tangshan. Water demand in the city of Tangshan is approximately 450,000 m3/day,
estimated to reach 600,000 m3/day by 2010. Good water supply in Tangshan has been scarce, a
- 39 -



phenomenon that is due to worsen because of the rapid growing urban population and industry, as
well as continuously lowering of groundwater level. Furthermore, urban underground water
abstraction is overexploited.
23.   The proposed Tangshan water supply component, with design capacity of 150,000 m/day
would mitigate water needs in the city and progressively reduce ground water abstraction to
sustainable levels.
24.   The city has two separate sewerage systems. In the eastern part of the city, a newly
constructed plant for 150,000 m3/day is due to be supplemented soon by another plant with similar
capacity. Sewage generated in the urban central and western areas (90,000 m/day) is discharged
into the Qinglong stream, which is seasonal with no base flow. Only about one third of this flow is
treated. Wastewater volume in this area is expected to reach 155,000 m3/day by 2005.
25.   The proposed project component includes the construction of a new treatment plant with
a design capacity of 120,000 n/day and improvements to the sewer network. It is expected that
by the end of the project total wastewater treatment rate in the city of Tangshan would reach
approximately 85%.
26.  In summary, the project entails an increase in water supply capacity of some 250,000 n3
/day and sewage treatment capacity of approximately 720,000 m/day, improving levels of service
to some 2.9 million people. Approximately 400,000 people will directly benefit from the
completion of the Handan's wastewater and water supply components; 640,000 people will
benefit from the completion of the Shijiazhuang wastewater component; and 570,000 people will
benefit from the completion of the Tangshan wastewater and water supply components.
C. Project Viability
27.   Methodology. A calculation of the Economic Internal Rates of Returns (EIRR) has been
undertaken for the water supply components. In the case of the wastewater components, benefits
are difficult to quantify and the calculation of the EIRRs has not been attempted. Average
incremental costs (AIC), in both economic and financial terms have been calculated and compared
to the level of tariffs, in constant terms, to evaluate the subsidy element of the project
components. Incremental costs and output are calculated from the difference between a "with
project" scenario and the "without project" scenario. The economic capital costs for the
components are determined by making adjustments to the component's financial capital costs. All
taxes and duties were excluded from the calculation. Price contingencies, interest during
construction and net working capital increases are also excluded. A Standard Conversion Factor
of 1.0 is used in calculating economic capital costs. The financial viability of the project is
discussed in detail at the end of this Annex.
28.   The Average Incremental Economic Cost (AIEC) per cubic meter of water supplied or
wastewater treated is calculated as the present value of the sum of capital and operational and
maintenance costs (evaluated at economic prices) divided by the present value of the quantity of
output. For each component, the AIEC was calculated on the basis of a 30-year economic life of
the project.
-40 -



29.   Least-Cost Solutions. Although an attempt has been made to quantify the project
benefits, the choice for priority interventions for the project has been guided by cost effectiveness
considerations. A least cost analysis was undertaken for all the project components and least cost
solutions were selected arnong the alternative technologies available, with the exclusion of the
Handan wastewater for which a marginally more costly option was selected because of easiness of
operation and maintenance of the facilities. The project also focuses on improving the efficiency
of the existing systems, for example in the case of the wastewater components, by focusing on the
construction of sewage lines and fully utilizing existing treatment plants.
30.   Water components. As indicated in the background description, the major problems with
water in the project cities is caused by over-extraction of groundwater, insufficient projected
water quantities to meet growing demand, and in some cases, unreliable supply.
31.   The water supply components will benefit customers by improving the quantity and
reliability of water supplies, and quality of the water supplied. For the water supply components,
the correct measure of output is water consumed (rather than water paid for, as in the financial
analysis), as water customers benefit from the project whether or not they actually pay their water
bills.
32.   To assess the economic viability of the project for the water supply components, project
benefits should be assessed in terms of customer's willingness to pay for project outputs (rather
than in terms of the required tariffs). In China, especially in the case of domestic consumers, the
current price paid for water is very low, to the point that a typical household in unaware of the
amount it pays for water every month. In Shijiazhuang, for example, the water bill represents only
0.6% of household disposable income, while the electricity bill is 2.3%, telephone is 3.1% and gas
2.1%. All customers are currently connected to a centralized system or are supplied from
groundwater wells, either private or public, and although reliability and quality of water is poor in
some cases, urban residents have no alternative but to use water provided from these systems.
Hence, with very low prices and in the absence of alternative markets for water, it is difficult to
assess WTP for water unless sophisticated contingent valuation surveys are undertaken. It is
widely recognized, however, that current price charged, which until recently has been heavily
controlled and kept artificially low, does not represent consumer willingness to pay for the service
and willingness to pay survey, where they have been attempted in China have all shown awareness
of the importance of paying for water and willingness to accept higher prices.
33.   In the absence of a specific WTP analysis for the project, we have looked at water prices
currently being applied in urban cities and have approximated the WTP in the project cities with
the average price charged in Dalian city, i.e. Y2.2/cum. Dalian is a city of 2.6 million inhabitants,
with domestic consumption comparable to that of the two project cities, and where recent
expansion in capacity has prompted significant increases in water prices in recent years.
34.   The results of the above analysis shows that both water projects are economically viable,
the EIRR for Tangshan is 14.4% and for Handan is 12.9. These values are close to the suggested
approximation of the EOCC which is 10-12% (Handbook on Economic Analysis for Investment
Operations). There are, however, other benefits of the water supply improvements, due to a
reduction of over-extraction of groundwater, and cost savings which would accrue from closing
down existing water treatment plant that are currently extracting water from the polluted branches
- 41 -



of the Fuyiang river (in Handan). If these were to be fully captured EIRRs would be higher.
35.   Wastewater Components. The background presented above indicate the seriousness of
the situation in the three project cities. If no action would be taken to treat wastewater,
environmental damages would continue. Pollution load would also increase in parallel with
increased water consumption. Benefits from the wastewater schemes are mainly environmental
and of a public nature, hence it is difficult to translate them into monetary values, especially
because of the lack and difficulty of collecting local data.
36.   The wastewater project components will increase the proportion of sewage treated in
Handan, Shijiazhuang and Tangshan by 30%, 56% and 27%, respectively. The main benefit of the
wastewater components will be an increase in the amount of sewage treated, and hence an
improvement in ambient water quality in the receiving water bodies and in the future, quality of
underground water. Improvements in water quality will also lead to an improvement in
agricultural yields, since the receiving rivers' waters are used for irrigation. Finally, there will be
improved drainage of sewage and storm water from the built-up area, which will improve
aesthetics of the city and indirectly increase land values.
37.    Sensitivity Analysis. An analysis was conducted for project items that have an impact on
the project's economic viability and for which there is considerable uncertainty. Table 1
summarizes the results of the sensitivity analysis on the economic parameters. The EIRRs for the
two water components are most sensitive to a reduction in the project benefits, while the AICs are
most sensitive in variations in the capital costs.
Table 1: ERR and AIEC Sensitivity Analysis
Key Variable  Change           Water Supplv                     Wastewater
Handan        Tangshan     Handan  Shijiazhuang   Tangshan
ERR    AIEC   ERR   AIEC   AIEC          AIEC         AIEC
Base Case               12.9           14.4   1.58    1.62        1.07        0.97
1 Capital Cost    +10%    11.8    2.24    13.5   1.66    1.75        1.15        1.04
2 O&M Costs    +10%        12.7    2.10    14.2   1.54    1.65       1.08        0.98
3 Benefits      -10%      11.4      -     13.1     -       -          -           -
Combination             10.1    2.27    11.9   1.69    1.78       1.17        1.06
of (1+2+3)'
a/Combination of (1+2) in the case of the wastewater project components.
-42 -



D. Financial Analysis
38.   Methodology. In order to determine the financial viability of the water supply project
components in Handan and Tangshan, the financial rate of return (FRR) is calculated. The FRR is
defined as the discount rate, or rate of return, which equalizes the present value (PV) of
incremental project costs to the present value of incremental revenues. The Project component is
considered to be financially viable if the FRR is equal to, or greater than, the actual cost of project
funding which is referred to as the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The three project
cities employ a polluter-pay approach to the application of wastewater charges in that all
wastewater generators pay the charge regardless of whether they are connected to the public
sewer. Consequently, while the wastewater system expansions provided under the project will
significantly increase the proportion of the population receiving service, the proportion of the
population paying the charge will remain unchanged. As a result, increases in revenues will be
limited to that resulting from tariff increases and population growth. For this reason, the concept of
incremental revenues underlying FRR is not fully applicable and, therefore, FRR is not calculated
for the wastewater project components.
39.   An analysis of the cost effectiveness and subsidy requirements of both the water supply
and wastewater project components has been undertaken. The average incremental financial cost
(AIFC), which is an approximation of the long run marginal cost, is calculated. The AIFC is
defined as the present value of capital and operation costs at financial prices divided by the
present value of the quantity of wastewater treated and paid for in each year over the life of the
system. The present value is calculated by discounting all cash flows at the WACC. In order to
identify those factors posing the greatest risk to the financial viability of the Project, an analysis of
the sensitivity of FRR and AIFC to adverse changes in selected key variables is also undertaken.
40.   Major Assumptions. The FRR and AIFC are calculated over the economic life of each
project component, which is assumed to be the 30 year period from 2000 to 2029. The FIRR is
calculated on a pre-tax basis. All revenues and costs are expressed on an incremental basis in
constant 2000 prices. Capital costs are baseline costs plus physical contingencies. In addition, an
allowance for the replacement of mechanical and electrical components over the economic life of
the project is made. Incremental revenues over the 2000 - 2014 are projected on the basis of the
average tariff requirements determined for each project company. Beyond 2014, user fees are
assumed to remain at 2014 levels. The WACC is calculated separately for each project component
and varies between 6.7 percent (Shijiazhuang wastewater) and 7.0 percent (Handan wastewater)
depending on the financial structure of each component.
41.   The FIRRs for the Handan and Tangshan water supply components are 8.8 percent and
9.8 percent respectively, both above the WACC. Therefore, the water supply project components
are considered to be financially viable.
42.   The AIFCs for the Handan and Tangshan water supply components are Yl.66/mn and
Yl.34/mi  compared to average 2014 tariff levels YO.93/m3 and YO.95/m3, respectively. The
difference between the ArFC and the average tariff represents a financial subsidy. Most of this
subsidy is provided in the form of the equity contributions by each municipality toward the capital
cost of the project. The AIFCs for the three wastewater components also exceed the average
-43 -



tariff in 2014. However, while the AIFC is calculated on the basis of the volume of wastewater
treated, the average tariff is based on the total volume of wastewater generated. Since all piped
and self-supplied water consumers pay the wastewater tariff, regardless of whether they are
actually discharging into the sewer system, the required tariff is lower than the AIFC.
43.    Sensitivity Analysis. An analysis has been undertaken to test the sensitivity of FRR and
AIFC to adverse changes in selected key variables. The variables tested were increases in capital
costs, increases in operating and maintenance costs, reductions in revenues and a one year delay in
project completion. The results of the analysis are presented in Table 2. In the case of the two
water supply components, the sensitivity analysis indicates that the FRR is most sensitive to a
reduction in incremental revenues. This highlights the importance that tariffs be increased in
accordance with the required implementation schedule. In the case of the Handan and Tangshan
wastewater components, the AIFC is most sensitive to a one year delay in project completion.
The AIFC for the Shijiazhuang wastewater component is most sensitive to an increase in capital
cost.
Table 2: FRR and AIFC Sensitivity Analysis
Key Variable   Change             Water Supply                        Wastewater
Handan WS       Tangshan WS    Handan   Shijiazhuang   Tangshan
FRR    AIFC    FRR    AIFC    AIFC            AIFC         AIFC
Base Case                 8.8      1.66    9.8     1.34      1.25       0.76         0.73
Capital Cost    +10%      7.1     1.80     8.5     1.43      1.34       0.82         0.79
O&M Costs       +10%      8.5      1.69    9.4    1.38       1.29       0.78         0.75
Revenues        -10%      6.5      1.66    7.9    1.34        -           -            -
One Year                  8.2      1.66    9.4    1.37       1.36       0.78         0.80
Delay
Combination               4.1      1.82    6.0    1.51       1.49       0.86         0.88
of (1+2+3+4)a/
al Combination of (1+2+4) in the case of the wastewater project components.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
-44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
A. Municipal Finances
1.    An analysis on the availability of counterpart funds was undertaken by reviewing revenues
and expenditures in each project city, as well as trends in provincial finances. Table 1 presents a
summary of this analysis. Detailed tables for revenues and expenditures are available in the
project file. The data analyzed refer to what is called in the Chinese system on-budget and
extra-budget funds. Off-budget funds were discussed but are not included in the evaluation,
because of the difficulty of verifying the accuracy of the data. 'Normal' or on-budget and
extra-budgetary funds, include revenues from statutory taxes and levies. Their allocations are
subject to approval by higher levels of government. Off-budget funds are non-tax revenues such
as net income remitted from municipally controlled enterprises, and some types of user charges
collected by administrative departments. There is little control by higher levels of government on
these revenues sources. In all the three municipalities some of the off-budget funds (about 10
percent of the total) are actually transferred to the on-budget revenues (usually included in the '
key project fund' category of revenues) and are generally allocated for the purpose of capital
investment expansions.
2.    The analysis of historical trends indicates large increases in revenues and expenditures in
recent years in all the project cities, as well as in Hebei Province. This is an indication of recent
economic growth and the relatively strong financial condition of the Province. Revenues and
expenditures have increased in the project cities between 8 percent and 16 percent per year on
average over the last 5 years. The amount of expenditures allocated to the capital expenditure
budget is substantial (about 10 percent to 15 percent of total on-budget revenues) in all three
cities. For the purpose of projections, a different rate of growth in municipal revenues (between 3
to 10 percent per year, in nominal terms) has been assumed depending on past trends of each
municipality.
3.    The analysis reveals that the project components are affordable in all cities. The project
will be relatively more onerous in the case of Handan, though still well within the limits of
affordability. Requirements for project counterpart funds (calculated as the difference between
the financing required for the project in each year after taking into account the companies' capital
contributions and the Bank's loan) over total revenues varies between 2.5 percent in Handan (3.5
percent in the peak year), 1.8 percent in Tangshan (3 percent in the peak year), and 1.1 percent in
Shijiazhuang (1.9 percent in the peak year). When considering only revenues that can be
earmarked for the purpose of capital expenditure (which is an approximation of the city financial
capacity to contribute to the project), the project counterpart fund requirements varies between
13 percent on average in Handan (18 percent in the peak year, 2003), 7 percent in Tangshan (12
percent in the peak year, 2000), and 5 percent in Shijiazhuang (7 percent in the peak year, 2000).
-45 -



Table 1: Municipal Finances
(Y million, current tenns)
2000   2001    2002    2003    2004   2005    2006   Total
Handan
Municipal Revenue             1.364   1.483   1,609   1,746   1,933   2.126   2.338  10,260
Capital Investment Capacity    319    321      333     347     331     357     386   2,008
Project Contributions           47      40      51      62      48       10       -    258
Project as % of Revenues      3.4%    2.7%    3.2%    3.5%    2.5%    0.4%    0.0%      3%
Project as % of Capital Budget   14.7%   12.6%   15.2%   17.8%   14.7%    2.7%    0.0%  13%
Shijiazhuang
Municipal Revenue            3,371   3.701   4,051   4,440   4,868   5,344   5.866  31,640
Capital Investment Capacity    907     970   1,039   1,113   1,194   1,281   1,374   7,877
Project Contributions           65      51      44      50      56      74       10    350
Project as % of Revenues      1.9%    1.4%    1.1%    1.1%    1.2%    1.4%    0.2%      1%
Project as % of Capital Budget    7.2%    5.2%    4.2%    4.5%    4.7%    5.8%    0.8%  4%
Tangshan
Municipal Revenue             1,876   1,932   1,995   2,049   2,205   2,174   2,233  12,230
Capital Investment Capacity    465     479     493     508     523     539     555   3.008
Project Contributions           56      42      39      47      30       9        -    223
Project as % of Revenues      3.0%    2.2%    1.9%    2.3%    1.4%    0.4%    0.0%      2%
Project as % of Capital Budget   12.1%    8.7%    7.9%    9.3%    5.7%    1.7%    0.0%  7%
4.     The two project components in Handan will absorb a major portion of the city capital
investments (close to one fourth of the projected investment budget that the city intends to use for
capital infrastructure). This will limit Handan's flexibility to invest in additional urban
infrastructure improvements over the next five years, while Tangshan and especially Shijiazhuang
can afford other major capital investments (the project represents 14 percent and 6 percent
respectively of the projected annual capital investment in these cities). This was to be expected
considering that GDP per-capita in Handan is approximately half that of Tangshan and 70 percent
of Shijiazhuang, hence ability to generate revenues is reduced in relative terms. The two project
components are indeed the most important investments included in the city's urban investment
plan.
5.     To evaluate the sensitivity of the project to the risk of counterpart funds shortages, a
worst case scenario for the project was also projected. In the case of Handan, which is potentially
the most vulnerable city, it was assumed that: (i) there would be a reduction of projected total
revenues to an annual nominal increase of 5 percent; (ii) some of the revenues that are eannarked
for the city's capital investment budget would not be available; and (iii) both the water and
wastewater companies will be unable to contribute to project investments. Under this scenario,
the counterpart fund requirements climbs to an average of 22 percent of the capital investment
capacity over the project period (34 percent in the peak year), but is still only 7 percent of total
revenues in the peak year. Hence, even under the worst case scenario there is only a limited risk
of a counterpart fund shortage during project implementation.
- 46 -



B. Public Utility Financial Projections and Institutional Arrangements
6.      Financial projections have been prepared for each of the companies on an annual basis
over the 2000- 2014 period. These projections are based on the requirement of each company
to comply with the agreed upon financial covenants regarding cost recovery, debt service
coverage, and internally generated contributions toward capital investments. Details of the
assumptions used for these projections are described at the end of this Annex.   Summary
financial projections for each company are given in Tables 9 - 13. Detailed financial
projections are included in the project file.
7.      Average tariff requirements have been  estimated based on the findings of these
projections and are shown in Table 2. Due to the lower levels of cost recovery presently
achieved by the wastewater companies, required increases in wastewater tariffs are higher than
that for water supply. Wastewater tariffs need to be increased between 90 percent and 135
percent to 2006, while required increases for the two water supply companies over this same
period are in the 60 percent to 65 percent range.
Table 2: Existing and Projected Tariffs
(Y/m3, current terms)a/
Actual   Planned                                 Projected
Jan 2000    2000    2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
Handan WS
Average Tariff         0.88    1.23   1.23   1.29   1.36   1.43   1.43   1.43   1.43   1.50   1.50   1.57
% Increase                     40%      0%     5%     5%      5%     0%     0%      0%     5%     0%     5%
Handan WW
Average Tariff         0.37    0.37   0.45   0.54   0.65   0.77   0.87   0.87   0.87   0.87   0.87   0.87
% Increase                       0%    20%    20%    20%    20%    12%      0%      0%     0%     0%     0%
Shijiazhuang WW
Average Tariff         0.30    0.38   0.42   0.50   0.60   0.66   0.71   0.71   0.71   0.71   0.71   0.71
% Increase                      26%    10%    20%    20%    10%      7%     0%      0%     0%     0%     0%
Tangshan WS
Average Tariff        0.85     0.85   1.00   1.08   1.16   1.26   1.36   1.36   1.43   1.43   1.51   1.51
% Increase                       0%    17%     8%      8%     8%     8%     0%      5%     0%     6%     0%
Tangshan WW
Average Tariff         0.28    0.42   0.53   0.61   0.67   0.74   0.85   0.85   0.88   0.88   0.93   0.92
% Increase                      49%    26%    15%    10%    10%    15%      0%      4%     0%     5%     0%
a/ Average tariff for all customer groups expressed on an accural basis.
-47 -



WATER SUPPLY COMPANIES
Handan Water Supply Company
8.    Past Performance. Over the past five years, the financial performance of the Handan
Water Supply Company (HWSC) has been adversely affected by declining water sales and
deteriorating collection efficiency, both of which are at least in part due to the restructuring of
local state owned enterprises. In 1997, the HWSC incurred a small net loss while it just
covered its recurrent expenses, including depreciation, in 1998 and 1999. Between 1994 and
1998, water sales declined by 16 percent although they then increased by 9 percent in 1999.
Collection efficiency is reported to have declined from almost 99 percent in early 1990s to 86
percent in 1998. In order to reverse this trend and return to more satisfactory collection
efficiency levels, the company has reorganized its billing and collection systems and has
introduced enterprise accounting.
9.    Tariff Requirements. In December 1999, the average water tariff was increased from
Y0.64/m3 to Y0.88/m'. The details of the existing tariff structure are shown in Table 3. The
HWSC has applied for a further increase in the average tariff to Y1 .23/rnm and anticipates that
this increase will be implemented by the end of 2000. Once this increase is implemented, and
combined with improvements in collection efficiency, the requirement for further increases
should be limited to that needed to recover normal inflationary increases in operating expenses
to at least 2006.
Table 3: Handan Water SUDDIV ComPanv - Existinv Tariffs
(Ylm3)
Customer Group    Gross   Local  6% VAT   Net
Tariff  Surcharge       Tariff
Domestic           0.73    0.07    0.04    0.63
Industrial          1.25    0.11    0.06    1.07
Commercial          1.52    0.14    0.08    1.30
Institutional       1.15    0.10    0.06    0.98
Special Uses       7.38    0.67    0.38    6.33
Average Tariff                              0.88
10.   Projected Performance. Given the significant increase in depreciation resulting from
the transfer of the new Tiexi No. 1 treatment plant to the HWSC, net income will be negative
in 2000 in the absence of any increase in tariffs. This loss can be avoided if the planned tariff
increase to Yl.23/mi  is implemented no later than the middle of 2000.  With the
implementation of this increase, and with modest additional increases in subsequent years, the
HWSC is projected to generate increasing net income levels to 2004. A portion of the cash
generated by the company over this period will be contributed toward the cost of the HUEP.
Over the 2000 - 2005 project implementation period, internally generated revenues are
estimated to be able to fund 25 percent of the cost of the Handan water supply component.
With the full operations of the project assets and debt service commencing in 2006, net income
is projected to decline but remain well within acceptable levels.
-48 -



11.   Institutional Set-up. HWSC, under the supervision of the Urban Construction Bureau
(UCB), has been an independent state-owned company since 1958. It is a traditional Chinese
water supply company and does not have a Board of Directors or Supervision. HWSC manages
water transmission from the Yuegheng reservoir, several ground water wells, water treatment
plants and distribution network, and supplies water to consumers including a large number of bulk
connections. It has about 875 employees. Registered assets were re-valued in 1998 and
amounted to Y 82.3 million.
12.   Reform  Framework.  HWSC did not manage the large implementation of recent
construction investments, although it provided part of the counterpart funds from its own
revenues. Under the project, it intends to have full responsibility for the proposed investment.
The company reports practicing cost control measures and having substantially reduced operating
costs in recent years, but it is not clear whether this was more a necessary reaction to the inability
to obtain an increase of the water price (the tariffs were not increased in the last three years and
are among the lowest in urban centers in Hebei) or an outcome of more efficient business
practices. Management is generally keen to receive advice and training to further imnprove its
efficiency and modernize.
Tangshan Water Supply Company
13.   Past Performance.  The financial performance of the Tangshan Water Supply
Company (TWSC) has been generally satisfactory in that it has generated operating surpluses
in nine of the last 10 years. Tariffs have been increased six times in the last nine years and
have been largely consistent with inflation. Collection efficiency is reported by the company to
be over 95 percent although the recording of invoices when paid, rather than when billed,
results in an overestimate of actual efficiency levels. In 1998, the company just recovered its
recurrent expenses, including depreciation. With a 10 percent increase in the average tariff in
June 1999, net income is estimated to have improved from about YO.6 million in 1998 to Y4.8
million in 1999.
14.   Tariff Requirements. The existing tariff structure and levels are given in Table 4.
Annual average increases of 8 percent, for a total increase of 60 percent, are estimated to be
required over the 2001-2006 period bringing the average tariff to Y1 .36/m3. Beyond 2006,
periodic increases will be required only to recover inflationary increases in recurrent expenses.
-49 -



Table 4: Tangshan Water Supply Company - Existing Tariffs
(Ym 3)
Customer Group         Gross    Local  6% VAT   Local  Net Tariff
Tariff   Charge           Taxes
Domestic                  0.70     0.03     0.04    0.01     0.63
Industrial                1.03     0.05     0.06    0.01     0.92
Commercial                1.65     0.05     0.09    0.01     1.50
Institutional             0.70     0.03     0.04    0.01     0.63
Raw Water for Steel Plant  0.97    0.05     0.05    0.01     0.86
Special Uses              3.50     0.05     0.20    0.02     3.23
Average Tariff                                               0.85
15.   Projected Performance. Based on the implementation of the required tariffs, net
income is projected to improve from about Y5 million in 2000 to Y31 million in 2004. Over
the 2000 - 2005 HUEP implementation period, the company's internally generated revenues
are estimated to be able to fund at least 25 percent of the cost of the Tangshan water supply
component. With the full operation of the project assets and debt service commencing in
2005, net income is projected to decline by 50 percent, to Y16 million. Beyond 2005, annual
net income is projected to range between Y8 million and Y12 million, sufficient to fully
comply with the financial covenants.
16.   Institutional Set-up.  Tangshan Water Supply Company has been an independent
state-owned company since 1951. TWSC works under the supervision of the Urban Construction
Bureau, but as is the case for long established well run companies, it has sufficient managerial
autonomy from Tangshan Municipal Government to make major managerial decisions. The
company manages both water transmission, treatment and supply to consumers and has 1,240
staff. Assets had been revalued in 1994 and are included in the company financial statements.
The company prepares annual business plans and has been practicing cost reduction and energy
savings measures regularly. The company is not a Limited company, hence it does not have a
Board of Director and Supervisors. It has, however, undertaken several reforms in line with local
institutional reforms and plans to incorporate under the Company law in the future, as well as to
merge with two other smaller treatment companies in Tangshan area (in Xinqu and Guye
districts).
17.   Reform Framework. Senior management is keen to run the company in an efficient,
business-like manner. However, possibly the single most serious problem is that the company
does not have control over the number of staff it must employ. The key issues identified during
project preparation which TWSC needs to address are: overstaffing within the core water supply
business; cross-subsidization of commercial business units and a need to review the justification
for each of these within the overall business strategy of TWSC; and simplification of bill format
and tariff structure.
- 50 -



WASTEWATER COMPANIES
Handan Wastewater Company
18.   Past Performance. The Handan Wastewater Company (HWWC) was registered as a
legal entity in March 1999. Prior to this, all sewerage and drainage operations were
undertaken by the Municipal Engineering Management Division (MEMD) of the Urban
Construction Bureau (UCB). As of January 2000, collections are being directly remitted to
the company, rather than through the Handan Finance Bureau, as was previously the case.
Under this revised arrangement, the wastewater charge is now included as a line item in the
water bill. These changes are intended to address the problem of low collection efficiency,
which in 1999 was only 60 percent. This problem, which is largely concentrated within the
industrial customer group, is also being addressed through the disconnection of water supply
service to delinquent customers and through legal processes.
19.   Tariff Requirements. Existing tariffs, which became effective in January 2000, are
shown in Table 5. With this most recent revision, the average tariff increased by 16 percent,
from YO.32/m3 to Y0.37/m3. Over the period to 2005, additional tariff increases of 135
percent will be required, the largest tariff increase of the five project companies. This increase
is based on the assumption that collection efficiency can be progressively increased to 95
percent by 2005. The preferred approach to implementing this increase is through regular
annual tariff adjustments. The required average tariff of Y0.87/mn in 2005 can be achieved by
implementing 20 percent increases every year from 2001 to 2004 and a 12 percent increase in
2005. Beyond 2005, the requirement for further tariff increases is expected to be very li mited
provided that inflationary increases in the cost of operating and maintenance inputs remain at
moderate levels.
Table 5: Handan Water Supply Company - Existing Tariffs
(YIm3)
Customer Group   Drainage Fee Treatnent Fee  Net Tariff
Domestic                 -        0.20       0.20
Industrial            0.10        0.30       0.40
Commercial            0.10        0.50       0.60
Institutional         0.10        0.30       0.40
Average Tariff                               0.37
20.   Projected Performance. Through the implementation of the required tariff increases,
together with significantly improved collection efficiency, the HWWC is projected to generate
progressively larger annual net income levels to 2004. The cash generated over this period is
conservatively estimated to be sufficient to enable the company to contribute 10 percent of the
capital cost of the Handan wastewater component of HUEP. With the full operation of the
project assets commencing in 2005, increases in operating expenses, depreciation, and debt
service will combine to reduce net income. However, the company will continue to be able to
comply with the financial covenants and meet the costs of regular capital replacements from
internally generated sources.
- 51 -



21.   Institutional set-up. Until recently, all sewerage and drainage operations were
undertaken by the Municipal Engineering Management Division (MEMD) under the Handan
Urban Construction Bureau. This Bureau was also in charge of road and bridge station and
road light station. Wastewater treatment tariffs were first introduced in 1997 collected on
behalf of MEMD by the Handan Water Supply Company and the Water Savings Office and
transferred to the Hebei Finance Bureau (HFB). MEMD's fee collection office collected
directly from industries that are not connected to the water supply network but discharge in
the sewers. The revenues so collected were also transferred to the HFB. Collection efficiency
was low and MEMD did not have a clear picture of how much money and when it would be
allocated each year.
22.   Reform Framework. The Handan Wastewater Company Ltd. was established and
registered in March, 1999. This Company is wholly owned by HMG and reports to the Urban
Construction Bureau and has absorbed the division of MEMD in charge of sewerage and storm
water. The business scope of the company is to maintain and manage all urban drainage and
wastewater treatment facilities in Handan urban area. The two divisions from MEMD which were
in charge of roads remained within the MEMD. The company has just been formed, but it has
appointed all senior managers and Board of Directors and Supervisors. Company assets,
including both treatment plant and network, were revalued in March 1999 with total assets of
Y65 million. The transfer of the assets to the company's financial account has been completed.
Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company
23.   Past Performance. The Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company was registered in 1997,
but the wastewater system assets held by the Shijiazhuang Wastewater Drainage Division were
not legally transferred to the SWWC until October 1999. Wastewater tariffs, which were
introduced in 1996, are collected by the Shijiazhuang Water Supply Company (SWSC) and
Water Savings Office (WSO) and, until December 1999, were transferred to the Municipal
Finance Bureau (MFB). The SWWC then received allocations from the MFB to fund its
operations. However, as of January 2000, the SWSC and WSO directly remit tariff
collections to the SWWC. In 1999, collection efficiency was estimated to be only 67 percent
with the most significant incidences of non-payment reported to be amongst industrial
customers. Although direct remittance of collections by the SWSC and WSO will provide
SWWC with greater control over its revenue stream, this alone is not expected to be sufficient
to improve collection efficiency levels to more acceptable levels. Inprovements in the
receivables management capacity of the SWWC, more active enforcement measures against
delinquent accounts, and, possibly, increased commissions to the SWWC and WSO for the
provision of billing and collection services will also be required.
24.   Tariff Requirements. As of January 2000, increases of Y0.10/m3 in industrial and
commercial tariffs were implemented, bringing the sewage treatment fees for these customer
groups to YO.30/m3. Existing tariffs are shown in Table 6. By the end of 2000, a YO.10/mr
increase in domestic and institutional tariffs will be implemented. A further Y0.10/mi increase
in the industrial tariff, or increases in the tariffs applied to the other customer groups needed to
- 52 -



generate equivalent revenues, will also be implemented. Over the period to 2006, additional
tariff increases of almost 90 percent will be required, bringing the average tariff to YO.71/mn.
Table 6: Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company - Existing Tariffs
(Ylm 3)_
Customer Group  Drainage Fee Treatment Fee  Net Tariff
Domestic                  -        0.20       0.20
Industrial             0.08        0.30       0.38
Commercial                -        0.30       0.30
Institutional             -        0.20       0.20
Average Tariff                                0.30
25.   Projected Performance. By implementing annual increases in tariffs beginning in
2000 together with improvements in collection efficiency, the SWWC will generate cash
surpluses, a portion of which can be contributed toward the capital cost of HIUEP. Over the
2000 - 2006 project implementation period, internally generated revenues are estimated to be
able to fund 15 percent of the cost of the Shijiazhuang component. With debt service and full
operations of the project assets commencing in 2005 and 2006 respectively, net income is
projected to decline but remain well within acceptable levels.
26.   Institutional Set-up. Until 1998, the responsibility for the sewer and drainage networks
in Shijiazhuang were under the responsibility of the Municipal Management Division, reporting to
the Public Utility Administration Bureau. This division was also in charge of roads, street lighting
and greening. The Qiaoxi wastewater treatment plant was managed by a separate division,
directly under the Municipal Engineering and Public Utility Administration Bureau. In October
1998 the Wastewater Drainage Division (WDD) was established, to combine the Qiaoxi
wastewater treatment plant and the drainage and sewer network, excluding responsibility for road
maintenance. The total number of staff in the WDD was 867. A Wastewater Company Ltd.
(SWWC) was also established in 1997, with original registered assets of Y100 million, following
the new Company Law. This company is wholly owned by Shijiazhuang Municipal Government
(SMG) and reports directly to the Shijiazhuang Urban Construction Commission (rather than to
the Municipal Engineering).
27.   Reform Framework. Although the SWWC was given the responsibility, on paper, for
construction, operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment plant, sewerage network
and pumping station, initially it was given no operational responsibilities. This company was
mainly conceived and organized as a project implementation unit to manage the construction of
the proposed Bank project. However, it soon became evident that a much more concerted reform
effort was required to face the challenge of efficiently managing the current and future assets and
providing adequate wastewater services. Within this context several actions were taken by the
municipal government and the company. SWWC has now appointed all senior management, a
Board of Director and a Board of Supervisors. It has set up a bank account, started its own
financial account, following the enterprise method of accounting, completed the legal transfer of
the assets and included these in its books. The company has also hired a certified public
accountant to strengthen its financial management. Assets for both wastewater treatment plant
- 53 -



and network were revalued in January 1999 and reflected in the company's accounts. Total assets
are Y422 million.
Tangshan Wastewater Company
28.   Past Performance. The Tangshan Wastewater Company (TWWC) was established in
December 1997, the same year in which wastewater tariffs were introduced. Although the
company has generated revenues sufficient to recover all recurrent expenses, including
depreciation, net income has declined significantly from Y9.3 million in 1998 to an estimated
YO.3 million in 1999. Collection efficiency is presently 85 percent, the highest of the three
project wastewater companies. This is due in large part to the fact that collections have been
combined with those of water supply since 1997 with direct remittance to the company rather
than through the MFB.
29.   Tariff Requirements. Existing tariffs are shown in Table 7. Unlike the two other
project wastewater companies, the TWWC does not fund the recurrent costs of the drainage
system through its tariffs. Instead, it provides maintenance functions on a contractual basis to
the city and is paid directly by the city for these services. It is anticipated that an increase in
the average tariff to at least YO.42/mn3 will be implemented by mid 2000. The need for this
increase is being driven primarily by the transfer and commencement of operations of the first
and second phases of the Dongjiao WWTP. Although the city is bearing the capital cost of
this facility, increased operating, maintenance and depreciation expenses have created an
immediate requirement for a significant increase in tariffs. Beyond this requirement, additional
increases totaling 60 percent need to be phased in over the next five years bringing the average
tariff to Y0.85/m3 by 2005. Beyond 2005, tariff increases should be limited to those needed to
offset the impact of general inflation on operating and maintenance expenses.
Table 7: Tangshan Wastewater Company - Existing Tariffs
(Y/m 3)
Customer Group       Gross Tariff 6% VAT +  Net Tariff
Local Taxes
Domestic                  0.20       0.01       0.19
Industrial                 0.40      0.02       0.37
Commercial                 0.40      0.02       0.37
Institutional              0.20      0.01       0.19
Treated Effluent Supply    0.20      0.01       0.19
Average Tariff                                  0.28
30.   Projected Performance. The implementation of an increase in the average tariff to at
least YO.42/m3 no later than mid 2000 should be sufficient to avoid a net loss in this year.
With the implementation of annual tariff increases between 2001 and 2005, net income is
projected to increase from Y4 million in 2000 to Y19 million in 2004. The cash surpluses
generated over this period are estimated to be sufficient to enable the TWWC to contribute at
least 10 percent of the capital cost of the Tangshan wastewater component of HUEP. Like
the other project companies, net income levels will then decline beginning in 2005 as the
HUEP project assets enter service and debt service begins. However, the company is
- 54 -



expected to continue to fully comply with the financial covenants over the entire forecast
period.
31.  Institutional Set-up. Until 1997, all sewage and drainage works in Tangshan were
carried out by the Tangshan Sewage and Drainage Division, under the responsibility of the
Municipal Engineering and Sanitary Management Division and reporting to the Tangshan
Urban Construction Bureau (TUCB). A separate Tangshan Wastewater Company (TWWC)
was established in December 1997, with a registered capital of Y72.5 million. In 1997
wastewater treatment charges were introduced. TWWC is wholly owned by Tangshan
Municipal Government and reports to the TUCB. The company has responsibility for
construction and management of urban wastewater treatment plants, sludge treatment and
reuse of wastewater. It owns and operates three wastewater treatment plants (Xinqu, Xijiao
and Dongjiao). The total number of staff is 520, with 54 high level professional. The
Company has its own Board of Director and Board of Supervisors, consisting of seven
persons each. Total assets value, including the cost for the sewage network, has been
revalued and is Y215 million.
32.   Reform Framework. The responsibility for the sewer and drainage network has now
been transferred from district department to the company, which performs this task under an
annual performance contract with the Tangshan Finance Bureau. TWWC also receives a budget
contribution from TMG for the management and maintenance of the storn water sewers.
C. Affordability Analysis
33.   An affordability analysis has been undertaken in order to ensure that domestic
customers, particularly those in the lower income group, can afford the new tariffs in
conjunction with the project. Based on generally accepted affordability guidelines, the cost of
water supply and sanitation should not exceed approximately 5 percent of household income.
Two representative household groups are considered in the affordability analysis: (i) the
median household income group, and (ii) the low income group which is defined as the
average of the group earning the lowest 10 percent of income distribution. The results of this
analysis are shown in Table 8 and indicate that the tariffs are anticipated to be affordable over
the entire 2000-2010 period.
- 55 -



Table 8: Affordability Analysis
City             Water & Wastewater Bill as a % of Household Income
2000    2002    2004    2006    2010
Handan
Low hicome        3.0%     3.0%     3.1%     2.9%    2.4%
Median Income     2.5%     2.4%     2.5%     2.3%     1.8%
Shijiazhuang
Low Income        2.6%     2.9%     3.4%     3.1%    2.4%
Median Income     2.1%     2.4%     2.6%     2.5%     1.9%
Tangshan
Low Income        3.7%     4.2%     4.4%     4.2%     3.5%
Median Income     3.0%     3.4%     3.5%     3.4%     2.8%
D. Assumptions to Utility Financial Projections
34.   Inflation and Exchange Rates.  Annual domestic inflation rates used in the
projections are 2 percent in 2000 and 5 percent thereafter. Foreign price increases are
estimated at 1.6 percent in 2000, 2.5 percent in 2001, 2.6 percent in 2002 and 2.5 percent
thereafter.  The exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where
applicable, is Y8.311 per $1.00. It is assumed that exchange rate adjustments will maintain
purchasing power parity over the forecast period.
Income Statement
35.   Operating Revenue. Operating revenue is calculated as the volume of water sold
multiplied by the average tariff. In the case of the wastewater companies, water sales include
metered water consumption, as recorded by the water supply companies, as well as
consumption from self-supplied sources as recorded by the Water Savings Office. The volume
of water sold is derived from projected water demand subject to any constraints imposed by
the maximum productive capacity of each system. In the case of Tangshan and Shijiazhuang,
water consumption per capita is projected to decline by 15 percent over the 15 year forecast
period to reflect the impact of tariff increases and the introduction of more efficient industrial
processes of system productive capacity. Water consumption per capita in Handan, which is
presently only about half that in Tangshan and Shijiazhuang, is assumed to remain constant.
Water tariffs are expressed on a weighted average basis in yuan per m3 of water supplied.
Wastewater tariffs are expressed on a weighted average basis in yuan per m3 of wastewater.
36.   Operating Expenses. The unit cost of personnel is assumed to increase at the general
inflation rate plus 2 percent per year. The unit costs of electricity, materials, other supplies
and administration are assumed to increase at the general inflation rate. Maintenance expense
is set as a function of the original cost of gross fixed assets and is adjusted in each year to
reflect the actual requirements of each company as well as inflationary increases in the cost of
materials and services.  Selling expenses, which represent the commission paid by the
- 56 -



wastewater companies for billing and collection services provided by the water supply
companies and water savings offices are based on current agreements that range between 1
percent and 3 percent of gross collections.
37.   Other Expenses and Charges. Depreciation expense is calculated separately for each
company on the basis of the estimated useful economic life of assets. Financial charges are
interest expense attributable to the proceeds of the IBRD loan and any other debt less interest
earned on the cash balances held by each company. Non-operating expense is the net of
non-operating revenue and expense. The income tax rate is 33 percent.
Sources and Applications of Funds Statement
38.   Internal Cash. Net income plus depreciation and interest expense.
39.   Long Term Borrowing. Includes the proceeds of the IBRD loan and any other debt
taken by the company having a maturity of more than one year. The proceeds of the EBRD
loan are assumed to be onlent by the Handan, Shijiazhuang and Tangshan Municipal
Governments to HWSC, HWWC, SWWC, TWSC and TWWC at 7.35 percent a year for 15
years, including a grace period of five years. The companies bear the foreign exchange risk.
40.   Equity Injection. Equity contributions by the municipalities to the companies, which
consist almost entirely of the share of HUEP counterpart funding requirements met by the
parent municipalities.
41.   Fixed Asset Investment. Expenditures on fixed assets provided under HUEP as well
as other capital works undertaken by the companies over the forecast period.
42.   Working Capital Increase. The change in working capital over the year, which is
defined as current assets, excluding cash, less current liabilities.
43.   Interest and Debt Repayment.  Interest includes interest during construction,
commitment charges on the IBRD loan and operating interest expense less interest income
earned on cash balances held by the companies. Debt repayment consists of the return of the
principal amount of the proceeds of the IBRD loan plus any other debt assumed by the
companies.
44.   Other Applications. Other applications of funds include deferred income charged to
non-operating income and contributions to the employee housing fund.
- 57 -



Balance Sheet
45.   Current Assets. Current assets include cash, accounts receivable from the water and
wastewater tariffs less an allowance for doubtful accounts, receivables from other services,
inventory and other miscellaneous current assets. Cash is the ending cash balance from the
sources and applications of funds statements. Accounts receivable from water and wastewater
tariffs, expressed in terms of the number of days worth of annual billings, are assumed to be as
follows: (i) HWSC - 51 days reducing to 37 days; (ii) HWWC - 110 days reducing to 47 days;
(iii) SWWC - 110 days reducing to 47 days; (iv) TWSC - 29 days; and, (v) TWWC - 51 days
reducing to 30 days. Inventory, expressed in terms of the number of days worth of
expenditures on materials and maintenance, is as follows: (i) HWSC - 73 days; (ii) HWWC -
102 days reducing to 55 days; (iii) SWWC - 55 days; (iv) TWSC - 90 days; and, (v) TWWC -
55 days. Other receivables, which relate to amounts owed to the company by affiliated units
and receivables arising from other services, such as construction and maintenance works, are
estimated on the basis of 1998 actual levels.
46.   Net Fixed Assets and Work in Progress. Net fixed assets are gross fixed assets in
service, valued at historic cost, less accumulated depreciation. Work in progress is fixed
assets that are under construction and have not yet entered service.
47.   Current Liabilities and Long Term  Debt.  Current liabilities include accounts
payable, short term debt, the current portion of long term debt, and other miscellaneous
liabilities. Long term debt is the non-current portion of debt having a maturity of more than
one year.
- 58 -



48.   Equity. The sum of retained earnings and government contributions.
Tables 9-13
Table 9: Handan Water Supply Company - Summary Financial Projections
(Y million, current termms)
Actual Estimate                                                Projected
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014
Income Statements
OperatmgRevenue        45.8   53.3   79.4  114.4  120.4  126.4  132.7  148.6  152.8  157.1  169.6  174.4  188.3  193.7  208.9  208.9  223.5
OperatingExpenses      43.1   43.5   51.8   55.3   58.3   62.1   65.5   75.1   80.7   85.9   92.4   99.4  107.0  115.3  123.3  131.5  140.4
Depreciation            8.5    8.1   27.3   27.8   28.2   30.2   30.8   54.9   56.0   57.2   58.6   60.1   61.7   63.5   65.5   67.7   70.1
OperatingIncome        (5.7)   1.7    0.3   31.3   33.9   34.1   36.5   18.5   16.0   13.9   18.7   15.0   19.6   14.8   20.1    9.7   13.0
Fiancial Charges       (0.3)   0.4    0.5   (0.5)  (0.6)  (0.7)  (0.8)   6.2   12.1   10.3    8.6    6.9    5.1    3.4    1.6   (0.1)  (1.7)
Non-Operating Expenses   (5.7)   0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.9    0.9    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.1
IncomeTax               0.1    0.2    -      10.3   11.2   11.3   12.1    3.8    1.1    0.9    3.1    2.4    4.5    3.5    5.8    2.9    4.5
NetIncome               0.1    0.5   (0.7)  20.9   22.7   22.9   24.5    7.8    2.1    1.9    6.2    4.8    9.1    7.0   11.7   5.8    9.1
Sources & Applications of Funds
Sources
Intemal Cash            8.2    9.0   27.0   48.2   50.2   52.4   54.5   68.9   70.2   69.5   73.4   71.8   75.9   73.9   78.8   73.5   77.5
LongTemmBorrowing       -      -      2.8    8.8   41.1   80.2   67.5   11.3    -        -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -
Equity Injection       16.3    -    260.2    8.8   18.4   57.5   29.1    4.3    -        -      -       -      -      -
Total                  24.5    9.0  290.0   65.7  109.7  190.1  151.0   84.4   70.2   69.5   73.4   71.8   75.9   73.9   78.8   73.5   77.5
Applications
Fixed Asset Investment    14.6    7.4  271.6   30.7   83.3  177.4  126.4   30.0   19.6   21.6   23.9   26.3   29.0   32.0   35.2   38.9   42.8
WorkingCapital Increase    5.1  (10.1)  22.5    6.7    8.2   (0.2)   0.4    1.7    0.3   (0.6)   0.8    0.4    0.9    0.4    1.1    0.4    1.3
Interest                -      0.4    0.5    0.1    1.9    6.4   11.7   13.4   12.1   10.3    8.6    6.9    5.1   3.4    1.6   (0.1)  (1.7)
DebttRepayment          -      -      -       -      -      -      -      21.2   21.2   21.2   21.2   21.2   21.2   21.2   21.2   21 2   21.2
Other                   6.8    -       0 3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -
Total                  26.5   (2.3) 295.0   37.9   93.8  184.0  138.8   66.3   53.1   52.6   54.4   54.7   56.1   57.0   59.2   60.4   63.6
Cash Changes           (1.9)  11.3   (5.0)  27.9   15.9    6.2   12.3   18.1   17.1   16.9   19.0   17.1   19.8   17.0   19.7   13.1   13.9
EndingCash Balance     12.2   23.4   18.4   46.3   62.2   68.4   80.6   98.8  115.8  132.7  151.7  168.9  188.6  205.6  225.3  2384  252.3
Balance Sheets
Assets
CurrentAssets          48.9   67.6   61.2   92.3  109.6  115.8  128.7  147.8  165.6  182.4  202.6  220.6  241.8  259.8  281.0  295.0  310.7
Net Fixed Assets      141.9  146.1  379.5  361.1  339.5  345.4  324.8  696.4  660.0  624.4  589.7  555.9  523.2  491.6  461.3  432.5  405.2
Work in Progress        4.9    -      11.0   32.9  112.1  260.6  389.3    -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -
OtherAssets             0.8    0.8    5.8   10.8   15.8   20.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8   25.8
Total                 196.4  214.5  457.5  497.1  577.0  742.6  868.6  870.1  851.4  832.6  818.1  802.3  790.7  777.2  768.2  753.2  7-1.6
Liabilities and Equity
CurrentLiabilities     24.7   42.6   18.7   15.2    8.3    8.6   29.7   29.0   29.5   29.9   30.3   30.8   31.4   31.9   32.4   32.8   12.1
LongTerm Debt           1.7    1.3    3.8   12.2   53.0  132.9  179.2  169.3  148.1  127.0  105.8   84.6   63.5   42.3   21.2   (0.0)  (0.0)
Equity                170.1  170.6  435.0  469.6  515.7  601.1  659.7  671.7  673.9  675.7  681.9  686.8  695.9  702.9  714.6  720.4  729.5
Total                 196.4  214.5  457.5  497.1  577.0  742.6  868.6  870.1  851.4  832.6  818.1  802.3  790.7  777.2  768.2  753.2  741 6
Financial Covenants
CostRecoverya,          0.9    1.0    1.0    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.0    1.1
SelfFinancingRatio      26%    19%    4%    32%    41%    36%    38%    56%   100%   100%/o  100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Debt Service Ratio        -      -      -       -      -      -      -    2.0    2.1    2.2    2.5    2.6    2.9    3.0    3.5    3.5    4.0
-59 -



Table 10: Handan Wastewater Company - Summary Financial Projections
(Y million, current terms)
Actual stinate                                                 Projected
1998  1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014
Income Statements
OperatingRevenue       16.2  17.5   35.5   43.6   52.4   62.8   75.4   84.5   84.5   84.5   99.4  101.7  104.2  116.3  117.1  127.6  127.6
OperatingExpenses       8.7  11.9   15.0   15.9   16.8   18.0   19.7   39.1   41.7   44.5   47.7   51.0   54.7   58.8   63.2   68.1   73.4
Depreciation            5.3   5.5    5.8    5.8    5.9    5.9    5.9   24.6   25.6   26.6   27.7   28.9   30.2   31.6   33.2   34.8   36.6
OperatingIncome        2.2   0.1   14.6   21.8   29.7   39.0   49.8   20.8   17.2   13.4   24.0   21.8   19.2   25.8   20.7   24.7   17.6
Financial Charges      -    (0.0)  (0.1)  (0.2)  (0.2)  (0.4)  (0.5)   5.9   11.4   10.0    8.7    7.3    5.9    4.6    3.2    1.8    0.5
IncomeTax              -      0.0    4.9    7.2    9.9   13.0   16.6    4.9    1.9    1.1    5.1    4.8    4.4    7.0    5.8    7.6    5.7
NetIncome               2.2   0.1    9.9   14.7   20.0   26.4   33.7   10.0    3.9    2.2   10.3    9.7    8.9   14.3   11.8   15.3   11.5
Sources & Applications of Funds
Sources
Internal Cash           7.5   5.5   15.6   20.4   25.7   31.9   39.1   40.5   40.9   38.9   46.6   45.9   45.1   50.5   48.1   52.0   48.6
LongTermBorrowing      -      -      10.5   34.6   39.6   49.3   44.1   11.5    -       -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Equity Injetion         4.8   3.6   36.7   31.7   32.4   29.1   19.4    5.3    -         -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -
Total                  12.2   9.1   62.8   86.7   97.7  110.3  102.6   57.3   40.9   38.9   46.6   45.9   45.1   50.5   48.1   52.0   48.6
Applications
Fixed Asset Investment    9.2   3.6   46.6   67.7   75.6   79.2   65.3   18.8   19.6   21.2   23.0   24.8   26.8   29.0   31.4   34.0   36.7
WorkingCapitalIncrease  2.4  (3.2)    1.7    0.5    1.5   (0.8)   0.8    0.0   (0.1)  (0.1)   1.1    0.1    0.2    0.9    0.1    0.9    0.1
Interest               -    (0.0)   0.1    2.0    4.7    7.9   11.2   12.3   11.4   10.0    8.7    7.3    5.9    4.6    3.2    1.8    0.5
DebtRepayment          -      -      3.9    3.5    -       -      -      19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0
Other                  (0.0)  -      -      -       ..         -      -      -       -      -       -          -      -      -       -      -
Total                  11.6   0.3   52.3   73.6   81.8   86.2   77.2   50.1   49.9   50.1   51.7   51.2   51.9   53.5   53.6   55.6   56.2
Cash Changes            0.7   8.8   10.5   13.0   15.9   24.1   25.4    7.2   (9.0)  (11.3)  (5.0)  (5.3)  (6.8)  (3.0)  (5.5)  (3.6)  (7.6)
EndingCashBalance       1.2  10.0   20.4   33.5   49.3   73.4   98.9  106.0   97.0   85.8   80.7   75.4   68.6   65.6   60.1   56.5   48.8
Balance Sheets
Assets
Current Assets          6.0  11.9   24.2   37.9   55.5   79.0  105.4  113.4  104.5   93.4   89.7   84.9   78.5   76.7   71.6   69.2   62.0
Net Fixed Assets       64.5  62.5   65.1   59.5   53.9   48.5   43.1  402.4  396.5  391.1  386.3  382.2  378.9  376.3  374.5  373.6  373.8
Work in Progress        7.0   7.0   45.4  115.0  195.3  282.2  358.6         -       -      -          -       -      -      -       -      -
Other Assets           0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Total                  77.6  81.5  134.8  212.5  304.8  409.8  507.2  515.8  501.0  484.6  476.2  467.2  457.5  453.1  446.2  442.9  435.9
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities    3.0   7.2    7.0    3.7    3.9    4.1   23.3   24.1   24.3   24.6   24.8   25.1   25.4   25.7   26.1   26.4    7.8
LongTerm Debt           7.4   3.5   10.5   45.1   84.7  134.0  159.1  151.7  132.7  113.8   94.8   75.8   56.9   37.9   19.0    0.0    0.0
Equity                 67.1  70.8  117.4  163.7  216.2  271.7  324.8  340.1  344.0  346.3  356.5  366.2  375.1  389.4  401.2  416.5  428.0
Total                  77.6  81.5  134.8  212.5  304.8  409.8  507.2  515.8  501.0  484.6  476.2  467.2  457.5  453.1  4462  442.9  435.9
Financial Covenants
CostRecoveryO/          1.2   1.0    1.7    2.0    2.3    2.4    2.4    1.2    1.2    1.1    1.3    1.3    1.2    1.3    1.2    1.2    1.2
Debt Service Ratio       -      -      -      -       -      -      -    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.7    1.7    1.8    2.1    2.2    2.5    2.5
Revenues divided by the total of opeeating and niaintenanee expenses pins the greater of depeciation on debt service.
- 60 -



Table 11: Shijiazhuang Wastewater Co. Ltd. - Summary Financial Projections
(Y milhon. current terms)
Actual_ stimate                                                      Proiected
1998  1999  2000  2001  2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014
Income Statements
OperatingRevenue       53.6  47.5  89.7  111.5  135.2   163.9   182.1   196.9   198.9   200.9   203.0   205.1   207.2   209.3   222.1   224.4   238.0
Operating Expenses     23.5  24.9  27.9  30.2  32.1    34.2    40.8    43.3    82.6    88.1    94.1   100.5   107.5   115.1   123.5   132.6   142.6
Depreciation            -     17.6  17.9  18.1   18.1    18.4    18.9    19.4    70.6    71.8    73.2    74.8    76.4    78.3    80.4    82.6    85.1
OperanmgIncome         30.1   5.0  43.9  63.2  85.0   111.3   122.4   134.2    45.7    41.0    35.7    29.8    23.3    15.9    18.2            9.1    10.3
Financial Charges       -     (0.2)  (0.7)  (1.2)  (1.5)   (1.9)   (2.2)    13.1    30.7    28.0    24.4    20.3    16.4    12.5       8.5     4.7      0.8
IncomeTax               -      1.7  14.7  21.3  28.5    37.3    41.1    40.0         5.0     4.3     3.8      3.1     2.3      1.1     3.2     1.5      3.1
NetIncome              30.1   3.5  29.8  43.2  57.9    75.8    83.5    81.2    10.1          8.7      7.6     6.4     4.6      2.3     6.5      3.0     6.4
Sources & Applications of Funds
Sources
InternalCash           30.1  20.9  47.1  60.0  74.6    92.3   100.2   113.6   111.3   108.5   105.2   101.5    97.4    93.1    95.4    90.3    92.2
Long Tenm Bonowing      -      -     14.2  50.6  84.4    98.7   128.4   141.4    26.3    10.6        -        -       -        -       -       -
Equity lnjection        -      -     65.3  50.8  43.7    49.6    56.4    73.6        9.6     0.7     -        -       -        -       -       .
Total                  30.1   20.9  126.7  161.4  202.8   240.7   285.0   328.7   147.3   119.9   105.2   101.5    97.4    93.1    95.4    90.3    922
Applications
Fixed Asset lnvestment  -      8.0  77.1  104.5  167.0   182.7   225.9   230.3    66.2    43.0    31.8    35.1    38.7    42.6    47.0    51.8    57.1
WorldngCapitallncrease   4.8    1.6  (3.6)   5.8   3.3     4.5      0.8    (0.4)  (16.6)   (2.0)   (0.8)      1.6     1.8      2.0     3.0     2.6      1.1
Interest                0.1  (0.1)  (0.4)   1.9   6.7    13.1    21.2    29.1    30.7    28.1    24.4    20.3    16.4    12.5          8.5     4.7      0.8
Debt Repayment          -     -       2.0    -     -       -        -      51.8    54.7    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0
Other                  14.2    -     -      -      -       .        -       -       -        -       -        -       -            -       -       -
Total                  19.1   9.4  75.2  112.1  177.0   200.2   247.8   310.9   135.1   125.0   111.4   113.1   112.9   113.2   114.6   115.1   115.0
CashChanges            11.0  11.4  51.5  49.2  25.7    40.4    372          17.8    12.2    (5.1)   (6.2)  (11.6)  (15.5)  (20.1)  (19.2)   (24.8)   (22.8)
EndingCash Balance      8.2   19.6  71.1  120A  146.1   186.6   223.8   241.6   253.8   248.6   242.4   230.8   215.4   195.3   176.0   151.2   128.5
Balance Sheets
Assets
CurentAssets           31.0  38.8  88.4  143.4  172.4   217.2   255.1   271.7   284.4   276.5   268.7   257.7   243.0   223.6   206.0   182.1   161.2
NetFixedAssets        354.4  336.9  326.9  311.7  294.5   281.1   273.7   263.3  1,257.1  1,211.4  1,167.0  1,124.1  1,082.7  1,043.0  1,005.3   969.7   936.3
Work in Progress       0.1   8.1  77.5  182,2  356.5   549.1   787.0  1,024.3    26.2    43.0    46.0    49.3    52.9    56.8    61.2    66.0    71.3
Odter Assets           57.2  57.2  57.2  57.2  57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2    57.2
Total                 442.6  441.0  550.0  694.5  880.5  1,104.6  1,372.9  1,616.5  1,624.9  1,588.2  1,538.9  1,4883  1,435.7  1,380.7  1329.7  1,275.0  1,226.0
Liabilities and Equity
Curent Liabilities     18.0  14.8  14.4  14.4  14.4    14.3    66.0    68.0    86.4    85.7    84.9    83.9    82.8    81.5    80.1    78.5    23.1
LongTermDebt            2.0    -     14.2  64.8  149.2   248.0   324.6   411.4   381.6   336.3   280.2   224.2   168.1   112.1    56.0         -
Equity                422.7  426.2  521.3  615.3  716.9   842.4   982.3  1,137.1  1,156.8  1,166,2  1,173.8  1,180.2  1,184.8  1.187.1  1.193.5  1,196.5  1,2029
Total                 442.6  441.0  550.0  694.5  880.5  1,104.6  1,372.9  1,616.5  1,624.9  1,5882  1,538.9  1,488.3  1,435.7  1,380.7  1,329.7  1,275.0  1,226.0
Financial Covenants
CostRecovery"           2.3   1.1   2.0   2.3   2.7         3.1     3.1     1.8      1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2     1.1      1.1     1.1     1.0      1.0
DebtServiceRatio          -     -             -      -       -        -     1.4      1.3     1.3      1.3     1.3      1.3     1.4     1.5     1.5      1.6
Revenues divided by thte tat of opweraig rnd m=ettanco enpuises pls th. greater of deprroiaion or debt srvimx
- 61 -



Table 12: Tangshan Water Supply Company - Summary Financial Projections
(Y million, current terns)
Actual stimate                                                Projected
1998   1999  2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007  2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014
Income Statements
Operating Revenue      75.4   93.2  105.2  124.9  136.5  149.2  162.8  177.7  179.6  190.6  192.6  206.3  208.5  210.7  234.2  236.7  263.1
OperatingExpenses      61.7  73.1   76.2   81.2   86.5   92.6  101.9  115.1  122.0  129.5  137.4  145.9  154.9  164.6  174.9  1860  197.8
Depreciation            13.2   13.1   13.5   13.7   13.9   14.1   14.4  31.7   32.0   32.5   33.0   33.6   34.1   34.8   35.5  36.2   37.0
Operating Income        0.5   7.1   15.5   29.9   36.2   42.4   46.5   30.9   25.5   28.6   22.2   26.9   19.4   11.3  23.8   14.5  28.3
Financial Charges      (0.5)  (0.2)  (0.2)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)   7.3   13.5   11.9   10.2    8.5    6.9    5.3    3.6    2.0    0.3
Non-OperatingExpenses   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1
IncomeTax               0.3    2.4    5.2   10.0   12.0   14.1   15.4    7.8    3.9    5.5    3.9    6.0    4.1    2.0    6.6   4.1    9.2
NetIncome               0.6    4.8   10.5   20.2   24.4   28.5   31.3   15.8    8.0   11.2    7.9   12.2    8.3   4.0   13.5    8.3   18.7
Sources & Applications of Funds
Sources
Internal Cash           13.3   17.7   23.8   33.6  38.0   42.4   45.4   54.8   53.5   55.5   51.2   54.3   49.3   44.0   52.5   46.5   56.0
LongTerm Borrowing      -      -       2.8   18.5   48.9   83.5   59.6    8.7    -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -
Equity Injection        4.9   10.0   27.4   15.2   17.8  26.0   10.4    3.0    -        -      -      -
Total                   18.3   27.7   54.0   67.4  104.7  151.9  115.5   66.6   53.5   55.5   51.2   54.3   49.3   44.0   52.5   46.5   56.0
Applications
FixedAssetlnvestment    17.4   10.0   36.5   46.2   90.5  142.8  102.0  20.1   11.9   12.8   13.8   14.9   16.1   17.4   18.8  20.3   21.9
Working Capital Increase   4.8    3.8   (1.8)   5.3    2.9    3.2    0.9    0.8    0.3    0.8    0.3    1.0    0.4    0.5    1.6   0.6    1.9
Interest                -      (0.2)  (0.2)   0.7    3.2    8.3   13.4   14.9   13.5   11.9   10.2    8.5    6.9    5.3    3.6   2.0    0.3
Debt Repayment          0.9    -       4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9    -     22.2   22.2   22.2   22.2   22.2   22.2   22.2   22.2   22.2   22.2
Other                          -          -          -      -             -      -      -      -          -      -      -      -      -
Total                  23.1   13.6   39.5   57.1  101.5  159.2  116.3   58.0   47.9   47.7   46.6   46.7   45.6   45.3   46.3   45.0   46.3
Cash Changes           (4.8)  14.2   14.5   10.3    3.3   (7.4)  (0.8)   8.6    5.7    7.9    4.6    7.6    3.7  (1.3)   6.3    1.5   9.7
Ending Cash Balance    21.4   35.5   50.1   60.4   63.6   56.3   55.4   64.0   69.7   77.5   82.1   89.8   93.5   92.2   98.5   99.9  109.6
Balance Sheets
Assets
CurrentAssets          31.1   52.5   63.7   77.8   82.2   76.1   76.6  86.9   93.4  102.7  108.2  117.5  122.4  122.3  131.0  133.9  146.4
NetFixed Assets       242.4  234.3  230.8  222.1  213.3  204.7  196.5  600.0  575.9  555.2  535.0  515.3  496.1  477.4  459.4  441.9  425.2
Work in Progress         5.0   10.0   36.6   78.8  167.7  313.5  423.0   15.5   19.5   20.4   21.4   22.5   23.7   25.0   26.4   27.9   29.5
Other Assets            0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Total                 278.8  297.1  331.3  378.9  463.4  594.5  696.4  702.7  689.0  678.6  664.9  655.6  642.4  625.0  617.0  604.0  601.4
Liabilities and Equity
CurrentLiabilities      11.5  20.0   18.3   16.9   15.1    8.3   30.9  31.9   32.5   33.1   33.7   34.4   35.1   35.8   36.6   37.5   16.2
LongTerm Debt           -      -       2.8   21.3   70.2  153.7  191.1  177.7  155.5  133.2  111.0   88.8   66.6   44.4  22.2   (0.0)  (0.0)
OtherLiabilities        19.5   14.7    9.8    4.9    -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -
Equity                247.7  262.5  300.4  335.9  378.1  432.6  474.3  493.1  501.1  512.3  520.2  532.4  540.7  544.7  558.2  566.5  585.2
Total                 278.8  297.1  331.3  378.9  463.4  594.5  696.4  702.7  689.0  678.6  664.9  655.6  642.4  625.0  617.0  604.0  601.4
Financial Covenants
Cost Rccovervy          1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.2   1.1    1.2    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Self Financing Ratio    64%    66%    67%    39%    29%    23%    35%    38%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%    92%   100%   100%   100%
Debt Service Ratio        -      -      -      -       -      -      -    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.6    1.8    1.7    1.6   2.0    1.9   2.5
Revenues divided by the total of operating and mairtenance expenses plus the greatec of depreciation or debt service.
-62 -



Table 13: Tangshan Wastewater Company - Summary Financial Projections
(Y million, current terms)
Actual Estimate                                                 Projected
199S   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013 ' 2014
Income Statements
OperatngRevenue         35.3   35.4   48.7   74.9   87.3   97.1  108,0  125.4  126.7  133.7  135.1  143.1  144.5  157.7  159.2  176.9  178.7
OperatingExpenses       19.7   25.7   29.4   43.6   46.2   48.8   51.7   68.4   71.7   75.7   79.9   84.3   89.0   94.1   99.5  105.4  lil.5
Depreciation            6.3    9.7   13.9   26.6   27.1   27.7   28.4   43.5   44.3   45.1   46.0   47.0   48.1   49.4   50.7   52.2   53.9
OpewatingIncome          9.3    0.0    5.4    4.7   14.0   20.6   28.0   13.5   10.7   12.9    9.2   11.7    7.4   14.1    9.0   19.3   13.3
Financial Charges               -      (0.1)  (0.2)  (0.3)  (0.4)  (0.5)   4.1    8.3    7.2    6.0    4.9    3.8    2.6    1.5    0.3   (0.8)
Non-Operating Expenses  -      (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.5)  (0.5)  (0.5)  (0.5)  (0.6)  (0.6)
IncowneTax              -       0.1    1.9    1.7    4.8    7.0    9.5    3.2    0.9    2.1    1.2    2.4    1.4    4.0    2.7    6.4    4.9
NetIncme                 9.3    0.3    3.9    3.5    9.8   14.3   19.3    6.5    1.9    4.2    2.4    4.9    2.7    8.1    5.4   13.1    9.9
Sources & Applications of Funds
Sources
intemnalCash            15.6   10.0   17.7   29.9   36.6   41.6   47.2   54.2   54.4   56.4   54.5   56.8   54.6   60.1   57.6   65.7   62.9
LongTenn Borrowing       0.4    -      5.0   27.5   31.9   36.3   28.9   14.2    -        -       -      -       -      -      -              -
Equity Injection       142.9   53.2   99.1  273.8   21.0   21.4   19.5    6.0    -        -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Total                  158.8   63.2  121.8  331.1   89.5   99.4   95.6   74.4   54.4   56.4   54.5   56.8   54.6   60.1   57.6   65.7   62.9
Applications
FixedAssetInvestrment  149.2   53.2  112.7  313.1   66.6   70.1   61.9   33.9   15.5   17.0   18.8   20.7   22.8   25.1   27.7   30.5   33.6
WorkingCapitallncrease   6.0   (0.8)   0.2    0.6    0.9    0.6    0.0   (1.3)  (0.1)   0.3   (0.1)   0.3   (0.0)   0.6   (0.0)   0.8   (0.0)
Interest                    -          (0.0)    1.3    3.4    5.8    8.1    8.9    8.3    7.2    6.0    4.9    3.8    2.6    1.5    0.3   (0.8)
Debt Repayment          -       -      -      -       -      -      -      14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4
Other                   0.3    -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -              -
Total                  155.5   52.5  112.9  315.0   70.9   76.5   70.0   55.9   38.0   38.8   39.1   40.3   40.9   42.7   43.5   46.1   47.2
CashChanges              3.3   10.7    9.0   16.1   18.6   22.9   25.6   18.5   16.4   17.6   15.3   16.6   13.8   17.3   14.1   19.6   15.7
EndingCashBalance        3.3   14.1   23.1   39.2   57.8   80.6  106.2  124.7  141.1  158.7  174.0  190.6  204.3  221.7  235.8  255.3  271.1
Balance Sheets
Assets
CurrentAssets           11.3   22.7   30.6   49.6   69.3   93.1  119.0  138.9  155.6  173.9  189.6  206.9  221.2  239.6  254.2  275.2  291 5
NetFixedAssets         137.7  181.3  253.0  484.5  468.9  453.4  438.1  702.4  673.6  645.5  618.3  592.0  566.6  542.4  519.3  497.6  477.4
WorkinProgress           5.2    5.2   32.4   88.8  147.6  211.7  269.1    -        -       -      -      -       -      -      -
Other Assets             0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Total                  154.5  209.4  316.2  623.2  686.1  758.3  826.4  841.5  829.4  819.6  808.1  799.2  788.0  782.2  773.8  773.1  769.2
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities     2.4    3.7    2.5    4.8    5.0    5.2   19.9   22.7   23.1   23.5   24.0   24.5   25.0   25.5   26.0   26.6   12.9
LongTermDebt            -       -      5.0   32.5   64.3  100.7  115.2  115.1  100.7   86.3   71.9   57.5   43.1   28.8   14.4    0.0    0.0
Other Liabilities
Equity                 152.1  205.6  308.7  586.0  616.7  652.4  691.3  703.8  705.6  709.8  712.2  717.2  719.9  728.0  733.4  746.5  756.3
Total                  154.5  209.4  316.2  623.2  686.1  758.3  826.4  841.5  829.4  819.6  808.1  799.2  788.0  782.2  773.8  773.1  769.2
Financial Covenants
CostRecoverya/           1.4    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Debt Service Ratio        -       -      -      -       -      -       -    2.3    2.4    2.6    2.7    2.9    3.0    3.5    3.6    4.5    4.6
Revenues divided by the tota sf operating and rmintenre expen pis the grease of depreciation or debt srvice.
- 63 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Procurement
1.    Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group, as reflected in
Table A below, were agreed upon with Hebei Project Management Office (HEPMO) and with the
implementing agencies. All procurement would be undertaken in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines, January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and January 1999.
Activities would be organized through the CMC International Tender Company, which would be
contracted by HEPMO on behalf of the implementing agencies and Hebei Province (SP) to carry
out the work. CMC is an experienced and competent procurement agent that has recent and
relevant experience in international competitive bidding (ICB) work on Bank Group-financed
projects. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the UN Development
Business, No. 530, dated March 16, 2000. The tender documents to be used in the project have
been based on the current version of model bidding documents agreed between the World Bank
Group and the Government. Works contracts have been grouped whenever practical into larger
bid packages to promote local and international competition. For all civil work contracts
estimated to cost $5.0 million or more, invitations for bids would be advertised as Specific
Procurement Notices published in United Nations Development Business and/or well-known
technical magazines, newspapers and trade publications of wide international circulation.
Contracts for goods have been grouped into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$400,000 or more each, to attract maximum international competition.
2.    The China NCB procedures for works have been reviewed by the World Bank Group and
found some deviations in the internal procurement procedures, such as bracketing and merit point
system used in prequalification and bid evaluation. The Implementing Agencies are fully
committed to strictly comply with the bank's procurement procedures/policies for the Bank
financed contracts.  In case there are any discrepencies between local policy and bank's
requirement, the Bank policy and guidelines will prevail. The Hebei Province shall pay particular
attention to ensure that the following procedures are followed:
(a)   all invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised both in a newspaper of
national circulation in the Borrower's country, and in a local newspaper of provincial-wide
circulation in the Project Province;
(b)   such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses; and
in any event a minimum of 30 days shall be given to bidders between the date of
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission;
(c)   qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification
of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents;
- 64 -



(d)   all bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to protect
the Project Province in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding
documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security;
(e)   the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such
bids;
(f)   all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an opportunity to be
present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, but
bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening;
(g)   no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any
standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by the Project
Province; and
(h)   each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, that is to say, the
bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has
been determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to
offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition
of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents or
otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
3.    Civil Works. There is a total of about $143 million of civil works, of which about $58
million (40 percent) would be procured using ICB procedures. Qualified domestic contractors
under ICB would be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in accordance with the
Guidelines. ICB procedures would be used for all civil works contracts of estimated value over
$8.0 million (i.e., contracts). All remaining civil works are too small, scattered or scheduled too
far apart to be of interest to foreign firms. Of the remaining works, about $85 million would be
awarded through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank Group.
Interested foreign bidders would be allowed to bid for NCB contracts.
4.    Equipment and Materials. There is a total of about $80 million of equipment and
materials in the project, of which about $60 million (75 percent) would be procured using ICB
procedures. Qualified domestic bidders would be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15
percent of the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) price or customs duties and import tax payable by
a nonexempt importer, whichever is less. All equipment and materials with individual contract
values of $400,000 or more equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures. Equipment and
materials with individual contract values less than $400,000 equivalent would be awarded using
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank Group, up to an aggregate amount of $17.5 million.
5.    Direct Contracting. Direct contracting (not Bank Group-financed), amounting to about
$2.4 million, would be used for contracts to be made with the local power companies to provide
electricity supplies to the pump stations, buildings and facilities under the project and other
utilities.
- 65 -



6.    Technical Assistance and Training. All consultants to be retained under the project
would be recruited in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997, and revised in September
1997 and January 1999 (Table A-1 of this Annex). For contracts estimated to cost less than
$200,000 equivalent, HP may engage national consultants, using Quality and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS). Consultants would be engaged using the Bank's Standard Form of Contract
for Consultants' Services-July 1997 (revised in April 1998 and July 1999). Drafts of Letters of
Invitation and Terms of Reference for institutional and financial technical assistance, construction
supervision services, and sector institutional strengthening for (a) Package A -
financial/institutional support for the water supply and wastewater utility companies; and (b)
Package B - construction supervision for the water supply and wastewater utility companies, and
support for HEPMO would be reviewed prior to negotiations. Details of the institutional
strengthening and training component are summarized in Annex 2. The signing of contracts
between HP and consulting firms for such assistance under Packages A and B is a condition of
disbursement for civil works. The Terms of Reference for the main consultancy assignments are in
the Project File (Annex 10).
Prior-Review Thresholds (Table B)
7.    Prior-review procedures would be used for (a) all civil works contracts (about 13
contracts, 85 percent of the works) of $5.0 million or more; (b) all equipment and materials
contracts (about 10 contracts, 75 percent of the equipment and materials costs) of $250,000 or
more; and (c) consultant services contracts with an estimated contract cost of more than $100,000
for firms and $50,000 for individuals. In the case of consultancy service contracts, all terms of
reference, regardless of the value of the contract, would be subject to prior review. For contracts
below the above-mentioned limits, post-review procedures would be followed. An estimated 75
percent of the value of all contracts proposed to be financed by the Bank Group would be subject
to prior review. The sampling ratio for contracts not subject to prior review would be 33 percent.
Procurement Contract Packaging
8.    The contract packaging is provided in Table C, showing the goods, works and service
contracts proposed for each subcomponent.
Disbursement
9.    Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Table E). Allocation of loan proceeds is
shown in Table E.
10.   Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Withdrawal from the loan account would be
made on the basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts costing less than
$5.0 million; (b) goods under contracts costing less than $400,000; (c) services provided by
consulting firmns under contracts costing less than $100,000; and (d) services provided by
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000.
-66 -



11.   Authorization, Allocation  and  Operation  of Special Account. To  facilitate
disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an authorized allocation of $10 million
equivalent, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month period. The initial allocation will
be limited to $ 6 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals reaches $75 million.
12.   Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of up to $5.0 million would be applied to
expenditures made after March 15, 2000 for construction of civil works ($4.2 million),
consultants for supervision of construction and training of local supervision staff ($0.3 million);
and purchase of equipment ($0.5 million).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ......._M 
Procurement Method,
Expenditure Category          I1Cs X: Other                             N.B.F.  --        Cost
1. Works                          57.70         85.40          0.00          0.00         143.10
(26.40)       (39.30)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (65.70)
2. Goods                          60.60         17.40          0.00          2.30         80.30
(57.40)       (13.10)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (70.50)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00         12.40          0.00         12.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (12.40)        (0.00)       (12.40)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00          0.00         35.00         35.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Interest during                0.00           0.00          0.00         21.00         21.00
construction
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                  0.00           0.00          0.00          1.50          1.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.50)        (1.50)
Total                          118.30        102.80        12.40         59.80         293.30
(83.80)       (52.40)       (12.40)        (1.50)       (150.10)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii)
re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 67 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           12.40     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      12.40
(12.40)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (12.40)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Total  12.40      0.00      0.00)     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      12.40
(12.40)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (12.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 68 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Threshold              Pro ementrior review
More than $5.0 million         NCB               IO contracts $74.4 m
subject to prior review
2. Goods                More than $0.4 million          ICB            8 contracts $45.2 m subject
to prior review
Between $0.04 million and       NCB              I contracts $0.24 m not
$0.05 million                               subject to prior review
3. Services           More than $0.10 million for      QCBS             $12.4 m subject to prior
firms and $0.05 for                                  review
individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $206.2 million (88% of
total)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-69 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
*                              FinS,E''ancig Perceiut~g,,j'ul,W30tsayte4A00.!G}S'SHR/ .0 0 ' 0  ........ :_ ,0W0"
Civil Works                                  62.30                          46%
Goods                                        66.90              100% of foreign expenditures or
100% of local expenditures for
locally manufactured goods or
75% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultant Services & Training               11.80                   100% of expenditures
Unallocated                                  7.50                           100%
Total Project Costs                         148.50
Interest during construction         0.00
Front-end fee          1.50                          100%
Total                                       150.00
Special account:
Table D: Contract Packages and Method of Procurement
Contract Packages                                                  Yuan Million     Procurement
Type
Shiiiazhuang Wastewater (SWW)
Civil Works Contracts
C. I Main trunk sewers                                              49.2               NCB
C.2 Second ring road & WWTP trunk mains + network sewers            45.1               NCB
C.3 Advance works WWTP and inlet pumping station                    45.9               NCB
C.4 Digester and blower works                                      182.1               ICB
C.5 Wastewater treatment plant works                               244.3               ICB
Mechanical & Electrical "Supply and Installation" Contracts
M. I Wastewater treatment plant equipment                           73.2               ICB
M.2 Laboratory equipment and spare parts                            16.9               ICB
E. 1 Electrical power supply                                         7.1              NBGF
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                   44.2               NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                       708.0
- 70 -



Tangshan Water Supply (TWS)
Civil Works Contracts
C. 1 Raw water inlet pumping station                                 42.4                NCB
C.2 Raw water transmission main                                       50.1               NCB
C.3 Water treatment plant works                                       58.1               NCB
C.4 Strengthening distribution network                                35.4               NCB
Mechanical & Electrical "Supply and Installation" Contracts
M. 1 Water treatment plant equipment                                  59.6               ICB
M.2 Laboratory equipment and vehicles                                  8.3               ICB
E.1  Electrical power supply                                           2.6               NBGF
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                                       29.2               NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                        285.7
Tan2shan Wastewater (TWW)
Civil Works Contracts
C.1 Wastewater treatment plant                                        59.2               NCB
C.2 Sewer network east                                                27.8               NCB
C.3 Sewer network west                                                11.2               NCB
Mechanical & Electrical "Supply and Installation" Contracts
M.1 Wastewater treatment plant                                        39.7               ICB
M.2 Sludge treatment equipment                                        18.1               ICB
S.l  Laboratory and communication equipment, vehicles                  2.9               NCB
E. 1 Electrical power supply                                           6.0               NBGF
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                                       21.4               NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                        186.3
Handan Water Supply (HWS)
Civil Works Contracts
C. I Raw water intake pumping station and upstream part of
Transmission main                                                66.0               NCB
C.2 Raw water transmission pipeline, downstream part                  40.5               NCB
C.3 Water treatment plant works                                       27.0               NCB
C.4 Distribution network strengthening                                44.9               NCB
C.5 Distribution network strengthening                                46.2               NCB
Mechanical & Electrical "Supply and Installation" Contracts
M.1 Water treatment plant equipment                                   32.1               ICB
S.1 Lab equipment & spare parts                                        2.3               NCB
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                                       14.0              NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                        273.0
Handan Wastewater (HWW)
Civil Works Contracts
C. 1 Trunk sewer and drainage network strengthening - east            38.5               NCB
C.2 Trunk sewer and drainage network strengthening - west             34.2               NCB
C.3 North sewage pumping station & expansion of sludge                10.2               NCB
Treatment at existing WWTP
C.4 Wastewater treatment plant works                                  74.7               ICB
Mechanical & Electrical "Supply and Installation" Contracts
M. 1 Wastewater treatment plant equipment                             62.4               ICB
S.1 Lab equipment                                                      2.1               NCB
E.1 Electrical power supply                                            0.6              NBGF
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                                       23.3              NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                        245.9
- 71 -



Technical Assistance                                     Person-months        Base Cost
National  Int'l  $ million (Y million)
Ref     Title
A      Package A: FinanciaVlInstitutional                241      83.5       4.0  (33.2)
B      Package B: Design Review Advisory,
Construction Management,
and Quality Assurance                 664     75.0       3.7  (30.7)
C      Package C: Operational Enhancement                                    2.0  (16.6)
D      Package D: Industrial Pollution Control                               0.7  (6.0)
Total All Packages                                                   10.5 (86.5)
- 72 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
PctS:hedule                                                                     Act=3aI
(as per PCD)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24
First Bank mission (identification)             05/15/98                      05/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      03/01/2000                   03/04/2000
Negotiations                                    04/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    11/01/2000
Prepared by:
Hebei Project Management Office, under the direction of the Hebei Provincial Government Leading Group,
and the Hebei Finance Bureau.
Preparation assistance:
Trust funds provided by the Government of France and
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name               -                     ;Speciality
Elisabetta Capannelli             Project Economics/Institutional Analysis
Sun Chongwu                       Environmental Assessment
Jack Fritz                        Environmental Assessment
Socorro Manila                    ProjectlDocument Processing
George Taylor                     Water Quality & Wastewater Treatment
Ken Rippin                        Cost Analysis
Dan O'Heam                        Financial Analysis
Zong Yan                          Municipal Finance
Margaret Png                      Legal
Shi Jinan                         Procurement
R. Gopalkrishnan                  Procurement
Zhang Zhun                        Technical (Water Supply and Wastewater)
Chen Tianshi                      Interpretation/Translation
Chaohua Zhang                     Resettlement
Zou Youlan                        Resettlement
Lanqing Jia                       Environmental Assessment
Dawn Vermilya                     Financial Analysis
Chau-Ching Shen                   Financial Management Systems
- 73 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
This document dated May 2, 2000 was sent to the Project Office and a copy is in the project files.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank mission reports; Procurement Assessment Analysis (April 30, 1999, May 23, 2000); and
C. Other
1. Environmental Assessment Reports
(a) Terms of Reference
Environmental Impact Assessment of the Water Supply Project to Central District of
Tangshan City (May 1997);
Environmental Impact Assessment of Shijiazhuang Municipal Sewage Treatment
Project (October 1997);
Environmental Impact Assessment of Tangshan Municipal Western Suburb Second
Wastewater Treatment Plant (October 1997);
Environmental Impact Assessment of Handan Water Supply Project (January 1998);
Environmental Impact Assessment of Handan West Wastewater Treatment Plant
(January 1998); and
Environmental Impact Assessment of Hebei Water Supply and Environment
Protection Project (July 1998).
(b) Environmental Impact Assessments of:
Shijiazhuang Municipal Sewage Treatment Project (August 1998, March 1999,
October 1999);
Water Supply Project to Central District of Tangshan City (August 1998,
March 1999, October 1999, January 2000);
Tangshan Municipal Western Suburb Second Wastewater Treatment Plant
(August 1998, March 1999, October 1999, January 2000);
Handan Water Supply Project (August 1998, March 1999, October 1999,
January 2000);
Handan West Wastewater Treatment Plant (August 1998, March 1999,
October 1999, January 2000); and
Hebei Water Supply and Environment Protection Project (September 1998, March
1999, October 1999, January 2000).
2. Resettlement Action Plans for:
Sewage Treatment Project of Shijiazhuang City (October 1998, March 1999,
August 1999, December 1999, January 2000);
Urban Environment Project of Tangshan City (October 1998, March 1999,
August 1999, December 1999, January 2000); and
Urban Environment Prorject of Handan City (October 1998, March 1999,
August 1999, December 1999, January 2000).
- 74 -



3. Technical Reports
(a) Proposal for Hebei Urban Environment Project (November 1997)
(b) Preliminary Feasibility Study Reports for proposed:
Shijiazhuang Municipal Sewage Treatment Project (February 1997);
Tangshan Municipal Western Suburb Second Wastewater Treatment Plant
(February 1997);
Tangshan Central District Water Supply Project (February 1997); and
Handan Water Supply Project (February 1997).
(c) Supplementary Reports to Preliminary Feasibility Study Report of proposed:
Shijiazhuang Municipal Sewage Treatment Project (November 1997);
Tangshan Municipal Western Suburb Second Wastewater Treatment Plant
(November 1997); and
Tangshan Central District Water Supply Project (November 1997).
(d) Draft and Final Feasibility Report of HUEP (October 1998)
(e) Feasibility Study Reports of HUEP (March 1999) and proposed:
Shijiazhuang Municipal Sewage Treatment Project (March 1999);
Tangshan Municipal Western Suburb Second Wastewater Treatment Plant
(March 1999);
Tangshan Central District Water Supply Project (March 1999);
Handan Water Supply Project (March 1999); and
Handan Wastewater Project (March 1999).
(f) Supplementary Report to Feasibility Report of proposed HUEP (October 1999); and
(g) Draft Project Implementation Plan (October 1999, January 2000 - see above)
4. Letters of Commitment to increase Tariffs (Water and Wastewater) from:
Shijiazhuang Municipal People's Government - Wastewater (February 17, 2000);
Price Bureau of Hebei Province - Wastewater to cover Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and
Handan (February 17, 2000);
Shijiazhuang Municipal Price Bureau - Wastewater (March 29, 2000);
Tangshan Municipal People's Government - Wastewater (February 17, 2000);
Tangshan Municipal People's Govenrment - Water (February 17, 2000);
Handan Municipal People's Government - Water and Wastewater (March 31, 2000);
Tangshan Municipal Price Bureau/Tangshan Municipal Finance Bureau - Wastewater
(April 17, 2000).
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actuai
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRO      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P040513        1996 China                      2NDHENAN PROV HWY                                 210.00       0.00       0.00     149.40      73.40       0.00
P003619        1998 China                      2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                              123.00       0.00       0.00     113.92      34.93       0.00
P003652        1996 China                      2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                              210.00       0.00       0.00      92.41      49.41       0.00
P051856        1999 China                      ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                                27.40       5.61       0.00      30.88      11.29       0.00
P003559        1993 China                     AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                                 0.00     115.00       0.00       4.37      -3.55       0.00
P050036        1999 China                      ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                              200.00       0.00       0.00     178.01      17.66       0.00
P003563        1996 China                      ANIMAL FEED                                       150.00       0.00       0.00     133.27     129.96      53.27
P049665        1999 China                     ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                                90.00      30.00       0.00      98.56       1.09       0.00
P003602        1996 China                     CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                         125.00      25.00      28.32      78.87      87.34       1.29
P003603        1995 China                     CHINA-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF             275.00      75.00      20.00     163.94     160.04     22.03
P057352        1999 China                      CHINA-FOURTHRURALWATERSUPPLYPROJECT                16.00      30.00       0.00      44.84       2.99       0.00
P036414        1998 China                      CHINA-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT            72.00      20.00       0.00      88.11      12.48       0.00
P056491        1998 China                      CHINA-HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION               0.00      28.40       0.00       0.43      -8.44       0.00
P003598        1995 China                      CHINA-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                110.00       0.00       0.00      52.16      50.67       0.00
P003637        1997 China                      CHINA-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                      0.00      70.00       0.00      59.21      24.37      13.69
P040185        1998 China                      CHINA-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                 95.00       0.00       0.00      79.99      39.19       0.00
P003586        1994 China                      CHINA-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                160.00       0.00       0.00      54.64      53.93       0.00
P003648        1996 China                      CHINA-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT II                250.00       0.00       0.00     123.99      95.70       0.00
P043933        1999 China                      CHINA-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT           150.00       2.00       0.00     152.02       4.00       0.00
P003580        1993 China                      CHINA-SO. JIANGSU ENVMT PROTECTION PROJ           250.00       0.00       0.00       3.25       2.45       0.00
P003568        1992 China                     CHINA-TIANJIN URBAN DEV& ENVMT PROJECT               0.00     100.00       0.00       9.46       6.44       2.98
P003599        1996 China                      CHINA-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                  125.00      25.00       0.00     132.17      49.33      -2.72
P003473        1993 China                      CHINA-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT              0.00     110.00       0.00      13.43      13.01       2.75
P036952        1997 China                      CN-BASIC ED. IV                                     0.00      85.00       0.00      23.90     -12.47       0.00
P036950        1996 China                     CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                                0.00     100.00       0.00       1.03       0.84       0.00
P003636        1995 China                     CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR& MINORITY AREA II              0.00     100.00       0.00       0.99       3.04       0.00
P003566        1998 China                     CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                              0.00      85.00       0.00      75.76       9.70       0.00
P003646        1996 China                     CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                            170.00       0.00     153.99      15.61     139.60       5.60
P003589        1996 China                     CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                        0.00     100.00       0.00      40.55      45.61       0.00
P036953        1999 China                      CN-HEALTH IX                                       10.00      50.00       0.00      56.75       1.89       0.00
P046051        1999 China                      CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                             20.00      50.00       0.00      64.39      11.80       0.00
P003624        1992 China                      CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES (HLTH5)                      0.00     129.60       0.00      22.92      18.39      18.35
P037156        1995 China                      CN-IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL              7.00      20.00       7.00       0.31       9.98       2.96
P034618        1996 China                      CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                               10.00      20.00       0.00      21.33      23.10       0.00
P003634        1995 China                      CN-MATERNAL CHILD HEALT(HLTH6)                      0.00      90.00       0.00      12.53      15.30       0.00
P058308        1999 China                      CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                               0.00       5.00       0.00       4.98       2.63       0.00
P003502        1994 China                      CN-RURAL HEALTH MANPOWER (HLTH4)                    0.00     110.00       0.00      11.47      10.30       0.00
P003635        1997 China                      CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                            10.00      20.00       0.00       5.57      -0.30       0.00
P003653        1999 China                      CONTAINER TRANSPORT                                71.00       0.00       0.00      70.29      45.19       0.00
P051736        1998 China                      E. CHINAtJIANGSU PWR                              250.00       0.00       0.00     234.74     185.74      46.34
P003647        1995 China                      ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                 0.00      10.00       0.00       5.22       5.76       0.00
P003606        1998 China                      ENERGY CONSERVATION                                63.00       0.00       0.00      61.20       6.29       0.00
P060270        1999 China                      ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                                0.00       5.00       0.00       4.97       3.01       0.00
P003632        1993 China                      ENVIRONMENTTECHASS                                  0.00      50.00       0.00       9.25       9.67       8.06
- 76 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Fnm Revd
P003507       1996 China                      ERTAN HYDRO 11                                   400.00      0.00       0.00      11.64      -2.28       0.00
P003623       1993 China                      FINANCIALSECTORT.A                                 0.00     60.00       0.00      17.41      19.33      12.61
P036041       1995 China                      FISCAL & TAX REF. &                               25.00     25.00        0.00     40.04      41.95       1.81
P003557       1994 China                      FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                0.00    200.00        0.00     16.81       4.51     -40.92
P046952       1998 China                      FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                             100.00     100.00       0.00    177.75       0.28      23.16
P051705       1999 China                      FUJIAN II HWY                                    200.00       0.00      0.00     198.00      19.00       0.00
P003626       1994 China                      FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                              140.00      0.00       0.00      46.59      44.59      25.42
P003594       1996 China                      GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                               60.00      90.00       0.00    112.62      36.84       0.00
P003627       1993 China                      GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                             325.00     165.00       0.00    252.25     252.92      34.72
P003518       1993 China                      GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                        240.00       0.00       0.00      0.62       0.62       0.11
P058843       2000 China                      GUANGXI HWY Project                              200.00       0.00       0.00    200.00       0.00       0.00
P003614       1998 China                      GUANGZ. CITYCRT.TRP                              200.00       0.00       0.00    142.92      39.26       0.00
P051888       1999 China                      GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                              80.00      20.00       0.00     94.98      16.31       0.00
P003504       1994 China                      HEBEVHENAN NATIONAL                              380.00       0.00       0.00     16.22      16.22       0.00
P038988       1997 China                      HEILONGJIANG ADP                                 120.00       0.00       0.00     68.06      15.22       0.00
P003581       1993 China                      HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                            120.00       0.00       0.00      6.55       6.55       0.00
P035698       1998 China                      HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00      0.00        0.00    300.00      60.75       0.00
P003654       1997 China                      HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                             400.00      0.00        0.00    266.32     116.32       0.00
P049700       1998 China                     IAIL-2                                            300.00      0.00        0.00    249.28      42.48       0.00
P003493       1995 China                     INLAND WATERWAYS                                  210.00      0.00        0.00     37.43       3.83       0.00
P041890       1999 China                      LIAONING URBTRANSP                               150.00      0.00        0.00    141.50      27.50       0.00
P003540       1994 China                      LOESS PLATEAU                                      0.00     150.00       0.00     14.16     -16.92       0.00
P056216       1999 China                      LOESS PLATEAU II                                 100.00      50.00       0.00    143.62      22.75       0.00
P036949       1998 China                      NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                                  250.00       0.00       0.00    201.94      14.44       0.00
P041268       1999 China                      NAT.HWY4-HUBEI/HUNAN                             350.00       0.00       0.00    338.50      13.25       0.00
P003590       1997 China                      QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                              30.00     150.00       0.00    118.74      42.73       0.00
P003570       1993 China                      RAILWAY VI                                       420.00       0.00       0.00     44.56      44.56     -19.31
P003571       1995 China                      RAILWAYS VII                                     400.00       0.00      29.00    309.62     250.62      34.16
P003595       1994 China                      RED SOILS l1 DEVELOP                               0.00     150.00       0.00     30.88      19.62       2.94
P003592       1993 China                      REF. INST`L.& PREINV                               0.00      50.00       0.00     14.06      14.14       0.00
P046829       1999 China                      RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     100.00       0.00       0.00    100.00       0.00       0.00
P003638       1998 China                      SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                              80.00      20.00       0.00     59.17      26.72       0.00
P003622       1994 China                      SHANGHAI MTP II                                  150.00       0.00       0.00      6.75       6.75       0.00
P044485       1997 China                      SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                              400.00       0.00       0.00    361.22      36.42       0.00
P003569       1996 China                      SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                             260.00       0.00       7.75     78.35      50.61      42.60
P003649       1996 China                      SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                               0.00     100.00       0.00     25.87       5.96       0.00
P003585       1995 China                      SHENYANG IND. REFORM                             175.00       0.00       0.00     66.21      47.61       0.00
P003609       1994 China                      SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                   255.00       0.00       0.00     87.60      64.60       0.00
P036947       1995 China                      SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                             270.00       0.00       0.00    112.07     110.87       2.72
P045264       2000 China                      SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                              93.50       0.00       0.00     93.50       4.35       0.00
P003593       1994 China                      SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                 0.00     205.00       0.00      14.37     -3.68       0.00
P003639       1995 China                      SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                              47.50     200.00       0.00     60.13      46.40       0.00
P003591       1998 China                      STATE FARMS COMMERCI                             150.00       0.00       0.00     90.93      -7.47       0.00
P003539       1998 China                      SUST COAST RES DEV                               100.00       0.00       0.00     83.18       3.18       0.00
P003597       1993 China                      TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                             100.00     100.00       0.00     23.81      19.46       5.01
- 77 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements   -
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P046563       1998 China                      TARIM BASIN II                                    90.00      60.00        0.00     130.42,     27.24       0.00
P042299       1999 China                      TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                10.00      35.00        0.00      44.42,      -0.10      0.00
P003600       1995 China                      TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                             200.00       0.00        0.00      89.92,     59.33       0.00
P003633       1994 China                      TELECOMMUNICATIONS                               250.00       0.00       30.00       13.80,    43.80       5.40
P003616       1993 China                      TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                              300.00       0.00        0.00  62.05,6.70,    53.35       0.00
P003533       1993 China                      TIANJIN IND. II                                  150.00       0.00       40.35     320.00,     44.55       4.44
P056424       2000 China                      TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                             320.00       0.00        0.00      194.84,     0.00       D.00
P045788       1998 China                      TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                               230.00       0.00        0.00     338.73,     55.34       0.00
P003650       1997 China                      TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                             400.00       0.00       24.00     280.10,    235.68      22.02
P036405       1997 China                      WANJIAZHAIWATERTRA                               400.00       0.00        0.00      158.61,    67.10       0.00
P046564       1999 China                      WESTERN POVERTY RED                               60.00     100.00        0.00     219.17,     20.55       0.00
P034081       1997 China                      XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                             430.00       0.00        0.00  0.25,17.59,    125.60      0.00
P003562       1994 China                      XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                          460.00       0.00        0.00      20.67,      4.78       0.00
P003644       1994 China                      XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                            0.00     110.00        0.00     211.52,     10.45       0.00
P003612       1995 China                      XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                               150.00       0.00        0.00  9.26, 39.65,   20.67       0.00
P003643       1997 China                      XINJIANG HWY II                                  300.00       0.00        0.00      47.48,    110.52       0.00
P003596       1995 China                      YANGTZE BASIN WATER                              100.00     110.00        0.00      103.68,     -6.70      0.00
P063123       1999 China                      YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                              40.00      40.00        0.00       12.88     15.39       0.39
P003641       1994 China                      YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                             350.00       0.00        0.00                 47.18       0.00
P003642       1995 China                      ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                              400.00       0.00        0.00                 12.88       0.00
P003534       1992 China                      ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                             220.00       0.00        0.00                 12.88      12.38
Total:   15790.40     3965.61      340.41     9799.06   3982.42    344.28
- 78 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999               Bank of Shanghai              0.00   21.76    0.00    0.00    0.00   21.76    0.00    0.00
1996               Beijing Hormel                4.28    0.50    0.00    4.40    4.28    0.50    0.00    4.40
1998               CIG Port Holding              0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Caltex Ocean                 21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1998               Chengdu Chemical              0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94         China Bicycles                0.00    0.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.95    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden JV               0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden Mgt              0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994               Dalian Glass                  10.39    2.40    0.00   18.97   10.39    2.40    0.00   18.97
1999               Dujiangyan                    25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Dupont Suzhou                20.25    4.15    0.00   36.40   20.25    4.15    0.00   36.40
1994               Dynamic Fund                  0.00   12.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.70    0.00    0.00
1999               Hansom                        0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996               Jingyang                     40.00    0.00    0.00   100.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00
1998               Leshan Scana                  6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    3.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996               NanjingKumho                  11.68    3.81    0.00   33.22   11.68    3.81    0.00   33.22
1995               Newbridge Inv.                0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997               Ningbo                        0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Orient Finance                13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67   13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67
1997               PTP Hubei                     12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1994/97            PTP Leshan                    3.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Pacific Ports                 0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC                 2.03    0.00    0.00    2.03    2.03    0.00    0.00    2.03
1998               Shanghai Krupp               30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Shanxi                        19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
1995               SuzhouPVC                    20.17    2.48    0.00   20.35   20.17    2.48    0.00   20.35
1998               WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri               3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Yantai Cement                 11.43    1.95    0.00    6.10   11.43    1.95    0.00    6.10
1998               Zhen Jing                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      264.04   88.26    0.00  407.32  186.35   83.41    0.00  308.52
- 79 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              BOS RI                           0.00      0.00   3841.37     0.00
2000              CIG Hld ltd                      0.00      0.00   3000.00      0.00
2000              CIG Zhapu                     6000.00   5000.00      0.00      0.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical              7400.00      0.00      0.00   8600.00
1997              Chinefarge                   12800.00      0.00      0.00  20000.00
1998              Orient Fin A Inc              3333.33      0.00      0.00     0.00
1997              PTP Holdings                     0.00      0.00   1500.00     0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                  0.00      0.00      0.00   1500.00
2000              Shizuishan Carbn              6300.00      0.00   1700.00   6000.00
1998              XIB                          50000.00      0.00  20000.00     0.00
1998              Zhen Jing                     4500.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    90333.33   5000.00  30041.37  36100.00
- 80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
East                                                  912/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &     Low-
China    Pacific  Income        Development diamond
1998
Ponulation. mid-vear (millions)                      1.238.6     1.817     3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP Der caoita (Atlas method. US$)                      750       990        520
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                      928.9      1.802     1.844
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation (%)                                          1.0        1.2       1.7
Labor force ({X                                         1.3        1.6       1.9      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-98)                                 capita                        enmrlment
Povertv (X of Dooulation below national oovertv line)     f
Urban nonulation (% of total ooDulation)                 33        35         31
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                         70        69         63
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live birfhs)                 32        37         f9
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               16         20        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of oooulation)                   83         77        74
Illiteracv (% of DooDulation aoe 15+)                    17         15        32
Gross nrimarv enrollment (% ofschool-aoa Donulation)    120        117       108            Chmna        Low-income group
Male                                                  120       119        113
Female                                                120       118        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997       1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           172.3    268.2      902.0     960.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 28.5     36.1       38.2      38.8                      Trade
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP              4.8     13.6       23.0      19.1
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                    29.0     36.2       42.6      43.4
Gross natinnal savinnsniGOP                   29 0     36 2       41 5      41 4
Current account balance/GDP                    0.2      0.1        3.8       3.4      Domesttc                     Investment
Interest navmentlt) DP                                  0 4        06        07      +saIngs
Total debt/GDP                                   ..    13.2       16.3      16.2       avin9s
Total debt service/exoorts                      ..      9.6        9.8       9.5
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..      ..       14.9
Present value of debt/exoorts                   ..       ..       62.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averace annual arowthl
GDP                                   9.8     10.3      8.8        7.8       7.0 0awc                                g
GNP Der caDita                        8.5      8.8      7.4        6.5       6.2             China        tow-income group
Exnorts of ooods and services        18.4     14.4     23.1        4.6       4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997       1998      Growth rates of output and Investment 4%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                   29.4     26.8       18.7      18.0    30
Industrv                                      47.1     43.9       49.5      49.2    20
Manufacturina                               31.1      34.4      37.3       36.8     1
Services                                      23 4     29 3       32.1      32.8
Private consumotion                           63.4     51.3       45.7      44.5             93   94   95   96   97   se
General oovernment consumDtion                 7.5     12.5       11.6      11.9 9GD                            CGDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                  4.2     13.5       18.5      14.3
(averaae annual orowth)                    1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Aoriculture                                    6.4      4.4        3.5       3.5    40
Industry                                      10.9     14.1       10.8       9.2    30
Manufacturino                               11.4      13.4       9.9        8.9
Services                                      127       86         8 2       76      20
Private consumntion                            9.7      8.6        7.7       6.7    10
General oovernment consumotion                 9.0      9.9        8.2       8.4
Gross domestic investment                     10.7     11.7        7.6       7.6             93   94   95   96   97   98
Imoorts of ooods and services                 19.2     12.5       12.7       1.5                    Exports    .    Imports
Gross national nrodritt                       100      10n0        8.        74
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country fin bold) comoared with its income-aroun averace. If data are missinm. the diamond will
he incomnnnte
-81 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflatlon %
(96 change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                                        7.3        2.8      -0.8     20
Implicit GDP deflator                          1.6     5.1        1.2      -1.3     10     
Government finance                                                                   0v   l        l 
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                         93   94   35   9S   97   93
Current revenue                                       21.5       12.0      12.8    -10
Current budget balance                                 4.2        0.6      -2.2                   GDP deflator    c  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                -2.1      -1.5      -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ,,  39,437   182,792   183,757      200,COO
Food                                                4,781    11,075    10,619
Fuel                                                4,544     6,987     5,181     150.000
Manufactures                                       26,206   158,838   163,157
Total imports (cif)                                 43,216   142,370   140.168      100,000.00_. 
Food                                                3,055     6,308     6,463     s5ooo_       _
Fuel and energy                                      539    10,306      6,773
Capital goods                                      21,110    57,930    61,915                                         _
92  93  94  99  99  97   9
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                   .       75         95       89
Imoort Drice index (1995=1001                           75         92       89                  * Exports     wImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               99        104       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USs millions)                               1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio I(%)
Exports of goods and services               8,550   39,120   207,251   207,589      4.
Imports of goods and services               8,148   38,880   166,754   165,900
Resource balance                              402      240    40,497    41,689      2
Net income                                     82     -215   -11,097   -13,428
Net current transfers                         -70      224      5,144     4,278         %   f-979 9
Current account balance                       414      249    34,544    32,540    -2  9
Financing items (net)                        -320    4,534      1,313   -26,114
Changes in net reserves                       -94   -4,783   -35,857    -6,426      _
Memo:
Reserves includino oold fUSS millions)          ..  22.500   147.000
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)               1.9     4.5        8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
fUSS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                35,340   146,697   156,105
IBRD                                               1,427      8,239    9,610                         A 9,6
IDA                                                1,330      7,830    8,693             G: 29,473          B 86s93
Total debt service                                   3,852     18,445    13,009                                   :3,946
lBRD                                                 208       858       940
IDA                                                   12        81        97                                    E 21,862
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 E 21 28,2
Official grants                              ..      209       228
Official creditors                                   626      4,315     2,282
Private creditors                                  5,462      8,134      916
Foreign direct investment                          2,314    44,236    45,000
Portfolio equity                                       0      8,457     1,153               F: 82,521
World Bank program
Commitments                                        1,306      2,425     2,636     A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                        702      2,275     2,061     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         ,,       97       377       434      c - IMF                      G- Short-term
Net flows                                            605      1,898     1,627
Interest payments                                    124       562       602
Net transfers                                        482      1,335     1,024
Development Economics                                                                                                  912/99
- 82 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Environment Assessment and Mitigation Measures
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
A. Background
1.    The Center for Environmental Assessment of the Chinese Research Academy of
Environmental Sciences has carried out the Environmental Assessment (EA) of the proposed
Hebei Urban Environmental Project (HUEP). The draft EA documents were submitted to the
Bank Group in October 1998 and reviewed by the Bank Group during preparation. The final EA
Report and Executive Summary (ES) were submitted to the Bank Group in January 2000 and
were reviewed and found to be satisfactory. During the EA work, the local people were
consulted, and their opinions have been reflected in the project design and environmental
mitigation measures, as appropriate.
2.    The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as well as the Bank
Group's policy. Major laws and regulations applied to the EA are as follows: (a) Environmental
Protection Law of the People's Republic of China; (b) Atmospheric Pollution Control Law; (c)
Environmental Noise Control Law; (d) Water Pollution Control Law; (e) Cultural Heritage
Protection Law; (f) Notice of Strengthening the EA Management Work of Construction Projects
Financed by International Financial Organizations; and (g) Technical Guidelines for
Environmental Impact Assessment.
B. Brief Project Description
3.    The Hebei Urban Environment Project includes the following for which EAs have been
completed:
(a) Shijiazhuang City - Wastewater treatment
(b) Tangshan City:   - Water supply and wastewater treatment
(c) Handan City     - Water supply and wastewater treatment
C. Baseline Environmental Description
4.    Natural Environment. Hebei Province is located in the northeast of China, covering an
area of 188,000 kmi' and has a population of approximately 61 million. The province is bounded
by Shanxi Province to the west, Inner Mongolia to the north, Henan and Shandong Provinces to
the south, Tianjin and the Bohai Sea to the east and Liaoning Province to the north east. Hebei
effectively surrounds the adrninistrative areas of Beijing and Tianjin, and are therefore
economically and socially interdependent.
- 83 -



5.    The province has a semi-arid continental climate, characterised by low annual rainfall, cold
winters and warm summers. The average annual temperature is approximately 9'C, with mean
monthly temperatures ranging from -4C in January to 27C in July. Annual rainfall is normally in
the range 350 - 815 mm, with the wettest months being July to September.
6.    Socio-economic Situation. The economic and social characteristics of Hebei Province
vary greatly as a function of location within the province. The average per capita GDP in 1997
was approximately RMB 6480, showing an increase of 39 percent since 1995. This figure is less
than half those of the adjacent Beijing and Tianjin administrative areas. The province is divided
into 11 municipalities and those adjacent to Beijing or Tianjin, notably Tangshan, tend to be
significantly wealthier than the provincial average, with the more sparsely populated northern
municipalities being correspondingly poorer.
7.    Shijiazhuang is both the provincial capital and the largest city in the province, with an
urban population of about 1.5 million out of an overall total for the municipality of some 8.6
million. The city is a major industrial center with large textiles, chemicals and pharmaceuticals
plants. Tangshan lies to the east of Beijing and north of Tianjin and has a total population of 6.9
million of which 1.2 million are urban. The city is also a significant industrial center and is
relatively wealthy, with a per capita GDP of RMB 11 625, some 20 percent greater than that of
Shijiazhuang. Handan is the smallest of the three project cities, with an urban population of about
0.8 million, and is also a major industrial center based on coal, steel, iron and steel, chemicals and
textiles. Its per capita GDP is only about half that of Tangshan.
8.    Water Resources. Hebei lies within the basin of the Hai River and is severely deficient in
water resources. The rivers, reservoirs and groundwater resources have difficulty in meeting
growing demands from agriculture and for domestic and industrial consumption. Groundwater
levels are falling as demands exceed sustainable replenishment rates, and water frequently has to
be extracted from polluted rivers or piped from distant water sources. Failure to improve the
efficiency of water use will require more costly water transmission from even more distant
sources. Shijiazhuang in particular is one of China's most water resource-deficient cities.
9.    The major water resource for Tangshan is the Douhe Reservoir on the Douhe river about
22 km from the city. The reservoir is filled mainly by water transfers from the Panjiakou and
Daheiting multi-purpose reservoirs. Water quality in the reservoir is good, generally meeting the
Class II water quality standard, but is showing signs of eutrophication. Supplies to Handan are
from groundwater; the multi-purpose Yuecheng reservoir on the Zhang river at the Hebei/Henan
border; the Dongwushi reservoir on the Fuyang river upstream of Handan; and from direct
abstractions from the Fuyang, which flows through the Handan urban area.
10.   Wastewater Treatment and Water Quality. Economic and industrial growth in Hebei
has resulted in degradation of the limited water resources. The generally low assimilative capacity
of watercourses in Hebei, coupled with inadequate wastewater treatment, has resulted in a severe
decline in surface water quality.
- 84 -



11.   The two principal watercourses in the urban area of Shijiazhuang are the Futuo and Xiao
rivers. The Xiao river flows eastwards to meet the Fuyang river downstream of Handan and
receives discharges of municipal and industrial wastewater from the cities and counties through
which it flows. The most significant discharges are those from Shijiazhuang, amounting to
approximately 750 000 m3/day. Part of the wastewater from Shijiazhuang is treated to secondary
standard but the majority receives no treatment. The Xiao river has become a de facto
wastewater discharge channel, and the water quality is considerably worse than even the least
stringent Class V standard.
12.   The sewerage system in Tangshan is divided into two parts, serving the eastem and
western areas of the city respectively. Wastewater from the eastern part of the city and suburbs is
discharged to the Douhe, part after treatment and the remainder to be treated at a second
wastewater treatment plant currently under construction. Wastewater from the western drainage
system discharges to the Qinglonghe stream, which is seasonal with no base flow. Only about
one-third of the wastewater discharged to the stream is currently treated, and the water quality is
therefore very poor, considerably worse than Class V.
13.   The Handan sewerage system is also divided into two separate parts. One system is
served by the existing East wastewater treatment plant, of capacity 100 000 m3/day (currently
operating at below capacity because of sludge treatment capacity limitations), and treated
wastewater discharges to the Fuyang. The presently untreated wastewater from the other
sewerage system discharges to the Shuyuan river, a tributary of the Fuyang. Water quality in all
rivers and streams in the urban area is very poor, significantly worse than Class V, reflecting the
very limited dilution.
14.   The balance of the environmental impact of the project is substantially positive, and the
benefits greatly outweigh the negative impacts.
15.   Environmental Benefits. The provision of additional wastewater treatment plants for the
project cities will result in substantial water quality benefits for the receiving watercourses. The
pollution loads of the wastewater discharges (as measured by BOD) will typically be reduced by
80 - 90%. In the case of Shijiazhuang the Xiao river will remain of poor quality, but the
nitrification of anmmonia in the wastewater will improve the dissolved oxygen balance of the river
and thereby its assimilative capacity for the residual pollution.
16.   A similar situation arises in the case of Handan, where dilution in the Fuyang is also very
limited. Wastewater treatment for Handan will improve water quality in the Fuyang, which is used
in agriculture. In dry weather the only flow in the Qinglonghe stream in Tangshan will be the
treated wastewater from the proposed wastewater treatment plant and an existing adjacent
facility. Thus, although the water quality in the stream will still be worse than Class V, it will
have improved very substantially and will be adequate to support limited downstream agricultural
uses.
- 85 -



17.   The water supply projects for Tangshan and Handan will provide high quality water to
augment existing supplies to the cities and thereby improve that quality of water in supply. In the
case of Tangshan the project will assist in reducing the use of groundwater to a sustainable level
in terms of aquifer recharge rates. All water supplies to the cities can be provided within the
existing water allocation framework for the resources concerned.
18.   Environmental Impacts and Mitigation.   Although the balance of the project is
substantially positive in environmental terms, some negative impacts were identified during the
EA process for all components, and these require mitigation. The principal impacts identified and
their respective mitigation measures are described below.
19.   Construction Spoil.  Substantial quantities of spoil will be generated as a result of
excavation for pipeline installation and for the construction of water and wastewater treatment
plants. As much of the material as possible will be re-used on site, and spoil disposal plans have
been prepared for each project component where excess spoil will be generated. It is expected
that all spoil will be beneficially used in other local construction activities and therefore spoil
disposal will not be problematic.
20.   Other Construction Impacts.  Other impacts of construction include noise from
construction machinery, generation of dust and disruption of local traffic and urban life in general.
These will be minimised by appropriate restrictions on working hours and operational procedures
of the contractors concerned. Where pipeline routes cross land used for agriculture the topsoil
will be stored separately and replaced.
21.   Sludge Disposal.  Both water and wastewater treatment plants will generate sludge
requiring disposal. In the case of the water treatment plants the sludge will be dewatered and the
resulting sludge cake disposed of by landfill. Sludge from the wastewater treatment plants will be
disposed of as far as possible by use in agriculture as a soil conditioner. Quantities of sludge in
excess of requirements in agriculture will be disposed of by landfill at existing municipal facilities.
22.   The wastewater treatment plant proposed for Shijiazhuang will include anaerobic digestion
of sludge to reduce volumes of sludge for disposal and to produce a sludge that is stable and
readily acceptable to the agricultural community. The methane generated by the anaerobic
digestion process will be used to generate electricity and thereby reduce the electricity demand for
wastewater treatment.
23.   Part of the dewatered sludge from the proposed Tangshan wastewater treatment plant will
be composted and mixed with fertiliser to produce a more easily manageable and higher value
product. The process used will be similar to that in use at another wastewater treatment plant in
Tangshan. The Handan wastewater treatment plant process is based on an activated sludge
system with a long aeration period that produces a stable sludge readily suitable for use in
agriculture.
24.   Other Operational Impacts. The other significant potential impacts of the operation of
water and wastewater treatment plants are noise and, in the case of wastewater treatment plants,
- 86 -



odor. These will be minimised by the siting of the plants and by the provision of buffer zones and
landscaping. Where there are sensitive noise receptors close to the facilities, the noise emissions
will be minimised by appropriate acoustic insulation of machinery.
D. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
25.    The following approaches were adopted for public consultation: (a) meetings with city
Project Management Offices (PMO), utility companies, city EPBs, and other affected city
departments; and (b) surveys to gauge the public perception of the positive and negative impacts
of each of the proposed schemes. The public is perceived to be dissatisfied with existing ambient
surface water quality. They also point out that govenment should improve its enforcement
capabilities to urgently ameliorate the environmental quality. In all cities, the public has high
expectations from the proposed water supply and wastewater disposal schemes. The public
considers that proper environmental management, training of staff, and establishment of a
scientific monitoring system will ensure social, economic, and environmental benefits from the
project.
26.    The Environmental Assessment and Executive Summary were made public at the Bank
Group's Public Information Center in Washington, DC on February 4, 2000.
27.   Details of consultations and disclosures during EA and RAP preparation are provided
below for each project city:
Shijiazhuang
a. Public Consultation
Substance     By Whom & with            When             Where        Bank's Requirement
Whom
Interview during field - Sociologists and  September 15,    - Luodi Village that  OD 4.30 & OP 4.01
social economic   resettlement specialists 1998        will be impacted by
survey             of Hehai University,                proposed WWTP
PMO                                 - Shops in the city
- PAPs                              which may be
impacted by sewer
construction
RAP outline       -Hehai University,   October 16, 1998  Conference center in
consultation       PMO                                 the project area
- PAPs
Draft EA TOR       - EA team, PMO      December 20,    Conference center    OP 4.01: consultation
consultation       - representatives of    1997        located in the project during TOR stage
PAPs, deputies of local             area                (their work done
people congress                                         before OP
._________________                         requirement)
- 87 -



EA TOR consultation - EA team, PMO       September 20,    Conference center    OP 4.0: consultation
- Representatives of    1998          located in the project during TOR stage
PAPs, deputies of local               area                (their work done
people congress                                           before OP
requirement)
Distribution of     - Hehai University,    November 15,    - Luodi Village
questionnaires and    Shijiazhuang       1999             - Meeting with shop
key EA & RAP        wastewater company                    owners at SDC
messages in bulletin  (SWWC), PMO, EA
point format in the   team
first public meetings  - PAPs
Distribution of project -SWWC, PMO, EA   December 30,           -do-          OP 4.01: consultation
inforrnation and draft team              1999                                 prior to the
EA & RAP in the     -PAPs                                                     finalization of the
second public                                                                 draft report
meetings
Final EA & RAP      -SWWC, PMO           March 19, 2000         -do-          -
b. Information Disclosure
Document            Date of Disclosure           Location           Bank's Requirement
Copies of EA TOR & RAP September 20, 1998        Conference center located  OP 4.01; OD 4.30; BP
outline                 October 16, 1998         in the project area     17.50
Questionnaires and key EA November 15, 1999      Luodi Village and project
& RAP messages                                   areas in the city
Draft EA & RAP reports   December 30, 1999               -do-
Final EA & RAP report   March 19, 2000                   -do-
"Notice for Availability of March 12, 2000       Local newspaper
EA & RAP reports at PMO                          "Shijiazhuang Daily"
& SwwC"
Final EA & RAP reports  since March 2000         At PMO, SWWC
Resettlement information  since April 15, 2000   To PAPs
booklet                  _                       __                      I
Note: From May 25 to 28, 2000, the "Notice for Availability of EA & RAP Report" is being
broadcasted by Shijiazhuang TV station.
Tangshan
a. Public Consultation
Substance     By Whom & with             When              Where               Bank's
Whom                                                         Requirements
Interview during field - Sociologists and  September 16,    Villages (Shuangmiao OD 4.30, OP 4.01
social economic    Resettlement          1998             & Qianquan Villages
survey              Specialists of Hehai                  for WS and
University, PMO;                      Xiejiazhuang Village
- PAPs                                for WW), units and
shops in the proposed
.___ ____ ____ ___   ___ ____ ____ ___ __  _ ____ ____ __ I project  areas
- 88 -



RAP outline         - Hehai University,    October 17, 1998  Tangshan Hotel
consultation meeting  PMO
-Representatives of
PAPs, deputies of local
people congress             _____
Draft EA TOR        - EA team, PMO       December 22,    Local meeting center OP 4.0: consultation
consultation        - Representatives of    1997                               during TOR stage
PAPs, deputies of local                                    (their work done
people congress                                            before OP
requirement)
EA TOR consultation -EA team, PMO        September 22,    Local meeting center OP 4.0: consultation
- Representatives of   1998                                during TOR stage
PAPs, deputies of local                                    (their work done
people congress                                            before OP
requirement)
Distribution of     - Hehai University,    November 16,          -do-
questionnaires and    Tangshan Water      1999
key EA & RAP        Supply Company
messages in bulletin  (TWSC), Tangshan
point format in the    Wastewater Company
first public meetings  (TDWWC), EA team
- PAPs
Distribution of project - TWSC, TWWC,    December 3, 1999        -do-          OP 4.01: consultation
information and draft PMO, EA team                                             prior to the
EA & RAP in the    -Representatives of                                         finalization of the
second public       PAPs                                                       draft report
meetings
Before finalization of - TWSC, TWWC,     March 10, 2000   PMO office
EA & RAP            PMO
-Representatives of
PAPs
b. Information Disclosure
Document             Date of Disclosure           Location           Bank's Requirements
Copies of EA TOR & RAP  September 22, 1998       Conference center located  OP 4.01; OD 4.30; BP
outline                 October 17, 1998         in the project area       17.50
Questionnaires and key EA November 16, 1999      Project impacted villages,
& RAP messages                                   units and shops
Draft EA & RAP reports   December 31, 1999       Displayed for reading &
reference in the public
meetings at above locations
Final EA & RAP reports   March 10, 2000          Displayed for reading &
reference in meeting at
PMO office
"Notice for Availability of March 16-18, 2000 for  Local newspaper
EA & RAP reports" at    three days               "Tangshan Labor Daily"
PMO, TWSC & TWWC
Final EA & RAP reports  since March 2000         At PMO, TWSC,. TWWC
Resettlement information   since April 15, 2000  To PAPs
booklet
- 89 -



Handan
a. Public Consultation
Substance     By Whom & with            When              Where         Bank's
Whom                                                     Requirements
Interview during field - Hehai University,    September 17,   Project impacted  OD 4.30, OP 4.01
social economic    PMO                   1998            villages, units and
survey             - PAPs                                shops
RAP outline        - Hehai University,    October 20, 1998  Local meeting center
consultation       PMO
- representatives of
PAPs & local people
congress
Draft EA TOR       - EA team, PMO       December 25,    Local meeting center  OP 4.0: consultation
consultation       - Representatives of    1997                              during TOR stage
PAPs, deputies of local                                  (their work done
people congress                                          before OP
requirement)
EA TOR consultation -EA team, PMO        September 24,   Local meeting center OP 4.0: consultation
- representatives of    1998                             during TOR stage
PAPa, deputies of local                                  (their work done
people congress                                          before OP
requirement)
Distribution of    - Hehai University, EA  November 15,          -do-
questionnaires and   team, Handan Water   1999
key EA & RAP        Supply Company
messages in bulletin  (HWSC), Handan
point format in the    Wastewater Company
first public meetings  (HWWC), PMO
- PAPs
Distribution of project - Hehai University, EA  December 28,    -do-         OP 4.01: consultation
information and draft team, PMO, HWSC,   1999                                prior to the
EA & RAP in the    HWWC                                                      finalization of the
second public      - PAPs                                                    draft report
meetings
Final EA & RAP     - PMO, HWSC,         March 10, 2000   PMO office
HWWC
- PAPs                                 .
b. Information Disclosure
Document            Date of Disclosure           Location          Bank's Requirements
Copies of EA TOR & RAP September 24, 1998       Conference center located  OP 4.01; OD 4.30; BP
outline                 October 20, 1998        in the project area      17.50
Questionnaires and key EA November 15, 1999     Project impacted village,
& RAP messages                                  units and shops_
Draft EA & RAP reports   December 28, 1999      Displayed for reading &
reference in the public
meetings at above locations
- 90 -



Final EA & RAP reports   March 10, 2000           Displayed for reading &
reference in meeting at
PMO office
"Notice for Availability of  April 6, 2000        Local newspaper "Handan
EA & RAP reports" at                              Daily"
PMO, RWSC & HWWC   April 6-8, 2000                Broadcasted for three days
in Handan TV Station
Final EA & RAP reports  since April 2000          At PMO, HWSC, HWWC
Resettlement information   since April 2000       To PAPs
booklet
- 91 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Resettlement
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
1.    The Hebei Urban Environment Project (SUEP) consists of five components in water
supply and sewage treatment in three cities of Hebei Province (HP). Land acquisition is necessary
as well as the relocation and economic rehabilitation of people affected by the project. Some 90
hectares (ha) of land would need to be acquired, and 130 households (462 persons) would be
affected by the project, shown by component below:
Project Component       Land    Persons       Persons     Total Cost
(ha)    Affected    Resettled     Y million
Shijiazhuang
Wastewater Treatment Plant   33.3      499                        49.5
Network                         -      375
Tangshan
Raw Water Conveyance         26.8     1709           225          32.9
Water Treatment Plant           -       74            74
Wastewater Treatmnent Plant  11.7     1428              -         24.0
Handan
Raw Water Conveyance            -     2361            145         16.4
Water Treatment Plant           -         -
Wastewater Treatment Plant   16.9      222             18         26.3
Total    88.7      6668           462         149.1
2.    Compensation for all affected structures would be paid at the replacement cost. Affected
houses and enterprises would be provided with alternative plots of land for construction of
structures. All affected labor would be re-employed in the same enterprises after reconstruction
and would be paid a subsistence allowance or the duration of temporary unemployment.
Compensation for land acquisition would be paid to the collectives, which would be responsible
for redistributing land among affected families. Temporary land acquisition would be compensated
at rates equivalent to the productive value of affected land. An allowance would be paid to the
affected people for moving to resettlement sites, and for facilitation the transition to new houses
and jobs.
- 92 -



3.    The lead group on land acquisition and resettlement in each project city would coordinate
the resettlement program. Each city would establish its own land acquisition and resettlement
offices. Internal monitoring and evaluation would be done by the municipal project offices.
Separate monitoring institutions would carry out independent monitoring and evaluation. The
total cost of the land acquisition and resettlement program, including physical and price
contingencies, is Y149.1 million (about $17.8 million). A detailed implementation schedule for
the resettlement program has been drawn up. The specific compensation and relocation-related
activities, which need to be completed before construction can commence on a given component,
have been clearly listed in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).  The entire process of
resettlement planning has been participatory. Census and socioeconomic surveys were conducted
with the full participation of affected persons. The municipal governments were fully involved in
the process of RAP preparation. Implementation would involve municipal-level institutions and
the representatives of the affected peoples. In order to ensure that each affected household is fully
informed about the resettlement program, the municipal project offices would distribute
resettlement information booklets. Details of the public consultation and disclosure process are
presented in the tables at the end of Annex 11.
- 93 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Institutional Strengthening
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
1.     Individual action plans have been prepared for each company. A sample Institutional
Action Plan (IAP) is included here. One of the first steps of the institutional part of the technical
assistance under the project will be to update and review the IAPs.
2.     All the Companies need to continue their development to become enterprise companies
which have genuine management autonomy, exercised within a framework of government
regulation based on strategic targets. Key steps are likely to involve:
*  self- determination of Human Resources Development (HRD) policy;
*  defining target service standards and other key performance targets;
*  building a business plan based on these standards and targets;
*  reviewing and defining the future roles of government and the enterprises;
*  increased financial autonomy and delegation;
=  providing Municipal Governments with an adequate capacity to effectively regulate the
companies based on monitoring performance at a strategic level. This will include addressing
information flows and staff skills;
_  development and implementation of a performance-based contract between municipal
governments and the enterprises; and
  consideration of further reforms, which might include water supply/wastewater company
amalgamation or some forms of privatization.
3.   There are also several common themes in the management challenges faced by the
companies.
3  immediate consolidation of new responsibilities and detailed review of organizational
structure;
*  changing organization structure;
*  developing modem business planning processes linked to strategic objectives and targets;
*  introducing new HRD systems and policies appropriate to modem utility enterprises and that
respond to the changes in the Chinese employment market;
*  improving information management and MIS that are linked to business needs and strategy.
Using information to improve the quality of decision-making throughout all levels of
management. This particularly applies to financial information;
*  managing and taking maximum advantage of technological innovation as a creative force and
catalyst for improved performance; and
*  identifying and responding to customer needs and expectations.
- 94 -



HWWC Institutional and Management Development Action Plan
Ref     Description of Action Required                     Action     Start    Finish
by        by        by
1.0     Institutional Developments
1.1     Initial integration of predecessor units           HWWC    i/h         12/99
1.2     HWWC to assume control over income collections and    HFB/    6/99     10/99
to retain income                                  HWWC
1.3     Full definition of respective HMG and HWWC         HMG/       i/h      12/00
responsibilities                                  HWWC
1.4     Review of Financial Delegation in accordance with 1.4    HMG  1/01     6/01
1.5     Agreement on HWWC Service levels and strategic     HMG/       1/01     6/01
targets                                           HWWC
1.6     Medium term tariff agreement and institutionalization    HMG  7/01     12/02
of price setting
1.7     Development of performance contract between        HMG/       7/01     12/02
HWWC/HMG                                          HWWC
1.8     HWWC to operate under formal performance contract    HMG      1/03     o/g
with Government
I.9     Separation of regulation and supervisory           HMG        01/00    12/02
responsibilities within HMG
1.10    Strategy for Private Sector Involvement in HWWC or    HMG/
further institutional reform                      HWWC
M       Managerial Improvements
M. I    Review and revise management organization          HWWC    06/00    06/01
M.2    Identify strategic performance measures             HWWC    06/00    12/00
M.3     Development of Business Plan                       HWWC    06/00    12/00
M.4     Define management information system (MIS) needs   HWWC    06/00    12/00
and strategy
- 95 -



Ref     Description of Action Required                     Action     Start    Finish
by         by       by
O        Operations Management
0.1     Review and revise procedures for control of industrial    HWWC    06/00    12/00
charges
0.2     Undertake Health & Safety audit                    HWWC    09/00    12/00
0.3     Review and develop improvement strategy for asset  HWWC    01/01    06/01
recording systesm (e.g. GIS)
0.4     Development of sewer network model                 HWWC    07/01    06/03
0.5     Review of sewer inspections and maintenance program    HWWC    07/01    12/01
0.6     Identification of efficiency improvements          HWWC    7/01        12/01
0.7     Review of maintenance plans and procedures         HWWC    7/01        12/01
0.8     Review and revise operational standards            HWWC    1/02        06/02
0.9     Review and revise operational procedures, including  HWWC    07/02    06/023
quality sampling and control
0.10    Review of materials management                     HWWC    07/02    12/02
F       Financial Management
F. I    Identify Computerization needs                     HWWC    06/00    09/00
F.2     Computerized FIS implemented                       HWWC    10/00    06/01
F.3     Review of Income Billing & Collection arrangements  HWWC/   03/00    12/01
(including computerization)                       HWSC
F.4     Implement improved arrangements for billing and    HWWC/   03/00    12/01
income collection                                 HWSC
F.5     Review and improvements to cost allocation system  HWWC    01/01    09/01
F.6     Use of management accounting and planning methods    HWWC    07/01    06/03
F.7      Financial management training                     HWWC    09/00    06/03
- 96 -



Ref     Description of Action Required                      Action     Start    Finish
by         by       by
H       Human Resources Developments
H. I    Building of corporate identity                      HWWC    01/00    10/00
H.2     Develop Manpower plan and review HRD systems        HWWC    06/00    12/00
needs
H.3      Strategy for Manpower adjustments                  HWWC    01/01    03/01
H.4      Review and revise Training Plan and methods used for   HWWC    01/01    06/01
assessing needs
H.5     Review and revised HRD policies and rewards         HWWC    06/01    12/01
mechanisms
H.6     Review of Performance appraisal system              HWWC    01/02    06/02
H.7     Review of Job Definition recording                  HWWC    01/02    06/02
S       Systems and Information Technology
S.1     Appoint IT Specialist(s)                            HWWC    01/00    03/00
S.2     Define role and authority of IT Dept.               HWWC    04/00    07/00
S.3     Develop IT strategy                                 HWWC    04/00    06/01
S.4     Develop IT systems appraisal and implementation     HWWC    07/01    06/02
|     | ~procedures                                                            .
E       Customer and Expernal Relations
E. 1     Review and revise Customer education programs      HWWC    01/01    12/02
E.2     Review bill formats and payment options             HWWC/   01/00    12/01
HWSC
E.3      Publish service standards and performance information    HWWC    08/01    o/g
E.4     Review and revise complaints handling               HWWC    09/01    12/01
E.5     Instigate Customer feedback surveys                 HWWC/   08/01    o/g
HMG
In date columns "i/h" refers to action already "in hand" (i.e. in progress) and "o/g" refers to an ongoing action that
will continue indefinitely.
- 97 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Financial Management System
CHINA: HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Preamble
1.    The development objective of the proposed Hebei Urban Environment Project (HUEP) is
to provide a safe environmental setting to sustain the long-term economic growth of urban areas
in Hebei Province (HP). The project would support Hebei Province in implementing a long-term
urban environmental services improvement program to recover from past environmental
degradation of its water and land resources, to provide an adequate supply of safe water to its
growing urban population and economy, and to ensure sustainability of service delivery through
institutional and financial reform with the service utilities.
2.    The main components of the Project include:
-  Water Supply. Tangshan: Water Treatment Plant, capacity 150,000 m3/day, including intake
pumping station, 19 km raw water transmission main and some 10 km distribution trunk
mains; and Handan: Water treatment plant, capacity 100,000 m /day, 57 km raw water
tra-nsmission main and some 50 km of water distribution network.
Wastewater. Shiiiazhuang: Wastewater treatment plant, capacity 500,000 m3/day, including
some 40 km of trunk sewer rehabilitation and expansion; Tangshan: Wastewater treatment
plant at Xijiao, capacity 120,000 m`/day and associated sewer infrastructure with total length
of 13.5 km; Handan: Wastewater treatment plant, capacity 100,000 m3/day with 30 km of
trunk sewer infrastructure and expansion of sludge treatment facilities at the existing East
wastewater treatment plant.
* Industrial Pollution Control. Action plan in prioritized industrial sectors and enterprises for
enhanced pollution control.
*  Technical Assistance.  Institutional strengthening, engineering design and construction
management, operations enhancement, and environmental monitoring.
Total estimated Project cost is USD 293 million, including IBRD of USD 150 million.
A. Background
3.    This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of Hebei Urban
Environment Project (the "Project") as conducted by Chau-Ching (Tony) Shen, Financial
Management Specialist, EACCF, to determine whether the Project has in place an adequate
financial management system as required by Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review was performed in
- 98 -



accordance with the following:
* The Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank
Financed Projects (Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region,
December 1997);
* Review of Financial Management System (Annex II, LACI Handbook); and
* Project Financial Management Manual (Loan Department, The World Bank).
4.    The review  consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and
appropriate to the Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. As a
result, the task team has discussed and reviewed with the following entities in respect of plans,
procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound financial management system, including
staff/training, accounting, internal controls, reporting requirements, auditing and budgeting:
* Hebei Urban Environment World Bank Loan Project Management Office
* Tangshan Water Supply Company
* Tangshan Wastewater Company
* Tangshan Municipal Finance Bureau
* Handan Water Supply Company
* Handan Wastewater Company
* Handan Municipal Finance Bureau
 Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company
X Shijiazhuang Municipal Finance Bureau
B. Organization of Project Financial Management
Structure of Project Management
5.    The Project covers the following cities and implementing agencies:
* Shijiazhuang City
- Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company
* Tangshan City
-Tangshan Water Supply Company
-Tangshan Wastewater Company
* Handan City
-Handan Water Supply Company
-Handan Wastewater Management Company
6.   Hebei Urban Environment World Bank Loan Project Management Office (HPMO) will
assume overall responsibility of implementing and monitoring the Project while the
aforementioned municipal project management offices (MPMOs) will monitor their respective
project components on behalf of the municipal governments. The water supply and wastewater
99 -



companies are responsible for direct implementation and fund management of respective
subprojects. The task team noted that staff of HPMO are associated with or seconded from
Hebei Provincial Finance Bureau and consequently, have had prior experience with Bank-
financed projects. Several of the project entities have implemented projects funded by bilateral
and multilateral organizations.
Loan Disbursement Arrangements
7.   The Project will be disbursed based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not
be using PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and
MOF.
8.   The Special Account will be managed by and maintained at Hebei Provincial Finance
Bureau (HPFB). Fund disbursements will flow from the Bank to HPFB, respective municipal
finance bureaus, implementing agencies (lAs) and contractors/suppliers through loan and
on-lending arrangements.  As indicated above, HPMO  has had prior experience with
Bank-financed projects and, therefore, has accumulated adequate experience with the Bank's
requirement and procedures in preparation and processing of withdrawal applications and
disbursing funds.
9.   However, as the aforementioned MPMOs and lAs are new to the Bank's projects, it will
be important for MPMOs and lAs to work closely with HPMO and BPFB in setting up policies
and procedures for the Project to ensure efficient and accurate fund management and timely
disbursement. Per review of Project Financial Management Manual (discussed in detail in
section 3) prepared by HPMO, the task team noted that detailed policies and procedures have
been provided for the Project to ensure efficient and accurate fund management and timely
withdrawal applications. In addition, the Bank will provide, as and when needed, training and
assistance in the preparation of withdrawal applications.
10.  HPMO will be in charge of verifying the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted and
progress reported by respective MPMOs and lAs. The application for reimbursements prepared
by PMO will be further reviewed and approved by HPFB before submitting by HPFB to the
Bank.
C. Staff and Training
11.  As the Project is part of an existing corporation in the form of improvement/construction
or operation extension, the role of project financiaVaccounting management will be assumed by
the financial/management staff of each respective corporation. The task team leamed from
discussion and reviews of designated accountants for the Project that these accountants have had
accounting/financial experience of a minimum of 5 years and are comfortable with the work they
are expected to perform.
12.  However, the task team still emphasized to the Project that adequate number of qualified
financial/accounting staff should be in place before Project commencement.  The chief
- 100 -



accountants for the Project should have adequate experience and credentials in financial and
accounting management. In addition, he/she should be able to maintain books of accounts,
exercise adequate internal controls, safeguard the Project's assets, monitor progress of the
Project and produce the financial and monitoring reports required by the Bank and MOF on a
timely basis.
13.  As MPMOs and LAs do not have prior experience with Bank projects, well designed and
focused training should be provided as and when needed (by PMO and HPFB) for them to
ensure a skill level commensurate with job responsibilities. The Bank plans to re-address in
detail some of the major aspects of project financial management and reporting requirements
during the Project's launch workshop.
14. In addition, well-defined roles, job descriptions and operation procedures should be
documented and made easily accessible to all Project staff to guide in accounting practices and
financial information preparation and reporting. The task team has received a draft Project
Financial Management Manual (the "Manual") prepared by PMO for the Project. Per review of
the Manual, the task team noted that procedures and guidelines have been provided for major
areas of operation of the Project and included the following:
*  General guidelines for project financial management and staffing requirements
*  Project accounting and reporting requirements
3  Cash management
*  Asset management
*  Withdrawal applications and disbursements procedures
*  Procurement management
15.  The final version of the Manual will be available for Project staff before commencement.
It is the intention of the Project to abide by the procedures and guidelines as described in the
Manual until its successful completion.
D. Financial and Accounting System
16.  The Project will use "Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management
of World Bank Financed Projects" or Circular No. 127, and "Accounting Regulations for World
Bank Financed Projects" or Circular No. 13, as the bases for bookkeeping and preparation of
financial statements and management reports. The Circular Nos. 127 and 13 were issued in 1993
and January 2000 by MOF (Circular No. 127 was further revised in 1997) and are applicable to
all Bank projects in China. The Regulations also provide detailed accounting instructions that
would therefore affect project accounting and reporting requirements.
17.  Accrual accounting and double-entry basis will be adopted for the Project. Ledgers,
journal vouchers and original-supporting documents will be maintained by respective LAs.
Respective MPMOs will monitor the accounts and financial statements of subprojects prepared
by lAs, while HPMO will be responsible for Project consolidated accounts, based on financial
statements submitted by respective lAs and reviewed by MPMOS.
- 101 -



E. Internal Controls
18.  A well designed internal control system (both administrative and accounting) should be in
place before conmuencement of the Project. Per review of the Manual mentioned above, the task
team noted that sufficient control procedures have been built into the system for all major areas
of concern and have the following features:
* A system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project reporting
adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets, schedules and
technical performance;
* Delegation and segregation of duties; and
* Timely and accurate financial reporting.
F. Reporting Requirements
19.  The fornat and content of the following reports have been discussed and agreed with the
Project entities. These reports are required to be submitted on a bi-annual basis to the Bank
within three months (i. e. before October 1 and April 1) after the end of each reporting period:
Financial statements (bi-annual basis)
Project level
* Project balance sheet
3 Statement of sources and uses of fund by project activity
i Statement of implementation of loan agreement
i Statement of special account
The above project financial statements represent the standard project financial reporting package
agreed to between the Bank and MOF and will apply to all FY00 projects.
Entity level
* Balance Sheet
* Income Statement
* Cash flow statement
Project monitoring report (quarterly basis)
* Statement of project progress
Procurement management reports (quarterly basis as part of the quarterly progress reports)
* Contract expenditure report - goods & works, consultants
- 102 -



* Procurement management reports - ICB & NCB
(NOTE: Procurement reports have t. be presented and cleared by procurement specialist with
the Borrower.)
G. Auditing Requirements
20.  The Bank requires the Project to have its financial statements audited in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Project
will be audited in accordance with Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of
China (1997 edition). Hebei Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as suitable auditors for
the Project. Audit report on annual financial statements of the Project and entities are due to the
Bank within six months after the end of each reporting year, with separate opinion on statement
of expenses and special account.
H. Budgeting
21.  Annual budget will be prepared by respective IAs/MPMOs and submitted to HPMO for
further consolidation, review and approval. Comparison of budget versus actual will be
performed on a semi-annual basis by HPMO and any subsequent major changes to the original
plan has to be reviewed, evaluated and approved by the Bank.
I. Proposed Actions
22.  Training. As noted in Section C above, financial/accounting staff at MPMOs/IAs should
receive training on the following at Project Launch Workshop and/or before project
implementation:
a. Bank procedures and requirements on the withdrawal of Bank funds;
b. Format and content of standard set of project fmancial statements and timing of
submission;
c. Project Financial Management System Manual; and
d. Project/entity audit requirement.
J. Conclusion
23.  Based on above analysis, the task team has determined that the Project will satisfy the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the task
team's opinion, the Project will have in place an adequate project financial management system
that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
Project in the reporting format agreed with the Project and as required by the Bank.
- 103 -



Attachment
HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Financial Management Action Plan
Borrower         Bank          Target
Description                  Responsibility  Responsibility     Date
A. Project Financial Management System                                      Before project
Manual                                       HPMO/HPFB    FMS, WBOC    commence-
1. PFMSM issue to all relevant staff                                        ment
B. Staffing and Training
1. HPMO, MPMOs and lAs be staffed with      HPMO/MPMO/  FMS, WBOC    Before Board
financial/accounting personnel commensurate with  IA                        approval.
job responsibility.
2. Project Launch Workshop or financial                                     Before project
management seminar completed for all related staff HPMO/MPMO/               commence-
on:                                         IA                              ment
a) Bank procedures and requirements on the
withdrawal of Bank funds;
b) Format and content of standard set of project
financial statements and timing of submission;
c) Project Financial Management System Manual;
and
d) Project/entity audit requirement.
C. Special Account
1. Obtain domestic clearance for opening SA;  HPMO/MPMO/  Disbursement   Before
2. Open corresponding RMB bank account; and    IA            Officer, WBOC  withdrawal of
3. Submit authorized signature to MOF and then to                           initial deposit
the Bank.
MOF          - Ministry of Finance, PRC
HPMO         - Hebei Urban Environment World Bank Loan Project Management Office
MPMO         - Municipal Project Management Office
IA           - Implementing Agency
WBOC         - World Bank Office in China
-104 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30926
CHINA                                                                                           CHINA                                                                                    CHINA
HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJC                                                                   HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJEC                                                                         HEBEI URBAN
TANGSHAN WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM COMPONENT                                                    TANGSHAN WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM COMPONENT                                                         ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
V                                       S                      i   U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~WASTEWAVTER TREVTMN[ EINTS  -    SWAGE PIPEUNES TO BE RUEL UNDER THE PROJECT  AGHNWTRSPL
*     TAE PMP SATIN             --  ROARODS                                                                                - ASNAE  [ED SINGPMIN SEWERS                                    AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT
WATERTREATMENTPIAN  RAILROAD'                CATCHMENT AREA I                                                                                  ~~~~COMPONENTS
TPANDM' ON LINE                RIVERSSCTHETAE                                                                             UO                                           J
*    ~ ~~DGRJ~~~            l~~~s  VE~CATCMENT AREA          RAlOD
____RIVERS                                                          SdAApD,  I,,NV,fl
DAW  ~   'I SAV~A~VAVA'~'A lg .y
"NEi MONGOL
7 5~~~~~~~~v~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
AND                                                                                                                                                  SHANDOAG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAX 
N.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05 S.  WTPSR
NENA9~~~~"""~~~   IC.
KA,RsTAD',    RDR... P g
D55,so    ~ ~ ~ ~~         '~~M9'S-
17                                                RS[ASZ>'~~~~~~~~Y
lw-                                                                       r                                                                                       SHAND~~~~~~h0    lWE  //
51104/ ED ER S~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDRTN
KZKTAI,ViA                                 VRDT






IBRD 30928
CHINA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT
SHIJIAZHUANG WASTEWATER
TREATMENT SYSTEM COMPONENT
-         ~~~NEI MONGOL
%Rp    CE        (LIAONING
:<                                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-
SHANXI ~     SHND
*  PROPOSED WASTEWATER TRIA MEN  PLANT  ! _       .        _       'r     ._-..., /  \L'   _;                                   F,_ .   * t                                  .  .......   kj  RUSSIAN/  4it_;' 
ERXSTINGMAIN SEWERS               ' *   ''-I,           I\: '  1 I                      2                                     1   , -           iKZKSA^         EDERATIONp  f    X \/T     42@
*   EXSTENGWASSTEWATER TXEATMENTPLANT. 1                    |'|[ Ir 4-r.                    .  _ 2 _  :-- __=- _' __ =  =_ *                             _IOU
i  CATCHMENTAREA I s ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                 t      o.._.._\  iqadn W      --                                   f1D MSON,  A
:m ATC E2S   AREA 1                                         \I. .       . '-                          1                      S                     BYrlA,,W?                p    424224214
IVCATCI1MESETAREA2                                   .                                                                                             0,     T     24  '=-ftr l v  l1  fr    *
.., ROADSA                                                                                                                                              .\ <t                      14,521  0,4af v Di.
OPEN ICRANNEES                                                                                                    N041 C1,M 2                                              F' neBonils
_                                                                                                KlLOMETERS   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ Intirntioncl doundunes  r g   etbNPOMTES  .    41141222112p0u4 944  2BsIR~4E
__j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2PE20






IBRD 30929
CHINA                                             HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                          CHINA                                            WUANCTY !                          H           HANDAN
WU AN CIT         HAND                WATER SUPPLY
HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                             HANDAN WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                    HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                            ConveYnce SRaWabEr
HANDAN WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                               HANDAN WASTEWATER TREATMENT
SYSTEM COMPONENT                                                                                                                                                          SYSTEM COMPONENT                                             MFENGFENG ARE                  M                       W
_ NORTH SEWAGE PUMP GST MARECN                                                                                                                             T                 TreTPe m
WATER SEIEPY PIPES TO BE BUILTUt DER THE rROIECT                                                                           TORBE EUILT UDEP THE PROJECT                                                                                                            e                           * .rAcWI
LTI   PROPOSED WATER TREATMENT PLA1NT                                                                                             PROJECT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                       i                           I 'ayeR,                                                      *
ktAWWAILR TRNMIsNIIPIN NETO BE U LTUNDER THE PROJEC 1,_StWAGE PIPEL NES TO BESBUILTWUNDERETHE PROJECT                                                                         ='                                                I                                   - l                           E.nECanvey ne
EX ST NG WA ER SUPPLY P PES                                          ,                                                     EXSTING SEWAGE PUMPING STAT ONES                                                                                                                                                   6 Palr
rM    I <  : T NG WAT[ER TRE ATM E P vT PLANTSI2 'S                                                                               5 t: . bil E XIS TI N G WASTEWAI E R TREATM E NT PLANTS lU  W   R   N  I |   |  -UoRnere
- -   EX STING EAW WATER TRANSM SS ON LINE                   -         -                                                             ST NG SEWER LINES                                      _                                         /                            , A Rowr
ROADS                                                                                                                   -. ROADS _
ER  D  n '~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -~~~~~ 0 IVEP je<' i -- i !~~~~~~~~~~~RALRAD                                                                                                                                                                                 KILOGMETERS
R- AIRD                                                                                                              ,,- UROADS-                                                                                                                                    nRay          I(WEE
~*~RISERS                        ~nee~EyR
1 XlS~~~~~~~~~~I
2u=.S   lD}  .S                                                  V                    }:-                                  -             {          i, t.                  -                         <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
re.eu<//   2r 2WL h //               {                                                             '           1/                                                     !                   | ,                  5'-~~~~I   -,  ' ANX/L  R, D- *AAER" ra5
a-,v. Te...n /. MUFPD.qUna        rbe                                                    5yQddpn   . ............... T   '                                                       2                              3         0     1   2            N hrlcpt I  vf    EnaMnA ; 
C9eN)E,U   2000
a'  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< ;                                                                                                                                                        5)-IANDO  G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IANN
p                                                -P                                                                                                                                                                              BEIII~ V(
1~~  LE>~~~~        i                                                                     jB--                                                                 l,          I/                                       N>sDARE
/1                                                                                                                                                                                             EEL KHSTAE/'-~            '-a.           ~TA      k
SHANXI L~~~~~~~~~~~A,A
;7e~~~~~L~~CAcj  P~~~~~~  1                                       aj~~~~~~~~    SOELREN,              II   U>,              1/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    MONGOLA                      I R         M      A~~~~~~~~Z
7Ree.Rn
RAnO                  f~~~O~~IM
~~aSaI,U.,a-A.,R~~~~~~~~~~~  avNnnnvacnp  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             U                                                                                                                                                  JvNE2505~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$H
N ay,  B  a,.  a.Uaapa.qaAn,IaUaaaARcn,Al1                                            2           UU122Nanlala
1145,,, ,a,,aaaaaadaa,,,a.,,aa,an  I   I   I                                                                                                 I           I          I            ___                     .                      NM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5    1
pa n~n  aa,a'Aa ,a'.,a,IT,  -a ~                                       IOMERERE                                                                                                                  RILOMERERE                              Pa    Bau,dor,P
InIe,BTT,nTI Eaa-,da,ee ~   J 1
Ta,, B ncR Sc a cc, a'



