Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4569 CHA
Project Agreement
(Hebei Urban Environment Project)
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HEBEI PROVINCE
Dated November 1, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4569 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Hebei Province (Hebei).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred 
fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Hebei agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Hebei, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so 
defined in the Loan Agreement) and the preamble to this Agreement have 
Page  2
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Hebei declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall:
(i)
cause Handan to carry out Parts C, D and E of the 
Project and cause Handan to 
carry out Parts A(2), C, D 
and E of the Project through Handan Water Supply 
Company 
and Parts B(2), C, D and E of the Project through Handan Sewage 
Treatment Co., Ltd.;
(ii)
cause Shijiazhuang to carry out Parts C, D and E of 
the Project and cause 
Shijiazhuang to carry out 
Parts B(3), C, D and E of the Project through 
Shijiazhuang Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd.; 
(iii)
cause Tangshan to carry out Parts C, D and E the 
Project and cause Tangshan to 
carry out Parts A(1), C, D 
and E of the Project through Tangshan Water Supply 
Company 
and Parts B(1), C, D and E of the Project through Tangshan Wastewater 
Treatment Co., Ltd.; and
(iv)
carry out Part D of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and environmental 
practices, and Hebei shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank and Hebei shall otherwise agree, 
Hebei shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried 
out, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Hebei shall carry out the obligations or cause to 
be carried out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of this Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, Hebei shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and Hebei, a plan for the 
Page  3
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Hebei on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Hebei shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Hebei shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
Hebei of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Hebei shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Hebei as well as 
the Project Municipalities responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
Hebei shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
Hebei thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify Hebei thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
Page  4
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall 
also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hebei:
No. 14 Huaan Street
Shijiazhuang, 
Hebei Province 050051 
People’s Republic of China 
Facsimile:
86-311-7031129
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Hebei may be taken or executed by its Governor or 
Vice-Governor, or by such other person or persons as Hebei shall 
designate in writing, and Hebei shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in           Beijing, People’s Republic of China, 
as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
HEBEI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable: (a) contracts for works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each; and 
(b) contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $400,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors (other 
than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or 
the Macau Administrative Region of the Borrower and works carried out by 
contractors from either of said regions).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  6
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Works estimated to cost less than $8,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $85,000,000 equivalent; 
and (b) goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $17,500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
Page  7
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000 the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the 
Implementation Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or 
referred to below.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Hebei 
shall:
(a)
continue to maintain a project management office with 
functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by qualified personnel in 
adequate numbers, to be responsible for: the overall coordination, 
management, supervision and quality assurance of Project implementation; 
Page  8
the supervision of the procurement of goods and services thereunder; the 
preparation and furnishing to the Bank of reports and other information 
thereon; and annual budget preparation for the Project; and
(b)
ensure that each Project Municipality shall continue to 
maintain a project office with functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible 
for: the coordination and supervision of the implementation of its and 
its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project; the supervision of 
procurement of goods and services under its and its Utility Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project; and the preparation and furnishing to PMO 
of reports and other information thereon.
Resettlement Action Plans and Environmental Assessment
2.
Hebei shall take, and shall cause the Project Municipalities to 
take, all measures necessary to ensure that the Project shall be carried 
out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans and the 
Environmental Assessment.
3.
Hebei shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement 
Action Plans or the Environmental Assessment shall be furnished to the 
Bank for prior approval.
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
4.
Hebei shall: 
(a)
carry out its part, and shall cause each of the Project 
Municipalities to carry out its respective part of the Industrial 
Pollution Control Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
ensure that the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan is 
not modified or amended without the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
Financial Arrangements
5.
Hebei shall allocate to each Project Municipality an amount of the 
Loan under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, 
without limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
The principal amount so made available to each Project 
Municipality: shall be the amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective 
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn on account of said Project Municipality’s 
Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Hebei shall recover: (i) the principal amount so made 
available; and (ii) an amount equal to one percent (1%) of said principal 
amount, over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period 
of five (5) years.
(c)
Hebei shall charge: (i) interest on said principal amount, 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate 
of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 
2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) a commitment charge on such 
principal amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate, equal to 
three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  9
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
6.
Hebei shall cause each Project Municipality to relend the portion 
of the proceeds of the Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant paragraph 
5 of this Schedule for the purposes of carrying out its Utility Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project, to its Utility Company under a subsidiary 
loan agreement to be entered into between said Project Municipality and 
its Utility Company: (a) on the principal terms set forth in Section I of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) under conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, 
those set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
7.
(a)
Hebei shall ensure that each Project Municipality shall 
cause its Utility Company to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
which said Utility Company 
is a party, all of the obligations of said Utility 
Company 
therein set forth; 
(ii)
take, or cause to be taken, all action, including the 
provision of funds, 
facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
said 
Utility Company to perform such obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere 
with such performance. 
(b)
Hebei shall, and shall cause each Project Municipality to, 
exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a 
party in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Bank, Hebei and said Project Municipality and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which Hebei or 
said Project Municipality is a party or any provision thereof.
Institutional Development
8.
Hebei shall cause each Project Municipality, through its respective 
Utility Company, to carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank and said action plan shall 
not be modified without the agreement of the Bank.
Monitoring and Reporting
9.
Hebei shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project, including the 
Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Assessment, as well as 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, the following quarterly reports on January 31, 
April 30, July 31 and October 31 in each year, beginning on October 31, 
2000, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 9(a) of this Schedule 2, based on the 
quarterly progress reports prepared by the municipal project offices 
referred to in paragraph 1(b) of this Schedule 2, on the physical and 
financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
Page  10
preceding calendar quarter (the report due on April 30, 2003, to 
summarize progress achieved during the period, from July 31, 2000 through 
March 31, 2003) and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 9(b) 
of this Schedule 2, review said report with the Bank (the report due on 
April 30, 2003, shall be reviewed with the Bank by June 30, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request), and promptly take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project (including, 
when applicable, the carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plans and 
the Environmental Assessment) and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
For the purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
the terms of availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth 
in Section I of this Schedule 3 and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall 
be entered into on the conditions set forth in Section II of this 
Schedule 3.
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1.
The principal amount of each Loan made by a Project Municipality to 
its Utility Company, shall be the amount in Dollars (on the respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn on account of said Utility Company's 
Respective Part of the Project.
2.
Each Project Municipality shall recover: (a) said principal amount; 
and (b) one percent of said principal amount, over a period of not more 
than fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
3.
Each Project Municipality shall charge interest on said principal 
amount, which is withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
not less than the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
4.
Each Project Municipality shall charge a commitment charge on said 
principal amount, which is not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate not 
less than three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following 
principal conditions.
1.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out the Utility Company’s Respective Part of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate technical, financial, engineering and 
public utility practices; 
and
(ii)
appropriate health, safety and environmental 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required for the purpose; and 
Page  11
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing, take all measures 
necessary to ensure that its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the 
Project shall be implemented in accordance with the Respective RAP and 
the Environmental Assessment.
2.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to procure the goods and 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such 
goods and services exclusively in the carrying out of its Utility 
Company’s Respective Part of the Project. 
3.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to enable the Bank, Hebei and 
the Project Municipality concerned to inspect such goods and the sites 
and works included in its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the 
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
4.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including, 
without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Utility 
Company to replace or repair such goods.
5.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition;
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Project 
Municipality concerned; 
(c)
furnish to Hebei, the Project Municipality concerned, and to 
the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for such 
year as so audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail 
as Hebei, the Bank and/or said Project Municipality shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, Hebei, and the Project 
Municipality concerned all such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, 
as the Bank, Hebei, and/or said Project Municipality shall reasonably 
request.
6.
Each Utility Company shall undertake, when applying to the relevant 
authorities for a tariff increase: (a) to include both the domestic 
consumer and industrial consumer categories in said tariff increase 
proposal; and (b) to implement such tariff increase as shall have been 
approved by said authorities.  Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (a), a 
Utility Company may include only the domestic consumer category in its 
tariff increase application provided that said Utility Company includes 
the industrial consumer category in its next tariff increase application 
and vice versa.  
7.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to continue to maintain a 
project implementation unit with functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible 
Page  12
for: the coordination and supervision of the implementation of its 
Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project; the supervision of 
procurement of goods and services under its Utility Company’s Respective 
Part of the Project; and the preparation and furnishing of reports and 
other information thereon to the respective Project Municipality’s 
project office.
8.
Handan Water Supply Company and Tangshan Water Supply Company shall 
for each fiscal year as of 2001, undertake:
(a)
to produce total revenues, equivalent to not less than the 
sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses; and
(ii)
increases in working capital other than cash, debt 
service requirements and 
20% of the annual average of its 
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to 
be incurred, 
for the current year, the previous fiscal year and the next 
following fiscal year;
(b)
 to review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of 
fiscal 2001 and on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory 
to the Bank, whether it would meet the requirements set forth in 
subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years 
covered by such review, promptly to take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of 
its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
9.
Handan Sewage Treatment Co., Ltd., Shijiazhuang Wastewater 
Treatment Co., Ltd., and Tangshan Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd., shall 
for each fiscal year as of 2001, undertake:
(a)
to produce total revenues, equivalent to not less than the 
sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses; and
(ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds 
the provision for 
depreciation;
(b)
to review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of 
fiscal 2001 and on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory 
to the Bank, whether it would meet the requirements set forth in 
subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its 
completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years 
covered by such review, promptly to take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of 
its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
10.
Each Utility Company shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a 
reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its 
estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt 
to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times its estimated debt service 
requirements in such year on all of its debt including the debt to be 
incurred.
11.
For purposes of this Schedule:
Page  13
(a)
The term “total revenues” means the terms of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income.
(b)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(c)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight line basis at a rate of not less than 3.3% per annum of the 
average current gross value of the Utility Company's fixed assets in 
operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest 
and other charges on debt.
(d)
The average current gross value of the Utility Company's 
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of 
the gross value of its fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at 
the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance 
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory 
to the Bank.
(e)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(f)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Utility 
Company maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred.
(g)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for such debt 
or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
  (h)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(i)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net 
non-operating income, and
(ii)
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and 
other charges on debt.
(i)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between:
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in 
(i) above.
(j)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by 
the Utility Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and said Utility 
Company accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified said 
Page  14
Utility Company of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or 
future operating results of said Utility Company.
(k)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the 
difference between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each fiscal year.
(l)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets 
other than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts receivable, 
marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly 
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(m)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which 
will become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment within twelve months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and dividends.
(n)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations. 
12.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at 
the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such 
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
13.
Each Project Municipality shall have the right to suspend or 
terminate the right of its Utility Company to the use of the proceeds of 
the loan made available under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with said 
Utility Company upon failure by such Utility Company to perform its 
obligations under the agreement.
