                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000984




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-45690 TF-26661)




                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR A

                     HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                               December 23, 2008




Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2008)

                           Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                              Y 1.00 = US$ 0.1459
                             US$ 1.00 = Y 6.8543

                                FISCAL YEAR



                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
MIS     Management Information System
PDO     Project Development Objectives
MTR     Mid-Term Review
MTAPC   Mid-Term Adjustment Project Components
RVP     Regional Vice-Presidency
IPCAP   Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
KPI     Key Performance Indicators
TTL     Task Team Leader
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
IT      Information Technology
GIS     Geographic Information System
HP      Hebei Province
HPG     Hebei Provincial Government
HUEP    Hebei Urban Environment Project
IA      Implementation Agency
TWSC    Tangshan Water Supply Company
HWSC    Handan Water Supply Company
SWWC    Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company
TWWC    Tangshan Wastewater Company
HWWC    Handan Wastewater Company
WTP     Water Treatment Plant
WWTP    Wastewater Treatment Plan
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
EMP     Environmental Management Plan


                          Vice President: James W. Adams

                        Country Director: David R. Dollar

                         Sector Manager: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez

                    Project Team Leader: Takuya Kamata

                       ICR Team Leader: Takuya Kamata

                                                CHINA
                           Hebei Urban Environment Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................9
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ..........................................................................................13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................19
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............36
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................38
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................39
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................40
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................50
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................51
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    HEBEI URBAN
Country:                China                 Project Name:         ENVIRONMENT
                                                                    PROJECT
Project ID:             P045910               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-45690,TF-26661
ICR Date:               12/30/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    PEOPLES' REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 150.0M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 149.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Hebei Project Management Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/24/1999    Effectiveness:        01/31/2001       01/31/2001
Appraisal:             03/04/2000    Restructuring(s):                      08/17/2007
Approval:              06/27/2000    Mid-term Review:                       11/15/2004
                                     Closing:              06/30/2007       06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Highly Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sewerage                                                       66                66
Sub-national government administration                          1                 1
Water supply                                                   33                33


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                          Primary         Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                       Primary         Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                 Primary         Primary
Water resource management                                     Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          James W. Adams                    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:          Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez          Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:      Takuya Kamata                    Wiebe Moes
ICR Team Leader:          Takuya Kamata
ICR Primary Author:       Claudio Purificato



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To develop a safe environment and to sustain the long-term economic growth of urban
areas in Hebei Province. The project supports Hebei Province in:

  1)implementing a long-term urban environmental services improvement program to
recover from environmental degradation of its water and land resources,


                                             ii

  2) providing an adequate supply of safe water to its growing urban population and
economy, and

  3) ensuring sustainability of delivery through institutional and financial reforms of the
service utilities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduction of pollution load from urban sources.
                                           e,g, waste water
                                           treatment rates
                e.g. waste water treatment (other indicators
Value           rates (other indicators    exist - see
quantitative or exist--see attachment)     attchment)
Qualitative)    - Handan 29%; Tangshan Handan60%;
                65%; Shijiazhuang 16% Tangshan 75%;
                                           Shijianzhuang
                                           50%.
Date achieved 01/01/2001                   06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Expansion of suppy of safe water to meet demand from domestic and industrial
                sectors.

                e.g. Handan service are    e.g. Handan
                                           service are
Value           and population coverage    population
quantitative or (other indicators exist--  coverage - service
Qualitative)    see attachment)
                -service area 75.99 km2    area 79.31 km2 -

                -population 818.2 ('000)   population
                                           980,000
Date achieved 01/01/2001                   06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Improvement of financial viability of municipal service providers.
Value           e.g. increase in           e.g. increase in
quantitative or wastewater (domestic)      wastewater
Qualitative)    tariffs (other indicators  (domestic) tariffs



                                                iii

               exist--see attchment)      (other indicators
               - Handan 0.22              exist - see
               - Tangshan 0.43            attachment) -
               - Shijiazhuang 0.3         Handan 0.45 -
                                          Tangshan0.9 -
                                          Shijiazhuang 0.8
Date achieved 01/01/2001                  06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from                    Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised    Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values Target Years
Indicator 1 :   e.g. improvement in accounting and MIS/ KPI system.
                e.g.Total operating
                revenue - Total operating
                income - Net income
Value           before income tax - Tariff
(quantitative   collection rate No        Targets are not

or Qualitative) baseline values were      available.

                available. For complete
                list of suggested
                indicators - See Annex 1
Date achieved 05/10/2000                  06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP             Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     10/31/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     11/03/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.00
  3     06/26/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 7.48
  4     12/27/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 7.94
  5     02/07/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 7.94
  6     02/22/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 7.94
  7     11/25/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 9.97
  8     03/17/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory               14.19
  9     04/11/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory               14.19
  10    10/23/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory               18.71



                                               iv

  11  04/02/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     30.64
  12  12/23/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     44.51
  13  06/15/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     65.79
  14  02/16/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     91.51
  15  06/28/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    116.22
  16  06/05/2008        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    127.99



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                     Key Changes Made
                             DO     IP     in USD
                                           millions
                                                       Components were added within

  08/17/2007        N         S     S       116.22     the same project sites and
                                                       within the same PDO as a result
                                                       of mid-term project review




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


Sector Background. China had made remarkable progress in expanding its urban water
supply and wastewater services since the nineties. Some progress had been achieved in
increasing service coverage, optimize the use of resources and reduce the municipal
pollution discharges into the environment. A large percentage of China's river stretches
had been classified as severely polluted. Coastal waters suffered from wide spread
eutrophication, including large-scale, toxic red tide of algae. In spite of extensive efforts
to improve water quality and ensure reliable water supplies, seasonal shortages and
polluted water resources continued to pose problems. Financing investments, and
ensuring investment efficiency, was a major challenge for the sector. Some water supply
utilities, and most wastewater utilities, relied heavily on municipal government funding.

In a context of serious water pollution and water scarcity, limited coverage (particularly
for wastewater treatment) and increasing costs, the achievement of full cost recovery and
introduction of cost control measures had become a growing requirement for the sector.
While several pricing reforms, to inspire tariff increases and introduce more scientific
methods of charging for the service received, were enacted by central government
agencies, these could have been successful in the long term only if institutional and
organizational reforms for the sector providers were also implemented.

Hebei had faced three major issues with regard to the urban environment: (i)
environmental degradation; (ii) infrastructure constraints; and (iii) financial weakness of
municipal services providers. The quantity and quality of water supplied to households
and industries as well as its impact on economic development, and the continuing
environmental deterioration of the aquatic environment and subsequent impact of water
pollution on public health had been major concerns for the Hebei Provincial Government
(HPG). Pressure to enhance capacity for wastewater management and water supply had
been increasing with sustained economic growth and migration to the cities. At the time
of project preparation, the capacity for wastewater treatment was limited. Except for
some industries which undertook their own treatment, facilities for domestic wastewater
treatment were limited in Hebei. In Shijiazhuang, the capital city, only 16% of the
wastewater was treated in a centralized facility. The predominant means of treatment was
through the use of septic tanks, which were often not operated efficiently and correctly.
The existing capacity of targeted areas of investments at the time of project appraisal is
summarized in the table below.

           Location         Wastewater       Drainage     Water Supply      Pipelines
                            Treatment        Systems       Production        (Km)
                             Capacity          (Km)         Capacity
                             (m3/day)                       (m3/day)
    SHIJIAZHUANG              160,000           69             -                -
    TANGSHAN                  336,000          228.2        400,000           516
    HANDAN                    100,000           200         144,500          359.8




                                                1

As a response to the increased demand for water and environment cleanup the Hebei
Provincial Government (HPG) has launched the plan for the expansion and improvement
of municipal wastewater management and water supply systems as well as embarked on a
series of reforms both aimed at improving cost recovery and improve efficiency of
service delivery by the companies.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The project was in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) at the time of project approval and supported two of the five CAS
priorities: (i) safeguarding the environment; and (ii) reducing infrastructure bottlenecks.
Specifically, it has expanded the capacity of urban environmental services and improved
the strengthening of water quality monitoring capability. The project also supported the
strategy to increasingly use tariffs to finance environment related public services.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objectives (PDO) of the Hebei Urban Environment Project
(HUEP) were to provide a safe environment and to sustain the long-term economic
growth of urban areas in Hebei Province (HP). The project supported Hebei Province in
implementing a long-term urban environmental services improvement program to recover
from environmental degradation of its water and land resources, provide an adequate
supply of safe water to its growing urban population and economy, and ensure
sustainability of delivery through institutional and financial reforms of the service
utilities. The changes and benefits that the operation was expected to achieve were
monitored through key associated performance indicators aimed to measure: (i) reduction
of pollution load from urban sources through selective high-impact wastewater collection
and disposal improvements; (ii) expansion of supply capacity for safe water in urban
areas to meet demand from domestic and industrial sectors; and (iii) strengthened
financial viability and institutional autonomy of municipal service providers.

The key indicators identified at the time of project preparation for monitoring project
outcomes and impacts are: (a) reduction of pollution load from urban sources; (b)
expansion of supply of safe water to meet demand from domestic and industrial sectors;
and (c) improvement of financial viability of municipal service providers.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Project Development Objectives (PDO) and key associated outcome targets have not
been revised during implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The project was targeting the population of the core urban areas of the three project cities
of Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan. The potable water infrastructures were aimed to
strengthen the reliability of water supplies to the three largest urban centers in Hebei and
to mitigate the effects of over-abstraction from ground water sources. Wastewater


                                              2

removal from the city centers and treatment components were aimed to improve the
quality of available surface water resources as well as the environmental conditions in the
cities. The total population in the above mentioned areas at the time of project approval
was estimated at 2.9 million projected to some 5.0 million by the year 2010. The primary
beneficiaries of the physical investments were identified in 950,000 people for the water
supply component and 1.6 million for the wastewater collection and disposal component.
Approximately 400,000 people were targeted to directly benefit from the completion of
the Handan wastewater and water supply components; approximately 640,000 people to
benefit from the completion of the Shijiazhuang wastewater component; and
approximately 570,000 people to benefit from the completion of the Tangshan
wastewater and water supply components. In addition to the above it was expected that
industrial and commercial activities would have benefited directly from project activities.



1.5 Original Components

The project included the four major components summarized below:

Water Supply. This component supported the upgrading and expansion of water supply
in Tangshan and Handan, as well as demand side management.

Tangshan

    ·   Raw water intake pumping station, with capacity of 160,000 m3/day, at Douhe
        reservoir located 15 km north of the city;
    ·   Raw water transmission main of pre-stressed concrete with diameter DN 1400
        mm and total length of 19 km;
    ·   Water treatment plant, with capacity of 150,000 m3/day; and
    ·   Distribution network strengthening with a total length of 9.5 km of pipes varying
        in diameter from DN 600-1200 mm.

Handan

    ·   Raw water intake works, with a capacity of 120,000 m3/day, at Yuecheng
        reservoir located 60 km south of Handan city;
    ·   Gravity raw water transmission main of pre-stressed concrete pipe, with a
        diameter varying from DN 1200-1400 mm and total length of 56.6 km;
    ·   Phase II of Tiexi water treatment plant, with a capacity of 100,000 m3/day; and
    ·   Strengthening of distribution network, with a total length of 50.8 km with pipe
        diameters varying from DN 300-1000 mm.

Wastewater Management. The component supported Hebei Provincial Government in
implementing its water quality strategy in the three project cities, through expansion of
wastewater collection and treatment facilities. The specific investments for each of the
targeted cities are detailed below:




                                             3

Shijiazhuang

    ·  Sewer interceptors for a total length of 27.9 km connecting the proposed
       wastewater treatment plant to the southwestern periphery of the city;
    ·  Conventional activated sludge sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 500,000
       m3/day, including sludge digesters and energy recovery; and
    ·  Secondary sewer program, including link sewers, for a total length of 12.3 km.

Tangshan

    ·  Sewer interceptors with diameters varying from DN 1000-1800 mm for a total
       length of 6.1 km connecting the proposed wastewater treatment plant to the
       southeastern periphery of the city;
    ·  Conventional activated sludge sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 120,000
       m3/day, including sludge treatment and composting facilities; and
    ·  Secondary sewer program, including link sewers, with diameters varying from
       DN 300-800 mm for a total length of 13.5 km.

Handan

    ·  Sewer interceptors with a diameter varying from DN 1000-1800 mm for a total
       length of 8.1 km connecting the proposed wastewater treatment plant to the
       northwestern periphery of the city;
    ·  Rehabilitation and expansion of the North Sewage Pumping Station with a
       capacity of 60,000 m /day;
    ·  Oxidation ditch sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 100,000 m3/day
       including sludge treatment facilities;
    ·  Secondary sewer program, including link sewers, with a diameter varying from
       DN 300-800 mm for a total length of 30.2 km; and
    ·  Expansion of sludge treatment for a capacity of 33,000 m3/day and optimization
       of plant operational capacity at existing East Wastewater Treatment Plant.

Environmental Pollution Control. The component was aimed to address the issue of
substantial pollution from industry, particularly in the Hai and Fuyang river basins,
through the implementation of a policy focused on Industrial Pollution Control Action
Plan (IPCAP). The objective of implementing the IPCAP was to reduce the scale of
pollution loads from industrial sectors and in turn maximize expected environmental
benefits from municipal investments. The proposed Industrial Pollution Control Action
Plan (IPCAP) consisted of an overall time-bound action plan for each city outlining
preliminary actions for: (a) quantitative analysis of pollution loads from industry based
on compliance with national standards at present rates of wastewater discharge; (b)
highlighting remaining non-complying discharges for immediate term control/closure; (c)
set up of a pollution load database for each receiving watercourse; (d) developing future
water quality objectives for all watercourses; (e) determining pollution load reductions
required for all watercourses to meet 2005 and 2010 water quality objectives; (f) stating
priority receiving watercourses requiring load reductions to meet desired water quality


                                              4

objectives; and (g) stating priority industry sectors and enterprises for control and load
reduction requirements

Institutional Development, Strengthening and Training. This component provided a
Technical Assistance (TA) to support and advice on appropriate institutional, managerial,
financial and operational arrangements to be put in place to enhance operational
effectiveness, efficiency of management and financial sustainability of the water supply
and wastewater companies in the project. Specific investments for this component are
detailed below:

Institutional/ Managerial Sub-component

This included: (a) development of a company strategy, business plans and management
information systems (MIS); (b) establishing service standards and monitoring
performance targets under a more autonomous arrangement; and (c) company
reorganization and development of human resources planning and training programs.

Financial Strengthening

This includes: (a) operationalize computerized accounting and financial reporting
systems; (b) developing a financial MIS system; (c) reviewing and revising current
billing practices to optimize collection efficiency; and (d) developing training programs.

Operation Enhancement

This includes: (a) identification and implementation of cost savings initiatives; (b)
preparation and implementation of sludge disposal plans; and (c) introduction of modem,
cost effective, operations and maintenance equipment, including training.

Management and Geographic Information

This includes: (a) assess current methods and systems for collection and maintenance of
spatial and non-spatial data; (b) develop action plans for implementation of improved
information technologies such as MIS and GIS; (c) identify and implement linkages
required at local, provincial and national level for data sourcing; and (d) implement
training programs to support the introduction and maintenance of the above information
systems.

1.6 Revised Components

No major revision of project components took place during implementation. However
significant reallocation of funds occurred during the execution of the project (see next
paragraph).

1.7 Other significant changes




                                               5

During the Mid-Term Review (MTR) which was carried out in November 2004, the Bank
task team identified that a significant amount of loan proceeds was remaining
unallocated. Based on that assessment, it was recommended that the remaining loan
proceeds, which had originally been "unallocated" in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement,
as well as generated by loan savings, were utilized to carry out: i) critical additional
rehabilitation and upgrading work on the same water supply and wastewater systems
implemented under the original Components 1 and 2 of the Project, in Tangshan and
Handan municipalities; and ii) additional studies and training to ensure sustainability of
the organizational reforms, which was included under the original Component 3 of the
Project. These components were referred to as "Mid-Term Adjustment Project
Components (MTAPC)".

A full set of preparatory activities including feasibility studies, final designs and
complete review of safeguards and fiduciary aspects was required to incorporate the new
components into the project. Also, the project restructuring required amendments to the
Loan and Project Agreements. All the restructuring process was time consuming and was
completed in year 2007.

The investments implemented under the MTAPC are showed in the table below which
link original components to related additional works and upgrades.

The proposed amendments constituted a "second-order restructuring", requiring RVP
approval, as set forth in BP13.05 since the proposals did not involve any changes to
project development objectives while the reallocation exceeded the five-percent threshold
defined in BP 13.25.

 COMPONENTS                    Original Design                            MTAPC
 Water Supply
 Tangshan           ·   Raw water intake pumping station,    ·  Upgrading water distribution
                        with capacity of 160,000 m3/day, at     network by replacing 31 km of
                        Douhe reservoir located 15 km           water pipes;
                        north of the city;                   ·  Upgrading intake pumping station
                    ·   Raw water transmission main of          at old Beijiao Water Treatment
                        pre-stressed concrete with diameter     Plant and Groundwater Treatment
                        DN 1400 mm and total length of 19       Plant, as well as upgrading of
                        km;                                     equipment in the Beijiao Water
                    ·   Water treatment plant, with capacity    Treatment Plant;
                        of 150,000 m3/day; and
                    ·   Distribution network strengthening
                        with a total length of 9.5 km of
                        pipes varying in diameter from DN
                        600-1200 mm.
 Handan             ·   Raw water intake works, with a       ·  Upgrading of water supply
                        capacity of 120,000 m3/day, at          distribution network to larger
                        Yuecheng reservoir located 60 km        ductile pipes;
                        south of Handan city;                ·  Upgrading of the equipment for
                    ·   Gravity raw water transmission          aging early-phase parts of the
                        main of pre-stressed concrete pipe,     water treatment plant;
                        with a diameter varying from DN
                        1200-1400 mm and total length of



                                                   6

                   56.6 km;
                ·  Phase II of Tiexi water treatment
                   plant, with a capacity of 100,000
                   m3/day; and
                ·  Strengthening of distribution
                   network, with a total length of 50.8
                   km with pipe diameters varying
                   from DN 300-1000 mm.
Wastewater Management
Shijiazhuang    ·  Sewer interceptors for a total length
                   of 27.9 km connecting the proposed
                   wastewater treatment plant to the
                   southwestern periphery of the city;
                ·  Conventional activated sludge
                   sewage treatment plant with a
                   capacity of 500,000 m3/day,
                   including sludge digesters and
                   energy recovery; and
                ·  Secondary sewer program,
                   including link sewers, for a total
                   length of 12.3 km.
Tangshan        ·  Sewer interceptors with diameters     · Tangshan Wastewater:
                   varying from DN 1000-1800 mm            Construction of an effluent reuse
                   for a total length of 6.1 km            plant for the use of treated
                   connecting the proposed wastewater      wastewater as cooling water for
                   treatment plant to the southeastern     the nearby power plant and
                   periphery of the city;                  associated pipelines. The same
                ·  Conventional activated sludge           implementation agency of the
                   sewage treatment plant with a           original Component 2 ­ (ii),
                   capacity of 120,000 m3/day,             Tangshan Wastewater Company
                   including sludge treatment and          Co., Ltd, will be in charge of
                   composting facilities; and              implementation of this additional
                ·  Secondary sewer program,                component.
                   including link sewers, with
                   diameters varying from DN 300-
                   800 mm for a total length of 13.5
                   km.
Handan          ·  Sewer interceptors with a diameter    · Handan Wastewater: Upgrading
                   varying from DN 1000-1800 mm            and extension of sewage pipes
                   for a total length of 8.1 km            serving the old Eastern
                   connecting the proposed wastewater      Wastewater Treatment Plant and
                   treatment plant to the northwestern     upgrading of equipment at the
                   periphery of the city;                  same plant. The same
                ·  Rehabilitation and expansion of the     implementation agency of the
                   North Sewage Pumping Station            original Component 2 ­ (iii),
                   with a capacity of 60,000 m /day;       Handan Sewerage Treatment Co.,
                ·  Oxidation ditch sewage treatment        Ltd, will be in charge of
                   plant with a capacity of 100,000        implementation of this additional
                   m3/day including sludge treatment       component.
                   facilities;
                ·  Secondary sewer program,
                   including link sewers, with a
                   diameter varying from DN 300-800
                   mm for a total length of 30.2 km;
                   and



                                              7

                    ·  Expansion of sludge treatment for a
                       capacity of 33,000 m3/day and
                       optimization of plant operational
                       capacity at existing East
                       Wastewater Treatment Plant.
 Environmental Pollution Control
Industrial          ·  quantitative analysis of pollution
Pollution Control      loads from industry based on
Action Plan            compliance with national standards
(IPCAP)                at present rates of wastewater
                       discharge;
                    ·  highlighting remaining non-
                       complying discharges for immediate
                       term control/closure;
                    ·  set up of a pollution load database
                       for each receiving watercourse;
                    ·  developing future water quality
                       objectives for all watercourses;
                    ·  determining pollution load
                       reductions required for all
                       watercourses to meet 2005 and 2010
                       water quality objectives;
                    ·  stating priority receiving
                       watercourses requiring load
                       reductions to meet desired water
                       quality objectives; and
                    ·  stating priority industry sectors and
                       enterprises for control and load
                       reduction requirements
Institutional Development, Strengthening and Training
Institutional/      ·  development of company strategy,
Managerial Sub-        business plans and management
component              information systems (MIS);
                    ·  establishment of service standards
                       and monitoring performance targets
                       under more autonomous
                       arrangement; and
                    ·  company reorganization and
                       development of human resources
                       planning and training programs;
Financial           ·  operationalize computerized
Strengthening          accounting and financial reporting
                       systems;
                    ·  developing financial MIS system;
                    ·  reviewing and revising current
                       billing practices to optimize
                       collection efficiency; and
                    ·  developing training programs;
Operation           ·  identification and implementation of  · carrying out a study of sludge
Enhancement            cost savings initiatives;               disposal at the Qiaodong
                    ·  preparation and implementation of       Wastewater Treatment Plant in
                       sludge disposal plans; and              Shijiazhuang;
                    ·  introduction of modem, cost           · carrying out a water supply and
                       effective, operations and               wastewater management




                                                  8

                        maintenance equipment, including        study/training;
                        training;
 Management and     ·   assess current methods and systems    · establishment of a geographical
 Geographic             for collection and maintenance of       information system ("GIS")
 Information            spatial and non-spatial data;           system in Handan;
                    ·   develop action plans for
                        implementation of improved
                        information technologies such as
                        MIS and GIS;
                    ·   identify and implement linkages
                        required at local, provincial and
                        national level for data sourcing; and
                    ·   implement training programs to
                        support the introduction and
                        maintenance of the above
                        information systems;



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Bank sector work at the time of preparation highlighted that water and sanitation projects
in China had been facing a number of challenges which included among others: (i)
constraints in fulfilling financial viability of municipal services; (ii) difficulties in
implementing agreed tariff increases in a timely manner due to the politically difficult
decisions for local governments; (iii) poor performances in tracking and controlling
industrial pollution.

The lesson learned from earlier operations were incorporated into the design of the
project and included: (i) policy dialogue with the Hebei Government on tariff reforms
and improvement of operational efficiency at early stage of project preparation. This was
intended to encourage incentives for resource conservation and to create a more reliable
income stream; (ii) as an integral part of the project design substantial tariff adjustments
were implemented during the preparation stage and prior to negotiation. In addition to
that Bank and municipal governments agreed upfront on a schedule for tariff adjustments
during the implementation of the project; (iii) Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
(IPCAP) for each city outlining preliminary actions to reduce the scale of pollution loads
from industrial sectors and in turn maximize expected environmental benefits from
municipal investments.

The Government has demonstrated adequate commitment to the proposed project as
evidenced by: (i) regular involvement by the high level Leading Group, headed by the
Vice Governor, to support institutional reform and tariff increases; (ii) excellent
performance by the provincial and municipal project management offices during the
preparation of the proposed project; (iii) major upfront actions on institutional reform in
the wastewater subsector and substantial tariff increases for both water supply and
wastewater; (iv) investment of considerable provincial and municipal resources in the




                                                   9

preparation of comprehensive feasibility studies for an extended period; and (v) hiring of
top class local design institutes for technical studies as well as safeguard policies.

The Bank brought considerable international experience in assisting the client in policy
formulation and investment program design and especially in addressing institutional and
financial reform within water supply and wastewater utilities. The Bank involvement has
allowed the introduction of more cost-effective solutions and enhanced the construction
quality control of the physical investments, accelerated institutional strengthening and
training, and contributed to accelerate promotion of utility reforms.

A critical aspect of the project preparation is related to the design of the monitoring and
evaluation system. A number of indicators were identified and selected. However they
were not fully adequate to monitor progress towards Project Development Objectives
(PDO) since no specific indicators were agreed to monitor the financial performance of
the municipal service companies. Moreover, no baseline information was clearly set
forward at the time of project appraisal and prior to starting implementation. Also,
another aspect in which the project preparation failed is that no targets were discussed
and provided in the approval documents.

2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented mostly as designed and largely achieved the development
objectives, particularly with respect to institutional strengthening and provision of safe
water supply. Water and wastewater companies substantially met performance indicators
on operational aspects, thanks to the positive effects of corporate and organizational
improvement works that were carried out since the early stage of implementation. With
regard to financial performance, most of the companies met the cost recovery and debt
service coverage covenants with the exception of Shijiazhuang Drainage Company which
is the only one that lagged behind on this aspect despite the tariff increase approved by the
Province. Some adjustments took place following the mid-term review and accordingly the
project was completed on June 30, 2008, one year behind the originally scheduled closing
date of June 30, 2007. This was required mainly to implement the new activities
incorporated under the Mid-Term Adjustment Project Components (MTAPC) plan.

Carried out in November 2004, the mid-term review found the project substantially on
track. However, as a result of the mid-term review, it was agreed to reallocate funds within
the Loan to incorporate critical additional rehabilitation and training. Preparatory works
for the MTAPC including feasibility studies, engineering designs, procurement processes,
and safeguard and fiduciary reviews were carried out by the project implementation
agencies in Hebei Province and the Bank task team. In addition to the above additional
Bank financial reviews highlighted an erroneous presentation in the financial covenant in
Schedule 3 of the Project Agreement. This required an amendment to the Project
Agreement to incorporate MTAPC into the legal documents and to correct the financial
covenant issue. The whole preparation and approval process to incorporate the new
components into the project was time consuming and was completed in August 2007 with
the clearance and approval provided by EAPVP.



                                              10

The amendments included: (a) reallocation of loan proceeds of US$19.79 million (13
percent of the total Loan amount of US$150 million) to implement additional critical
rehabilitation and upgrade works on the water supply and sewerage systems in the same
Project municipalities; (b) an extension of the Closing Date by nine months to June 30,
2008; and (c) rectification of the double counting of the value of depreciation and debt
service requirements in a financial covenant in the Project Agreement.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project monitoring and evaluation system designed at the time of project preparation
selected a number of indicators that were not fully adequate to monitor progress toward
Project Development Objectives (PDO). No specific indicators were agreed to monitor
the financial performance of the municipal service companies. No baseline information
was made available at the time of project appraisal and prior to starting implementation.
Also, no established targets were discussed and provided in the approval documents.

The development of the above mentioned M&E activities and the compilation of
correlated baseline information lagged behind during the execution of the project due, for
the most part, to a temporary lack of guidance that occurred at the time a change in the
Bank Task Team composition took place. When the current and latest TTL took over the
responsibility of the project in 2006, the set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were
revised and made operationally more relevant and practical. However, no targets were
agreed between the Bank and the implementation agencies at the time KPIs were revised since
the project was too close to its final stage.


The selection was based on the following criteria: (i) indicators should have been specific
and relevant; (ii) indicators should have been simple and easy to measure; (iii) make the
most of the monitoring indicators that the companies already reported to the relevant
regulatory bodies. The new set of amended indicators was included in the Bank
monitoring and reporting system.

The originally defined set of indicators are compared with the revised KPIs and showed
in the table below.

    KEY PERFORMANCE                       Originally Designed             Revised
        INDICATORS
Sector Indicators                   ·    Ambient environment
                                         conditions in Hebei
                                         improved
                                    ·    Environmental related
                                         health problems reduced
                                    ·    Urban environmental
                                         infrastructure supply meets
                                         demand
Outcome Indicators                  ·    Reduction of pollution load
                                         from urban sources
                                    ·    Expansion of supply of safe
                                         water to meet demand from
                                         domestic and industrial



                                                   11

                       sectors
                     · Improvement of financial
                       viability of municipal
                       service providers
Output Indicators    · Ratio of actual tariff to cost Quarterly Indicators
                       recovery tariff is increased
                     · Volume increase for:           Operational
                       wastewater collected, safe
                       water supplied, number of      For Water Supply Company
                       small and medium               (1) Volume of Water Sold
                       industries adopting cleaner    (2) Unaccounted for water ratio
                       technology                     (3) Quality of water
                     · Long-term water resource            (i) turbidity
                       strategy developed and              (ii) residual chlorine
                       number of staff trained in         (iii) coliforms
                       water quality monitoring           (iv) total bacteria
                     · Percentage of sewage
                       collected and treated          For Waste Water Company
                     · Percentage nutrient removal    (4) Volume of Water Treated
                     ·                                (5) Quality of Treated Water
                       Supplies increased to meet
                                                           (i) COD
                       demand; water quality
                                                           (ii) BOD
                       improved
                     ·                                    (iii) SS
                       Reduction in pollution load
                                                          (iv) NH3-N
                       from key industries
                     ·                                    (v)   TP
                       Improvements in
                       accounting and MIS,
                                                      Financial
                       numbers of management
                       and staff trained
                                                      For Water Supply Company and
                                                      Waste Water Company
                                                      (6) Total operating revenue
                                                      (7) Total operating income
                                                      (8) Net income before income
                                                          tax
                                                      (9) Collection efficiency rate

                                                      Annual indicators

                                                      For Both Water Supply Company
                                                      and Waste Water Company
                                                      (10)Unit consumption of
                                                          electricity
                                                      (11)Unit consumption of
                                                          chemicals

                                                      For Water Supply Company
                                                      (12)Water supply volume per
                                                          employee

                                                      For Waste Water Company
                                                      (13)Waste water treated volume
                                                          per employee
                                                      (14)Volume of treated water
                                                          reused
                                                      (15)Volume of sludge
                                                      (16)Volume of sludge disposed



                                 12

                                                                    other than landfill



2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

All aspects related to the Environmental Assessments, Fiduciary and Safeguards issues
have been found satisfactory. The project received the environmental category B
classification which entailed a partial environmental assessment. Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for the original
components were implemented satisfactorily.

With regard to the works included under the additional MTAPC all EMPs were cleared
by the Bank. It was determined that no Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) were needed
for the additional works since there was no resettlement associated with the proposed
investments. All the civil works and equipment upgrade were located in existing sites,
roads and city boundaries and no land acquisition was involved for the additional works.

All major procurement activities were completed satisfactorily and regular post-reviews
confirmed compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. All the procurement methods
were in accordance with the original procurement arrangements. Only one change was
required to include Single Source Selection procurement method for consultants'
selection to allow the same supervising consultant to continue performing the supervision
duties on the MTAPC.

Periodic supervision mission reviews of financial management (FM) rated financial
management as satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

All the utility companies other than SWWC already carried out basic performance
monitoring and reported some of the indicators to the relevant regulatory bodies on a
monthly basis. The project contributed to improve the KPIs management system by
introducing a more functional set of performance indicators and by establishing
monitoring routines which will allow future and more systematic evaluation of utility
companies' progress. The water supply and sanitation companies have been in operation
for quite few years during project implementation. The Bank rated their performance
satisfactory and therefore no issues related to transition are expected.



3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project, as designed and implemented, tackles some of the China's development
challenges as identified in the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) (2006),
notably: (i) pricing water to reflect more accurately the scarcity value of water and the



                                             13

environmental degradation linked to water use and water pollution; (ii) taking steps to
minimize water pollution by processing urban wastewater for reuse.

Also, the project is consistent with the current Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
(2003) and corporate goals to address the expansion of urban wastewater collection and
treatment facilities while upgrading utilities management and performance, and
improving efficiency of water supply.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project Development Objective (PDO) of providing safe environment and to sustain
the long-term economic growth of urban areas in Hebei Province was substantially
achieved. The accomplishments were measured by project outcome indicators, which
included: (i) reduction of pollution load from urban sources; (ii) expansion of supply of
safe water to meet the demand from domestic and industrial sector; and (iii) improvement
of financial viability of municipal service providers.

Specifically, the project has contributed significantly to protecting the water resources
and supplying adequate safe water in Hebei Province. The direct beneficiary population
of the project is approximately 2.58 million people, 0.97 million more than the 1.61
million estimated in the PAD. The wastewater components in Handan, Shijiazhuang and
Tangshan are fully operating and reduce, every year, the discharge of contaminants in
receiving water bodies for a total of about 121,990 tons of COD; 54,100 tons of BOD;
38,700 tons of suspended solid (SS) and 10,610 tons of ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N).
Additionally, the project has achieved even greater pollution control than originally
planned through the adoption of a Wastewater Reclamation Plant in Tangshan
constructed through the utilization of loan savings. Both water supply components in
Handan and Tangshan have been put into operation and have been supplying safe
drinking water. Also, both Handan and Tangshan Water Supply components constructed
additional distribution networks through the utilization of loan savings, increasing
beneficiary population above the estimates in the PAD. The outputs of Technical
Assistance have been successfully strengthening financial viability and institutional
autonomy of municipal service companies towards the goal of full cost recovery.

The financial performances of the five implementing agencies are summarized below. All
the utility companies other than SWWC had complied with the financial covenants1 in
2007. For this compliance, TWWC and HWWC received government subsidies. HWSC
and TWWC had planned to implement the tariff increase in 2008. However, due to the
inflationary environment in China, it was delayed and will likely not be implemented
until the second half of 2009. As a result, the two companies would not be able to comply
with the debt service coverage covenant in 2008. HWWC and SWWC have to further
improve the collection rate. SWWC, which could not achieve the collection rate of 60%
for a long period, recently improved the collection rate substantially from 60% in 2005 to
85% in 2007. HWWC, which experienced a sudden dip in the collection rate to 67% in

1A cost recovery ratio of at least 1.0 and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3.




                                                            14

2007 after the tariff increase, is expected to recover it to 72% in 2008. ICR assessment is
that HWWC and SWWC can achieve their targets with the strong support from the
relevant municipal government. With these targets achieved, all the companies would be
able to comply with the financial covenants in 2010 and onwards as the tariff increases
will be implemented as planned.

                              Compliance Status of Financial Covenants


                                  actual                                projected
                                      2007        2008          2009          2010          2011      2012
Water Supply Company
TWSC
 Cost Recovery Ratio                   1.1         1.1           1.0            1.1           1.1      1.1
 Debt Service Ratio                    1.5         1.5           1.5            1.4           2.4      2.4


HWSC
 Cost Recovery Ratio                   1.0         1.0           1.0            1.1          1.0      1.2
 Debt Service Ratio                    1.3         0.8           1.1            1.3          1.3      2.1


Waste Water Company
TWWC
 Cost Recovery Ratio                   1.1         1.0           1.0            1.1          1.0      1.1
 Debt Service Ratio                    1.4         1.0           1.2            1.4          1.3      1.6


HWWC
 Cost Recovery Ratio                   1.5         1.1           1.2            1.2          1.4      1.3
 Debt Service Ratio                    2.3         1.3           1.4            1.4          1.9      1.9


SWWC
 Cost Recovery Ratio                   0.9         1.0           1.0            1.3          1.2      1.2
 Debt Service Ratio                    0.8         1.0           1.0            1.7          1.7      1.7




The implementing agencies started to collect Key Performance Indicators (KPI) from the
first quarter of 2007 in accordance with KPI revision carried out in December 2006 (see
paragraph 2.3). Some results of key performance indicators for the fourth quarter of 2007
and fiscal year 20072 are reported below.




2HWSC reported the 2006 figures by miscommunication. The annual indicators were not provided by SWWC.




                                                    15

                         Results of KPI for Water Supply Companies


                                                             TWSC             HWSC
                                                        Actual   Target   Actual   Target

    Quarterly Indicators                              (2007 4Q)         (2006 4Q)
    Operational
  1 Water Sales Volume                     (000 m3/d)       250               132
  2 Unaccounted for Water Ratio                 %         22.2%            19.3%
  3 Quality of Water
    (i) turbidity                            (NTU)         0.35              0.45
    (ii) residual chlorine                   (mg/L)          0.4             0.54
    (iii) coliform                           (0/mL)           0                 0
    (iv) total bacteria                     (CFU /mL)       < 3             0.096


    Financial1)
  4 total operating revenue                (RMB million)     34              80.5
  5 total operating income                 (RMB million)    0.0               -28
  6 net income before income tax           (RMB million)     0.2              -33
  7 tariff collection rate                    (%)         99.8%            92.5%

    Annual Indicators                                   (2007)           (2006)
  7 Unit consumption of electricity        (kwh/1000m3)     371               266
  8 unit consumption of chemicals           (kg/1000m3)      15               3.5
  9 water supply volume per employee       (m3/d/person)    192               125

    1) All HWSC's figures are 2006 figures.



Targets for each indicator, as mentioned in other part of this report, were not available.



3.3 Efficiency

All the water and wastewater components are estimated to generate financial rates of
return (FIRRs) above the average cost of capital of 4.0%. These rates of return result
from the fact that the project costs for all the components have been effectively
controlled. In order to realize these rates of return, however, all the water supply and
wastewater companies need to increase the tariffs as planned. During implementation of
the proposed tariff increases, HWWC and SWWC also need to improve the collection
rate of tariff revenues as planned. The implementation of tariff increases depends on the
central government's continuing policy guidelines promoting full cost recovery and local
government compliance with the guidelines. ICR assessment is that: (i) all the utility
companies can achieve this goal with the strong support from the relevant municipal
government; and (ii) HWWC and SWWC would require further support to improve the
collection rate from the relevant government agencies such as the construction bureau,
the water resource bureau, etc. The economic rates of return (EIRRs) were revaluated
only for the water supply components. The EIRRs are estimated at 18.6% for TWSC and
12.3% for HWSC, which ensures the economic viability of the project.




                                                   16

                        FIRR                          EIRR

                  ICR          PAD               ICR         PAD


TWSC                 12.6%         9.8%          18.6%      14.4%


HWSC                  8.4%         8.8%          12.3%      12.9%


TWWC                  9.8%      -                  -          -


HWWC                  7.2%      -                  -          -


SWWC                  7.6%      -                  -          -




3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The PDOs remained relevant to current China objectives and fully consistent with the
latest Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). In an operating urban environment that is
changing rapidly, the project achieved the outcomes envisaged at appraisal. At the project
closing the developments achieved through the implementation of the project components
were likely sustainable. The project has been carried out efficiently and the implementing
agencies are expected to continue to operate in a satisfactory manner as proved by the
economic and financial analysis. Overall outcome is therefore considered satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project doesn't make explicit and direct reference to poverty reduction implications.
However, the support provided through its implementation contributes substantially to
promote economic growth in the three cities, increase development opportunities and
decrease poverty. The water supply component improves quantity, reliability and quality
of water supplied by mitigating the effects of over-abstraction from ground water
sources. The wastewater component improves the sanitary conditions by treating and
removing wastewater from the center of the cities. The extensive construction activities
and support services carried out during implementation and subsequent operations
contributed to create job opportunities.

(b) Institutional Change/ Strengthening

The project caused significant beneficial institutional changes. It fostered transition of
utilities companies from being centrally planned governmental agencies to autonomous,
market-driven operating companies. Several innovations were promoted and introduced
in specific functional areas like institutional development, business planning, financial


                                              17

management, financial projections and tariff development, Management Information
Systems (MIS), Geographical Information Systems (GIS), Information Technology (IT),
water operations, wastewater operations and sludge management; and human resource
development.

The evaluation of the impacts in each functional area is summarized below for each of
the companies targeted by the project. The table provides an overview of the trend/results
in institutional strengthening. The notations used in the table indicate the following levels
of achievement:

       : Substantial progress has been achieved;
       : Certain progress has been achieved; and
       : No visible progress has been identified.

                    Summary of Progress of Institutional Strengthening
                                              TWSC      TWWC       HWSC       HWWC       SWWC
 Institutional reform
 Business planning
 Financial management
 Financial projections & tariff development.
 MIS
 GIS
 Information technology
 Operations
 Human resources development



There are several reasons why visible results were not identified at the present in some of
the areas. The project was not particularly effective on those areas where the companies
have no decision making role. In fact, most of recommended steps in institutional reform
are still responsibilities of municipal governments. Moreover some of the companies still
do not achieve the level of organizational development required to move ahead with the
recommended steps. This was particularly evident in business planning, MIS, etc for
SWWC. In other cases companies were not willing to take in recommendations and
incorporate changes since they were not perceived as required. The areas of IT and MIS
for HWSC were one of these cases. So, the stage of impact varies from one company to
another, depending on the stage of development of each company. In general, positive
impacts were achieved in areas that are under the direct control of the companies and
where they can identify operations weaknesses.

Several examples of notable achievements were: (i) all companies established their own
business plans; (ii) measures for promoting sustainable water resources management put
in place from municipal governments; (iii) all companies enhanced financial management
capacity; (iv) substantial results achieved in the area of re-use the treated waste water in
industry; (v) companies introduced mechanisms for evaluating staff performance and
training planning; (vi) companies have started staff restructuring program aimed to
improve company efficiency through the upgrade of expertise and reduction of workforce
redundancies.


                                               18

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Remarkable were the excellent management and dissemination of project results as well
as outcomes coming from utilities restructuring. As an indication of the good
performance provided by the implementing agencies, they received a number of
invitations to present their experience in international conferences and sector events all
over China.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

There are possible financial risks to the sustainability of project outcomes. Although
scenarios for the financial viability of project investments are sound, there is a risk that
financial sustainability of water and wastewater companies is not maintained. However,
municipal governments are committed to the financial performance targets of the utilities
and to adjust tariffs annually as well as to promote more pronounced policies on cost
recovery for basic utility services.

The environmental benefits of reduced pollution load and improved urban environment
are implicit in the project and are likely to be sustained and expanded on a much larger
scale. However, there is an environmental risk that pollution reduction efforts in industry
are not fully implemented. The project has developed the instruments needed to manage
this risk through the implementation of the Industrial Pollution Control Action plan
which ensures that major sources of pollution are identified and dealt with and that
outlined water quality objectives are achieved.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

In general preparation and appraisal work ensured a sound project design and created the
conditions to facilitate the achievement of the development objectives. The Bank ensured
adequacy of fiduciary arrangements and made sure that provisions for safeguards were
put in place. The project had strategic relevance and was responsive to the issues that
policy makers considered of the highest priority. Technical due diligence was well
conducted and the Task Team provided extra effort to improve engineering design by
engaging international expertise, government, and top-notch local designer in a dialogue
to promote cutting-edge technologies and to develop innovative solutions.




                                              19

Although the project preparation failed in discussing and providing clear and defined
targets for the key performance indicators, still the project has been prepared and started
its implementation on solid basis given the high quality of the engineering design and the
outstanding institutional support. Overall the performance is considered satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank mission ensured a solid mechanism of monitoring and evaluation during
project implementation. Supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects was carried out in
a timely and appropriate manner; specialists in financial management, procurement and
social science participated extensively in supervision. The focus on development
objectives was strongly maintained and targeted outcomes continuously emphasized
along project implementation.

All the issues faced during the implementation of the project were proactively flagged
and resolved. Supervision missions were conducted appropriately and aide memoires
addressed concisely and clearly implementation status and issues to be resolved. The
mid-term review identified strengths and weaknesses of project implementation and
provided direction for improvements.

It is worth to mention that this project has had three TTLs during its implementation. The
quality of supervision faced noticeable gaps especially during the interim periods of the
replacements when the implementation suffered some delays and lack of coordination
and direction. However, although the transition arrangements have not resulted to be
really effective, still the last two TTLs made a considerable amount of work during the
implementation to move the project ahead. The second focusing on the resolution of
procurement issue and construction activities, the third one finalizing the revision of the
KPIs. With regard to the latter, as explained in other parts of this report, the earlier
supervision efforts were focused on moving procurement and construction ahead and did
not pay optimal attention on M&E target values: thus, the revision occurred too close to
the closing date of the project, so the Bank and counterpart was unable to agree on
targets. While the M&E targets were not officially agreed to, remarkable improvement in
the quality in water discharges was obvious through the supervision teams' every visits.
For all the above mentioned reasons the rating is considered as S.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team played a decisive role in ensuring quality at entry, resolving problems and
identifying opportunities during supervision. The Bank had a decisive input into the
success of the project. As indicated previously, both dimensions of Bank performance
were rated satisfactory. Although some gaps in the quality of supervision occurred for a
limited period of time for the reasons explained above, the overall outcome of Bank
performance, given the resourcefulness in problem solving and a pro-active results
orientated approach, can be considered satisfactory.



                                              20

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Central and local governments demonstrated proactive collaboration at the time of project
preparation as well as strong ownership and commitment to achieve development
objectives during project implementation. However, as pointed out in other part of this
report, municipal governments did not result to be reactive in enabling environment
especially with regard to institutional reforms aimed to separate regulatory authority from
operative functions. It was recognizable that, given the nature of the areas to be reformed,
this process will require longer time than expected to be completed. Central and local
governments provided practical level of readiness for implementation by establishing
Project Management Offices (PMOs) and by ensuring that PMOs at all levels were
financed, fully staffed and effective.

The Project Management Office (PMO) at the Hebei Finance Bureau did an excellent job
in disseminating knowledge and lessons learned from the project among urban utility
companies all over Hebei Province. Also, intermediate project outcome were presented
by the PMO at the Congress of the World Water Association held in Beijing in
September 2006. In conclusion, the PMO provided an outstanding performance in project
management which was rated by the Bank task team as one of the best practices
management among all urban projects in China.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The implementing agency i.e. water and wastewater municipal companies, performed
well, focusing on implementation and problem solving and committing to the
achievement of development objectives. All key reporting and monitoring requirements ­
quarterly progress reports, financial projections, study tour reports, etc. ­ were carried out
in a highly professional and timely manner during the implementation of the project. At
the project closure, all implementing agencies were regularly measuring performance
indicators on operational aspects, thanks to the positive effects of corporate and
organizational improvement works carried out since the early stage of implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Performances of the central, provincial and local governments as well as of implementing
agencies are rated highly satisfactory. Given the tremendous effort made by the
implementing agencies to meet performance indicators, although with some weaknesses,
and by the Government and PMO to create the conditions for a smooth project
implementation, overall Borrower performance is considered highly satisfactory.



6. Lessons Learned


                                             21

The management capacity of project management offices at Provincial Governments can
make substantial difference in policy changes and project implementation. The Hebei
Provincial Project Management Office (HPMO) has generations of highly capable
directors and staff members throughout the project implementation period, who were able
to guide the implementing agencies ­ water and wastewater companies ­ and municipal
governments through institutional improvements, financial performance improvement,
tariff adjustment legislative processes, procurement processing, reporting and reallocation
of loan proceeds. It was one of the most important contributing factors to the successful
implementation of this program.

The Chinese government's practice of knowledge sharing around this Project should be
promoted as one of the best examples. The high-quality of project management practices
of HPMO has been shared with local governments within China and abroad through
many domestic and international conferences. In addition, HPMO hosted many
knowledge sharing activities in the Province, in which the implementing agencies (water
utility companies) of this Project provided assistance on institutional and technical
management improvement to other smaller water utility companies in the Province.

Solid technical due diligence during project preparation is of paramount importance to
ensure sustainable water investments and improve technology transfer. Because the
feasibility studies at project appraisal defined appropriate design parameters, subsequent
detailed engineering design work went smoothly and the common problems of excess
capacity of treatment facilities have been avoided. While the client had to revise
feasibility studies so many times at the Bank appraisal team's requests, it should be
acknowledged that this quality control exercise has paid off.

Thorough analysis of pollutants in influent based on actual sampling is crucial. It is a
common practice of Chinese design institutes that theoretical assumptions or examples of
other cases are used for defining influent characteristics for treatment process design. The
lack of analysis of actual influents led to design change in the treatment facilities,
substantial variation orders and project cost over-run for the Shijiazhuang waste water
treatment plant.

The Bank financial covenants should be developed based on realistic projections of
financial needs of utility companies. The requirements for debt coverage ratio should
have been dropped (1.3 was required under the legal agreement) since it is not a relevant
issue during the project implementation that falls into the grace period of debt
repayments. Furthermore, it actually inflated tariff revenue requirements beyond the level
of full cost-recovery that was defined in another financial covenant. Another example
was the set of full cost-recovery covenants. They were overly stringent since income
statement items were mixed up with cash statement items without due consideration on
inter- relation of these different accounting items (such as relation between depreciation
charges, and debt services or working capital): thus, it is very difficult for any utility
company to fully comply with these ill-designed covenants. Some of them were rectified




                                              22

by the last Bank supervision team and official amendments were made in legal
documents.

Annual financial performance review exercise, which was set-forth in the legal
document, was an effective tool in improving utility companies' capacity in financial
planning and tariff calculations. While consultants developed financial projection models
under the TA component, serious annual follow-on dialogues and hands-on training by a
Bank financial analyst was required over three years afterwards to enable utility
companies' finance staff to fully utilize these models. These modeling helped utility
companies and municipal governments to expeditiously prepare accurate tariff
adjustment proposals for legislative approval.

Upfront equity investment by local governments can be an effective form of subsidies for
public water utilities provided that utility companies are managed efficiently. It is a well-
targeted and clearly-defined fiscal transfer mechanism. Under the Project, a significant
portion of the cost was provided in the form of equity by the municipal governments (for
the portion of local costs). The highest ratio of debt to equity was 51:48 for TWWC. The
debt financing portion of the project cost was limited only to 25% for TWSC and
HWWC. Since municipal governments do not require dividend payments, the cost of
capital to water utility companies is quite low; thus it has become de facto subsidy. It has
also enabled most of the water utility companies to meet stringent financial covenants set
forth in the legal documents. In parallel, management efficiency of water utilities was
improved under the institutional improvement TA component.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


No substantive issues were raised with regards to the content of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders


N/A




                                              23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
          Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                         millions)
Water Supply - Tangshan                  35.80              37.85           105.73%
Water Supply - Handan                    33.50              48.44           144.60%
Wastewater Management -
                                         88.30             123.20           139.52%
Shijiazhuang
Wastewater Management -
                                         23.80              31.34           131.68%
Tangshan
Wastewater Management -
                                         31.50              30.73           97.56%
Handan
Environmental Pollution Control           0.70                0.00           0.00%
Institutional Development,
                                          7.70                7.19          93.38%
Strengthening and Training


            Total Baseline Cost         221.30             278.74           125.96%

Physical Contingencies                                        0.00           0.00%
                                         22.10

Price Contingencies                                           0.00           0.00%
                                         27.40
              Total Project Costs       270.80             278.74           102.93%
Interest During Construction             21.00              10.16           48.38%
Front-end fee                             1.5                 1.50          100.00%
     Total Financing Required           293.30             290.40           99.01%




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          143.00       119.69       83%
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                  150.00       150.00       100%
and Development




                                            24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Water Supply

Tangshan Water Supply Sub-Component

Satisfactorily completed in accordance to appraisal with a final total cost of RMB 233.84
million compared with the RMB 253.9 million estimated at the time of project
preparation. A new 150,000 m3/d potable water treatment plant has been established with
associated distribution networks. The plant has been put into operation successfully since
the end of 2005. Approximately 570,000 people have directly benefited from the
completion of the plant. Another remarkable achievement for the component is the
closure of self supply water wells. Tangshan Municipal Government had issued an action
plan for the closure of self supply water wells in three phases. First phase closing 81
wells by the end of June 2007, second phase 23 wells by the end of 2008 and third phase
117 wells by the end of 2010. The first phase of 81 wells has been already completed
allowing a reduction of 8.05 million m3/year of ground water extraction. It is expected
that an additional reduction of 3.14 million m3/year of ground water extraction will be
achieved after completion of the second and third phases by the end of 2010.
Additionally, the new established water treatment plant (WTP) adopted a sludge
dewatering process that reduces pollution loads to water courses.

Handan Water Supply Sub-Component

Satisfactorily completed in accordance to appraisal with a final total cost of RMB 326.1
million compared with the RMB 256.7 million estimated at the time of project preparation.
A 120,000 m3/d potable water treatment plant has been established with associated distribution
networks. The plant has been put in operation since April of 2005. Approximately 132,700
people have directly benefited from the completion of the plant. With an enhanced water supply,
Handan Municipal Government was able to close 108 self supply water wells that allowed a
reduction of 1.7 million m3/year of groundwater extraction. The component has also renovated
the distribution networks (older than 30 year), reducing leak rate of water distribution.
Additionally, the treatment process adopted a sludge dewatering process that reduces pollution
loads to water courses.



Wastewater Management

Shijiazhuang Wastewater Sub-Component

Satisfactorily implemented as per appraisal with a completion cost of RMB 695.28 million
compared with the RMB 656.7 million estimated at the time of the project preparation. A 500,000
m3/d wastewater treatment plant (Anoxic/Aerobic activated sludge treatment process) has been
established with associated wastewater collection networks. These facilities have been put into
operation since the end of 2005. Approximately 1.03 million people have directly benefited from
the completion of the plant. The design capacity of the plant for COD removal was 73,000
tons/year. The WWTP has removed 95,300 tons COD in 2006 and 73,600 in 2007, reaching or


                                              25

exceeding design capacity both in 2006 and 2007. This contributed substantially to reduce
pollution loads and improve water quality in downstream receiving water bodies. Also, the plant
introduced an energy recovery technology within the sludge digestion line which allowed
recuperating a total of 9,827,625 MJ that are re-used for plant operation with additional savings
on operational expenses.

Tangshan Wastewater Sub-Component

Satisfactorily implemented in accordance to the appraisal with a completion cost of RMB 158.0
million compared to the 158.9 million estimated at the time of project preparation. A 120,000
m3/d wastewater treatment plant (Anoxic/Aerobic activated sludge treatment process) and a
60,000 m3/d wastewater reclamation plant (WWRP) have been established with associated
wastewater collecting and distribution networks. The WWTP has been put in operation since the
end of 2005 while the WWRP started its operations by the end of 2007. Approximately 395,600
people have directly benefited from the completion of this component.               The designed
contaminants removal capacity of the WWTP is: (i) 8,541 tons/year of BOD; (ii) 13,359 tons/year
of COD; and (iii) 11,826 tons/year of SS. In 2007, the WWTP has actually removed 11,535 tons
of BOD, 24,074 tons of COD and 17,881 tons of SS, higher than the design capacity. The
operation of the WWTP has substantially improved the water quality of the receiving water
course, Qinglong River which was severely polluted, contributing to change its categorization
from a sewage open canal to a Class V water body lined with green trees along the banks and
with recreational & leisure areas enjoyed from town people. WWRP has been supplying
reclaimed wastewater to the close power plant as cooling water, contributing to reduce the
amount of treated wastewater discharged into water courses and allowing saving 21.9 million
m3/year of precious fresh water. Additionally, Tangshan WWTP adopted a sustainable sludge
management that through an indoor sludge composting process produces complex fertilizer
which, well-accepted by farmers, is sold in the local market for agriculture purposes.

Handan Wastewater Sub-Component

Satisfactorily implemented in accordance to the appraisal with a completion cost of RMB 222.7
million compared to the RMB 222.0 million estimated at the time of project preparation. A
100,000 m3/d wastewater treatment plant has been established with associated wastewater
collecting networks. The plant has been put in operation since July of 2004. Approximately
450,000 people have directly benefited from the completion of the plant. The operation of WWTP
has substantially contributed to reduce pollution loads and improve water quality of the receiving
water course, Qing River, with an estimated annual removal average of 5,520 tons of BOD, 8,460
tons of COD and 5,240 tons of SS. Handan WWTP has been also pumping 10.95 million m3/year
of treated wastewater to upstream of Qing River for landscaping purposes.

Industrial Pollution Control


A detailed Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP) study was completed by a consultant
through the use of a Japanese Grant (US$ 0.36 million). The plan covered:

    1. Development of a discharge licensing and permitting system for discharges of industrial
        wastewater to sewerage systems in the project cities of Shijiazhuang, Handan and
        Tangshan;
    2. Development of effective industrial wastewater monitoring in the project cities;




                                                26

    3. Development of time bound action plans for control of industrial wastewater discharges
         within the catchments of critical surface water systems affecting the urban water quality
         and water resources of the project cities;
    4. Initiation of a programme of water conservation and cleaner production within industry in
         the project cities.

The IPCAP has been transferred to three project cities and related authorities. Project cities have
established, respectively, time-bound IPCAPs based on targets to reduce significantly industrial
pollution from paper making, chemical, ferrous metallurgy and pharmaceutical industries by
2010. Currently, these IPCAPs are in progress under the management of Hebei Environmental
Protection Bureau and other government authorities. Municipal government of Shijiazhuang has
issued a three year program for resettlement of pivot industrial enterprises under monitoring and
controlling ([2008]63, SG), planning resettlement of 12 industrial enterprises in 2008, 5 in 2009
and 31 in 2010, and appointed Shijiazhuang Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau to
monitor and control the pollution load from industrial enterprises. It has been progressing well,
and as a result, in August 2008, the quality of influent to new built WWTP has been greatly
improved.

Institutional Strengthening and Training


Institutional capacity building and training were implemented in two TA packages:

    ·    Institutional Strengthening ("Package A"); and

    ·    Design Review Advisory and Construction Management ("Package B").

Both TA packages have been implemented by HPMO, three Municipal PMOs and five
Implementing Agencies and achieved original objectives.

(a) TA-Package A

With the technical assistance provided through the advisory services of the Package A, the 5
public utility entities, three wastewater enterprises in Shijiazhuang, Handan and Tangshan, and
two water supply enterprises in Handan and Tangshan, have been successfully reformed from
essentially governmental agencies to autonomous, market-driven and well operating companies,
and are expected to achieve full cost recovery in near future.

(b) TA-Package B

TA-Package B has been designed as a broadly based technical support package for capacity
building and training on project management for HPMO, Municipal PMOs, Implementing
Agencies and local construction supervision firms. This package covered design review, WB
project implementation rules and procedures on procurement, contracts management and
construction supervision. The advisory services provided through Package B resulted to be very
effective in ensuring compliance with Bank rules and procedures during the implementation and
contributed noticeably to the satisfactory execution of physical components.




                                                 27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Project Level Analysis

Financial Rates of Return
Project level financial rates of return (FIRRs) were reevaluated for the water supply
components of TWSC and HWSC and the wastewater components of TWWC, HWWC
and SWWC under the following major assumptions:

(1) The project life of the water supply and wastewater components is 30 years from
    2001 to 2030;

(2) Incremental operating revenues and operating costs are prorated based upon the ratio
    of the capacity of each plant related to the project to the overall capacity of each
    entity (please see the entity level analysis below for the entity specific assumptions of
    water supply volume, average tariff, wastewater volume treated, etc.);

(3) Water and Wastewater tariffs for residential customers will be increased as follows;
    and

                                Table 1: Tariffs for Residential Customers/1

                                                  (Y/m3)

                            2007        2008          2009           2010     2011     2012


TWSC                        1.69         1.69          1.69          2.03      2.03    2.03


HWSC                        1.85         1.85          2.28          2.28      2.28    2.96


TWWC                        0.90         0.90          1.11          1.11      1.11    1.33


HWWC                        0.70         0.70          0.70          0.88      0.88    0.88


SWWC                        0.60         0.80          0.80          1.20      1.20    1.20


/1 tariff at the end of year


(4) The collection rate for HWWC and SWWC will improve as follows.
                                  Table 2: Collection Rate of HWWC and SWWC


                              2007         2008           2009         2010      2011    2012


      HWWC                     67%          72%           75%           80%      85%     86%


      SWWC                     85%          85%           85%           90%      90%     90%




                                                     28

(5) Government subsidies are not included in this calculation.

The results are summarized in Table 3, showing that the FIRRs for all the components are
above the weighted average cost of capital which is estimated in the range of 4.0%3. Key
to these calculations is that the wastewater tariffs will be increased as planned, and the
collection rate of HWWC and SWWC will be improved, as shown in Tables 1&2. The
FIRRs evaluated for the water supply components at appraisal are also shown in Table 3.
The FIRRs for the wastewater components were not evaluated at appraisal.


   Table 3: Financial and Economic Rate of Returns (FIRRs and EIRR)

                        FIRR                            EIRR

                  ICR          PAD                ICR         PAD


TWSC                 12.6%        9.8%           18.6%        14.4%


HWSC                  8.4%        8.8%           12.3%        12.9%


TWWC                  9.8%       -                  -           -


HWWC                  7.2%       -                  -           -


SWWC                  7.6%       -                  -           -



Average Incremental Financial Cost

The average incremental financial cost (AIFC) was reevaluated for the two water supply
components and the three wastewater components under the following assumptions:
(1) The WACC is 4% for all the project components;
(2) The same assumptions used in the FIRR calculation are applied for water production
    volume, wastewater treated volume, and project and operation costs.
All the AIFCs revaluated at ICR are lower than the ones estimated at appraisal except the
AIFC for SWWC, which is slightly higher than the AIFC at appraisal, but well within the
current average tariff level of Y0.94 per m3 for SWWC.




3The 4% WACC was estimated by the utility companies. The WACCs at appraisal ranged from 6.7% for
SWWC to 7.0% for HWWC.




                                              29

Table 4: Average Incremental Financial Cost

                  (Y/m3)

                         AIFC

                   ICR           PAD


TWSC                  1.24            1.66


HWSC                  1.11            1.34


TWWC                  1.05            1.25


HWWC                  0.51            0.73


SWWC                  0.81            0.76



Economic Rates of Return
The economic rates of return (EIRRs) were reevaluated for the water supply components
of TWSC and HWSC under the following assumptions:
(1) The project life is 30 years from 2001 to 2030;
(2) The same relationship between actual water tariffs and the willingness to pay which
    was found at appraisal will hold over the project life;
(3) Financial operating costs are economic costs; and
(4) Taxes are excluded from total project cost.
The EIRRs are calculated at 18.6% for TWSC and 12.3% for HWSC, both of which are
above the benchmark rate of 10% for economic analysis.

B. Entity Level Analysis

The financial performance of the five utility companies was reviewed and the financial
projections were conducted to find whether or not each entity complied with and will be
able to comply with the financial covenants: the cost recovery ratio of at least 1.0 and the
debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3. The major assumptions for each company such
as population served, water supply volume, tariff, wastewater volume treated, etc. are
shown in the summary table for each company below. Government subsidies are counted
as revenue in the financial ratios calculation

Tangshan Water Supply Company (TWSC)

TWSC was established in 1951, serving the population of 801,000 in Tangshan with
1,300 staff. It generated operating revenue of Y 150 million and made net income of Y1
million in 2007. It has a strong capital structure with a debt to equity ratio of 23:77 at the
end of 2007. TWSC implemented many institutional reforms during the implementation
of the Bank project, and became a model water supply company which is well run by an




                                              30

experienced management team with the strong support from the Tangshan municipal
government.

Table 5 summarizes the results of TWSC's financial performance and projections. TWSC
has complied with both the cost recovery ratio covenant and the debt service coverage
ratio covenant since it first reported its results to the Bank in 2005. Its water sales volume
which had decreased until 2005 again increased to 70 million m3 in 2007 from 67 million
m3 in 2006 after the Tangshan municipal government implemented a program to close
self supplied wells. Considering that TWSC can keep the water sales volume at the 2007
level, TWSC will be able to meet the financial covenants in the future with the tariff
increases to keep pace with the inflation rate.

                                     Table 5: Summary of TWSC's Financial Performance and Projections

                                            2005         2006       2007         2008         2009      2010   2011    2012

Key Operating Indicators

Population Served ('000)                      800        801         801          801          802      802     803     803

Water Sales Volume (million m3)               67          67         70            70           70       70      70      70

Unaccounted for water                        29%         28%        24%           21%          21%      21%     21%     21%

Collection Efficiency Rate                   97%         97%       100%          100%         100%     100%    100%    100%


Key Financial Indicators

Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)             1.89        2.15       2.15          2.15         2.15     2.58    2.58    2.58


Total Operating Revenue (Y million)          124         140        150           150          150      180     180     180

Operating Income                               0           5           8            7             3      29      25      20

Subsidy                                        -           -           -            -             -       -       -       -

Net Income                                     1           1           1            0           (2)      16      14      12


Internal Cash Generation                      18          27         30            29           25       43      40      37

Capital Expenditures                          67          43           5           15           15       15      15      15

Debt Service Payment                           -          17         20            19           19       18      17      16


Total Assets                                 408         431        449           442          428      431     432     431

Long-Term Debt                                83          99         97            83           70       56      43      29

Equity                                       306         309        327           327          325      341     355     367


Cost Recovery Ratio                           1.0         1.0         1.1          1.1          1.0      1.1     1.1     1.1

Debt Service Coverage Ratio                   0.0         1.5         1.5          1.5          1.4      2.4     2.4     2.3

L-T Debt/(L-T Debt + Equity)                 21%         24%        23%           20%          18%      14%     11%      7%




Handan Water Supply Company (HWSC)

HWSC was established in 1958, serving the population of 1,196,000 in Handan with
1,100 staff. It generated operating revenue of Y 115 million and reported a net loss of
Y12 million in 2007. In addition to the Bank loan, HWSC borrowed around half of its
long-term debt from commercial banks. The debt from commercial banks at one time
underwent the debt restructuring to defer and level principal repayments. The amount of
debt is considered within a manageable level as shown in a debt to equity ratio of 48:52
at the end of 2007. HWSC's water sales volume substantially reduced from 54 million
m3 in 2005 to 48 million m3 in 2006 due to a tariff increase and increased use of self
supplied water. However, after the Handan municipal government implemented a
program to close self supplied wells, HWSC recovered its water sales volume to the
previous level.



                                                                 31

Table 6 summarizes the results of HWSC's financial performance and projections.
HWSC did not comply with both the cost recovery ratio covenant and the debt service
coverage ratio covenant in 2006 due to the substantial decrease in water sales volume and
delayed implementation of tariff increase4. However, it complied with both covenants in
2007 as a result of the full effect of the tariff increase and the government action of
closing self supplied wells. HWSC planned to implement the tariff increase of 23% at the
beginning of 2008. However, due to the inflationary environment in China, it was
delayed and will likely not be implemented until the second half of 2009. Consequently,
it is projected that HWSC will not be able to comply with the debt service coverage ratio
covenant in 2008 and 2009. After implementation of the proposed tariff increase, HWSC
will be back in compliance with the covenants in 2010 and onwards.

                                     Table 6: Summary of HWSC's Financial Performance and Projections

                                            2005         2006       2007         2008         2009      2010    2011    2012

Key Operating Indicators

Population Served ('000)                    1,152       1,174      1,196         1,219        1,242     1,266   1,290   1,314

Water Sales Volume (million m3)               54          48         57            58           59        60      61      62

Unaccounted for Water                        16%         16%        15%          15%           15%      15%      15%     15%

Collection Efficiency Rate                   94%         96%        96%          96%           96%      96%      96%     96%


Key Financial Indicators

Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)             1.65        1.81       2.08          2.08         2.32      2.56    2.56    3.33


Total Operating Revenue (Y million)           84          80        115          117           132      148      151     199

Operating Income                              56          61         63            72           77        82      89      95

Subsidy                                        -           -           -            -             -        -       -       -

Net Income                                    (9)        (34)       (12)          (36)         (24)      (11)    (13)     20


Internal Cash Generation                      28          18         52            45           56        66      62      94

Capital Expenditures                          61          53         28            65            2         2       2       2

Debt Service Payment                          21          30         41            57           52        51      49      46


Total Assets                                 688         672        651          642           588      530      473     462

Long-Term Debt                               278         273        248          263           224      185      146     109

Equity                                       292         273        268          236           213      201      188     208


Cost Recovery Ratio                           1.0         0.8        1.0           1.0          1.0       1.1     1.0     1.2

Debt Service Coverage Ratio                   1.3         0.6        1.3           0.8          1.1       1.3     1.3     2.1

L-T Debt(L-T Debt + Equity)                  49%         50%        48%          53%           51%      48%      44%     34%




Tangshan Wastewater Company (TWWC)

TWWC was established in 1997 to take over the responsibility for sewerage and drainage
operations which had been undertaken by the Tangshan Construction Bureau.
Subsequently, TWWC implemented the Bank project and the ADB project. It now owns
and operates the sewer network and treatment plants with capacity of 185,000 m3 per day
with 1,200 staff. It serves two adjacent counties outside the service area of TWSC, which
accounts for around 5% of its total operating revenue. Achieving the collection rate of
96%, TWWC is considered as a model wastewater company which is well run by an


4It was implemented on October 1, 2006.




                                                                 32

experienced management team with the strong support from the Tangshan municipal
government. TWWC generated operating revenue of Y97 million and made net income
of Y1 million in 2007. All the debt service payments in connection with the ADB loan
have been made using subsidies from the Tangshan municipal government. This
arrangement will continue until the ADB loan is retired. The debt to equity ratio
including the ADB loan was 51:49 at the end of 2007.

Table 7 summarizes the results of TWWC's financial performance and projections.
TWWC complied with the financial covenants in 2007. It planned to implement the tariff
increase of 23% in April 2008. However, due to the inflationary environment in China, it
was delayed and will likely not be implemented until the second half of 2009. With this
tariff increase implemented as proposed, TWWC will be able to comply with the
financial covenants in 2010 and onwards.

                                          Table 7: Summary of TWWC's Financial Performance and Projections

                                                  2005           2006          2007           2008           2009    2010    2011    2012

Key Operating Indicators

Population Served ('000)                          1,127         1,144          1,161          1,178         1,196    1,214   1,232   1,251

Water Supplied from WSC (million m3)                73            72             75             75             75      76      76      76

Wastewater Volume Treated (million m3)               90             89            93             93            93       93      93      93

Collection Efficiency Rate                         93%           96%            93%           94%            94%      94%     94%     94%


Key Financial Indicators

Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)                   0.99           0.99          0.99           0.99          1.22     1.22    1.22    1.46


Total Operating Revenue (Y million)                 79            96             97             98           109      121     121     145

Operating Income                                      2            (1)           (2)           (13)            (8)     (0)     (3)     18

Net Income                                            4             1             1            (16)           (10)     (2)     (4)     12


Internal Cash Generation                            35            47             46             42             47      54      50      65

Debt Service Payment                                17            33             32             40             40      40      40      40
         1/
Subsidy                                             16            17             17             17             18      18      18      19


Total Assets                                       534           570            609           759            739      772     757     757

Long-Term Debt                                     286           294            306           310            289      267     243     219

Equity                                             240           264            290           434            432      485     492     515


Cost Recovery Ratio                                  1.2          1.1            1.1            1.0            1.0     1.1     1.0     1.1

Debt Service Coverage Ratio                          2.1          1.4            1.4            1.0            1.2     1.4     1.3     1.6

L-T Debt / (L-T Debt + Equity)                     54%           53%            51%           42%            40%      35%     33%     30%

1/ The amount equivalent to the debt service payment for the ADB loan has been and will be provided as subsidy.




Handan Wastewater Company (HWWC)

HWWC was established in 1999 to implement the Bank project. Subsequently, it took
over the responsibility of sewerage and drainage operations which had been undertaken
by the Handan Construction Bureau. HWWC now owns and operates the sewer network
and a treatment plant with capacity of 100,000 m3 per day with 420 staff. HWWC
generated operating revenue of Y53 million and made net income of Y11 million in
2007, including subsidies of Y18 million in its revenue. It has a strong capital structure as
shown in a debt to equity ratio of 27:73 at the end of 2007.




                                                                            33

Table 8 summarizes the results of HWWC's financial performance and projections.
HWWC implemented a tariff increase of 74% on October 1, 2006. Following the tariff
increase, HWWC experienced a huge decline in the collection rate from 80% in 2005 to
67% in 2007. Although HWWC have taken several measures, it has not yet succeeded in
recovering the rate to the level prior to the tariff increase. It continues to need
government subsidy to comply with the financial covenants although its reliance on
subsidy will decrease over time as the collection rate improves and additional tariff
increases are implemented as planned.

                                      Table 8: Summary of HWWC's Financial Performance and Projections

                                              2005        2006       2007         2008         2009     2010    2011    2012

Key Operating Indicators

Population Served ('000)                     1,152        1,174     1,196        1,219        1,242     1,266   1,290   1,314

Water Supplied from WSC (million m3)            54          48        57           58           59        60      61      62

Wastewater Volume Treated (million m3)           50          49        51           52           53        54      55      55

Collection Efficiency Rate                     80%        78%        67%          72%          75%       80%     85%     86%


Key Financial Indicators

Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)               0.46        0.80      0.80         0.80         0.80      1.00    1.00    1.00


Total Operating Revenue (Y million)             40          41        53           59           62        65      82      83

Operating Income                                (6)         (4)        5            4             5        6      18      16

Net Income                                      (6)          6        11            1             3        3      12      12


Internal Cash Generation                        10          27        32           29           29        29      37      36

Capital Expenditures                            60           6         9           42             -        -       -       -

Debt Service Payment                            (0)         13        14           22           21        20      19      18

Subsidy                                          -          17        18            5             5        5       5       5


Total Assets                                   312        306        387          416          406       397     398     399

Long-Term Debt                                 107        100         95          117          102        88      73      59

Equity                                         178        180        255          267          269       273     285     297


Cost Recovery Ratio                            0.9         1.3       1.5          1.1           1.2      1.2     1.4     1.3

Debt Service Coverage Ratio                      -         2.1       2.3          1.3           1.4      1.4     1.9     1.9

L-T Debt / (L-T Debt + Equity)                 37%        36%        27%          30%          28%       24%     20%     16%




Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company (SWWC)

SWWC was established in 1997 to be responsible for wastewater operations in
Shijiazhuang. All the sewerage and drainage operations that had been undertaken by the
Municipal Management Division under the Public Utility Administration Bureau were
transferred to SWWC in 1999 before the Bank project. SWWC owns and operates the
sewer network and a treatment plant with capacity of 500,000 m3 per day with 900 staff.
SWWC reports to Shijiazhuang Construction Bureau. Wastewater tariffs were introduced
in 1996 and collected by Shijiazhuang Water Supply Company (SWSC). The tariff
collection rate remained low below 60% for a long time largely because a single billing
system for water and wastewater charges was not introduced until recently. It was not
until 2005 that a single bill for domestic customers was implemented, while a separate
bill is still maintained for other customers. This results mainly from the unique regulatory
arrangement in Shijiazhuang where SWSC reports to a different regulatory body, the
Shijiazhuang Urban Management Bureau from SWWC's. As a result, the tariff collection
has been the major issue for SWWC. Although it improved substantially from 60% in



                                                                 34

2005 to 85% in 2007, SWWC has to further improve the collection efficiency to put it
into a financially sustainable position. It has a strong capital structure as shown in a debt
to equity ratio of 27:73 at the end of 2007.

Table 9 summarizes the results of SWWC's financial performance and projections.
SWWC complied with the financial covenants in 2005 and 2006. However, as it started
treatment operations fully in 2007, its financial situation deteriorated substantially.
SWWC fell into a net loss of Y36 million in 2007 from net profit of Y18 million in 2006.
It received subsidy of Y43 million in 2007 to meet the debt service payment. To improve
this difficult financial situation, SWWC has taken several measures to improve the
collection rate, and has implemented a tariff increase from Y0.66 per m3 to Y0.94 per m3
on January 1, 2008. Although those measures helped improve SWWC's financial
situation, SWWC will need government subsidy until it implements the next tariff
increase planned in 2010. It is a challenging task to maintain the collection rate while
achieving the tariff increase.

                                      Table 9: Summary of SWWC's Financial Performance and Projections

                                              2005        2006       2007         2008         2009      2010     2011     2012

Key Operating Indicators

Population Served ('000)                     1,720        1,746     1,772        1,798        1,824     1,850    1,876    1,903

Water Supplied from WSC (million m3)          115         111         112          113         114        115      116      117

Wastewater Volume Treated (million m3)           42          40       130          131          132       133      134      136

Collection Efficiency Rate                    60%         79%         85%          85%         85%        90%      90%      90%


Key Financial Indicators

Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)               0.66        0.66       0.66         0.90         0.90      1.35     1.35     1.35


Total Operating Revenue (Y million)            75           86        135          129         130        209      210      212

Operating Income                                 7          17        (17)         (30)         (34)      34        29       23

Net Income                                       8          18        (36)         (48)         (49)      21        18       15


Internal Cash Generation                       23           33        49            35           31       100       94       89

Capital Expenditures                          309         166         213          100         100          -        -        -

Debt Service Payment                             -          20        64            62           60       58        55       53

Subsidy                                          -          20        43            27           28         -        -        -


Total Assets                                1,264       1,510       1,397        1,360       1,397      1,333    1,269    1,206

Long-Term Debt                                272         347         365          321         276        231      187      142

Equity                                        809         953         966          919         869        891      909      924


Cost Recovery Ratio                             1.1         1.2        0.9          1.0          1.0       1.3      1.2      1.2

Debt Service Coverage Ratio                     0.0         1.6        0.8          1.0          1.0       1.7      1.7      1.7

L-T Debt / (L-T Debt + Equity)                25%         27%         27%          26%         24%        21%      17%      13%




                                                                  35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
           Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Mingyuan Fan             Sanitary Engineer                  EASCS
Yiren Feng               Environmental Spec.                EASCS
Vellet E. Fernandes      Program Assistant                 EASUR
David I                  Sr Financial Management Specia    EAPCO
Zhentu Liu               Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPCO
Rowena J. Martinez       Consultant                        EASUR
Margaret Png             Sr Counsel                         LEGES
Claudio Purificato       Consultant                        EASUR
Haiyan Wang              Finance Officer                   LOADM
Kenneth Chee Hoong Wong Consultant                         EASUR
Songling Yao             Social Development Spec.           EASCS
Ji You                   Urban Specialist                   EASCS
Youlan Zou               Consultant                         EASCS
Masato Sawaki            Consultant                        EASUR
Hubert Jenny             Sr. Municipal Engineer            EASUR



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                 69.06
  FY98                                                                 61.66
  FY99                                                                173.29
  FY00                                      39                        183.83
  FY01                                                                  0.00
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00

                        Total:              39                        487.84
Supervision/ICR



                                         36

FY97                      0.00
FY98                      0.00
FY99                      0.97
FY00                      0.00
FY01               15    73.10
FY02               14    77.96
FY03               12    74.14
FY04               10    54.32
FY05               11    57.97
FY06               14    65.60
FY07               10    66.27
FY08               10    51.86
FY09                1     0.00

        Total:     97    522.19




                 37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

None




                                    38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

None




                                  39

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Government Support

Hebei Provincial Government (HPG) established high level Leading Group headed by executing
vice-governor of HPG, to oversee and coordinate the project implementation, and to take
decisions for important issues related to the project. HPG also set up the Hebei Project
Management Office (HPMO) for overall project management. Municipal level Leading Groups
(MLGs) headed by mayors and Municipal Project Management Offices (MPMOs) were also set
up in three project cities, Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan. MLGs and MPMOs were in
charge of coordinating and overseeing subcomponents of the three municipalities.

During the project implementation, all of the domestic approvals, such as detail design review,
construction permit and related custom clearance formalities went smoothly with the support of
various levels of authorities and did not result in any delay to project implementation.

Project Management Organizations

A three level project management system, Hebei Provincial project management office (HPMO),
Municipal project office (for three cities, Handan, Shijiazhuang and Tangshan) and
Implementation Agencies (IA) with the assistance of Technical Assistance (TA) Package B
consultants, has been set up, which was proved during the entire project implementation and by
actual project output, to be very effective for the success of the project. TA-Package B consultant
has also assigned three corresponding levels of consultants resident to HPMO, Municipal PMOs
and IAs in helping capability building on project management and assured the successful project
implementation.

Starting from the commencement of the Project, HPMO had set up various project management
system and report forms, covering project administration for quality assurance, measurement &
payment, variation order approval and implementation schedule; and pinpoint the responsibilities
for different levels of management organization, such as (a) all the Bidding Documents and Bid
Evaluation Reports subject to review by TA-Package B consultants and approved by HPMO prior
to submitting to WB, (b) all the payment and disbursement subject to review by TA-Package B
consultants and approved by Municipal PMOs and HPMO, and (c) all the variations subject to
review by TA-Package B consultants prior to approval by Municipal PMOs (for variation cost
less than RMB 20,000.00) and HPMO (for variation cost exceeding RMB 20,000.00).

HPMO, with the assistance of TA-Package B consultants, had held quite a few trainings for
personnel of Municipal PMOs and IAs regarding to the rules and procedures of the WB for
procurement planning, procurement procedures, contract management and construction
supervision.

During the project implementation, HPMO, with the assistance of TA-Package B consultants, had
kept tracking and monitoring construction progress, cost and quality. After discerning loan
savings of quite an amount, HPMO had timely organized Municipal PMOs and IAs to prepare
Mid-term Adjustment Project Component (MTAPC) and submit to the WB for approval and
apply for extension of Loan Closing Date, facilitating the implementation of MTAPC.




                                                  40

Costs and Financing

Total completion cost for the project is estimated at US$ 290.4 million (based on interchange rate
of 1:7.81, US$ to RMB, dated January 1, 2007), representing 99.1% of the projected cost of US$
293.3 million at the Appraisal, US$ 2.91 million less than the projected cost. Among them, US$
150 million comes from WB loan and US$ 140.4 million from counter-part financing. WB Loan
financing rate for the project is 51.65% and counter-part financing of 48.35% versus WB Loan
financing rate of. 51.1% and counter-part financing of 48.9% at the Appraisal (Refer Annex-3 for
details).

The counter-part financing comprised two parts, fiscal allocation from Municipal Governments
and enterprise self-financing. All the counter-part financing had been come to hand timely with
the government supports.

No other fund had been involved during the project implementation, except for a Grant from
Japan of US$ 0.36 million financed for Industrial Pollution control component.

Engineering Design

Engineering design and technical bidding documents (BD) had been all prepared by top design
institutions in China. Most of the engineering design and technical BDs had been satisfactory.
However, some of technical BDs were prepared based on primary designs and not detailed
enough, resulting in unnecessary and preventable variations during construction.

Project Procurement

The procurement for the project had been implemented strictly in accordance with the
procurement procedures of WB. As proposed during the project preparation stage, China
International Tendering Company (CITC) and CNCCC International Tendering Co., Ltd.
(CNCCCITC) had been retained as the procurement agencies (PA) for all ICB contract packages
and China Machinery Co., Ltd. (CMC) for all NCB contract packages. All of the three PAs have
been charged with procurement for many projects financed by WB and quite familiar with
procurement procedures of WB. Commercial bid documents were prepared by PAs with the
technical bidding documents prepared by design institutes (DI) & IAs. After review by TA
Package B consultant team for both commercial and technical bidding documents, the final
version of combined bidding documents (subject to prior review) would be approved by HPMO
and submitted to obtain approval from WB prior to tendering. All the bid evaluation reports
(subject to prior review) prepared by PAs had also been routinely reviewed by TA Package B
consultant team, approved by HPMO and set up public inquiry on internet by PAs prior to
submitting for WB approval. All the contracts (subject to prior review) had only been awarded
after obtaining approval from WB. There was no mis-procurement occurred for the project. The
procurement of the project was considered successful, fair and equitable.

Construction Management

Construction of the five infrastructural component had been implemented in accordance with WB
project implementation rules and procedures on contract management and construction
supervision by five IAs under the supports of local supervision firms and TA-Package B
consultants. The construction workmanship of all the five infrastructural components was
generally satisfactory.




                                                41

Technical Assistance

Four Technical Assistance (TA) packages had been implemented with three financed by WB loan
and one, TA-Package C, by the Grant from Japan.

-       TA-Package A, Institutional Strengthening, was implemented by Montgomery Watson in
accordance with TOR. The package started in February 2001 and completed July 2004. Major
tasks of TA-Package A consulting team were to help five IAs to reform from essentially
governmental agencies to autonomous, market-driven and well operating companies with
associated training (refer to Section 3.8 of this reports for the details of work conducted by TA-
Package A consulting team)..

-       TA-Package B, Design Review Advisory and Construction Management, was
implemented by Montgomery Watson in accordance with TOR. The package started in January
2001 and scheduled for completion by the end of 2008. Major tasks of TA-Package B consultant
were to provide consulting services for project management, procurement and construction
supervision, including review of engineering design of all five infrastructural components. All
the bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and cost overrun reports had been reviewed by TA-
Package B consultant team before HPMO submitting to WB for approval. All the variation and
price adjustment applications (over RMB 20,000) and disbursement applications from IAs were
subject to review by TA-Package B consultant and then approval by HPMO. To match with three
level project management organization system, TA-Package B consultant team had assigned three
consultants resident to HPMO, three consultants resident to each of three Municipal PMOs and
five consultants to each of the five IAs, provided full supports for project management and
implementation with associate trainings, achieving significant capacity building for the staff of
HPMO, Municipal PMOs and IAs on WB project implementation rules and procedures on
procurement, contracts management and construction supervision and ensuring successful
implementation of the project.

-       TA-Package C, Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP) Study was
implemented by Mott MacDonald using Japanese Grant (US$ 0.36 million). Refer to Section
2.2.7 of this report for details of implementation of the package.

-       SWW/TA1, Sewage Sludge Disposal Study, Shijiazhuang Wastewater Component, was
implemented by Poyry Environment GmbH. It was put in as a Mid-term Adjustment Project
Component (MTAPC) upon approval by WB dated March 10, 2006. The Study was completed
by the end of June 2008 and proposed a most feasible sludge management concept allowing the
City of Shijiazhuang to ensure a sustainable ultimate disposal of sludge from the two existing
municipal WWTPs.



Institutional Reform: Institutional Development and Managerial Sustainability

In order to promote smooth progress of the project, Hebei Provincial Government (HPG)
established a high level Leading Group, which is led by a vice-governor of HPG, to oversee,
coordinate and solve major issues related to the whole project. HPG also set up the Hebei Project
Management Office (HPMO) to coordinate and oversee the preparation and execution of the
whole Project.     Municipal level Leading Groups (MLGs), which are led by mayors, and
Municipal Project Management Offices (MPMOs) were also established in the involved
municipalities- Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan. MLGs and MPMOs are in charge of




                                                 42

coordinating and overseeing the subcomponents falling under their jurisdiction, located in those
cities.

For the three wastewater subcomponents, Shijiazhuang, Tangshan and Handan Wastewater
Companies (WWC) were set up during the preparation of the Project in compliance with water
and wastewater sector commercialization required by the central government and WB. The
Wastewater Company in each of the cities acted as implementing agencies of the respective
wastewater subcomponents, and took charge of construction, operating and maintenance, and
management of all wastewater facilities in the respective city.

For the two water supply subcomponents (in Handan and Tangshan), the already existing Water
Supply Companies (WSC) in each of the cities acted as implementing agencies of and were
responsible for construction management, as well as production, operation and maintenance,
consumer service and administration of the city water supply systems.

(a) Shijiazhuang Wastewater Company (SWWC)

SWWC was formed in 1997 to act as the implementing agency for the Project. Although it is a
limited liability company which was set up based on Company Law, like many wastewater
companies in other cities in China, it did not operate as a genuine enterprise in its early years, but
instead followed the government institutional model with only limited management and financial
autonomy. Since the commencement of the Project, and especially since 2002, it has made
significant progress towards commercialization. Currently, SWWC is a financially and
managerially autonomous wastewater company with its financing coming from wastewater
charges. The institutional development process has involved:

-        SWWC has taken over the operation of the existing wastewater treatment plants and the
         sewerage system of the city.

-        Wastewater charges are collected on the water bill and agencies who are in charge of
         collecting wastewater charges have remitted these funds directly to SWWC since January
         2002.

-        Wastewater tariffs were increased from 0.20 yuan/m3 in 1998 to 0.80 yuan/m3 and 1.0
         yuan/m3 in 2008 for residential and industrial respectively. The current income collection
         rate is reached to 85%.

-        The enterprise accounting system was adopted instead of the institutional accounting
         system from 2003 onwards.

-        Computerised enterprise accounting, budgetary and financial management systems have
         been introduced.

-        A comprehensive commercialized management system has been built and is further being
         strengthened. The internal management systems have been strengthened, work efficiency,
         service quality and employee's performance has been enhanced.

-        Currently, Qiaodong and Qiaoxi WWTPs are operating well and have made gradual
         operating management improvements during the course of the Project. Both WWTPs
         regularly meet required effluent standards for the treated wastewater




                                                 43

(b) Handan Wastewater Company (HWWC)

HWWC was formed in 1999 to act as the implementing agency for the Project. Although it is a
limited liability company which was set up based on Company Law, like many wastewater
companies in other cities in China, it did not operate as a genuine enterprise in its early years, but
instead followed the government institutional model with only limited management and financial
autonomy. Handan municipality has demonstrated commitment to waster sector
commercialization throughout the project and since 2004 HWWC has been a financially and
managerially autonomous wastewater company with its financing coming from wastewater
charges. The institutional development process has involved:

-       Transfer of assets. When HWWC was built, the old sewerage assets which were operated
        by Handan Municipal Engineering Management Department were injected into the
        Company as registered capital. After this, assets of Dongjiao WWTP were also
        transferred into HWWC after assessment. Since then, HWWC has been in charge of
        construction, operating, maintenance and management of all wastewater facilities in the
        whole city.

-       Wastewater charges have been collected on the water bill since 2001. Thus, collection
        performance of wastewater charges collected by Water Supply Company is greatly
        increased to a current level of 80%.

-       Agencies who are in charge of collecting wastewater charges have remitted these funds
        directly to HWWC since June 2004.

-       There was no wastewater charges collected before the Project in Handan city.
        Wastewater tariffs were increased from 0.20 yuan/m3 in 1997 to 0.70 yuan/m3 in 2006
        for residential and from 0.3 yuan/m3 in 1997 to 0.9 yuan/m3 in 2006 for industry.

-       The enterprise accounting system has been used since the Company was built. Since then,
        computerised enterprise accounting, budgetary and financial management systems have
        also been introduced.

-       A comprehensive commercialized management system has been built and is further being
        strengthened. The internal management system has been strengthened, work efficiency,
        service quality and employee's performance has been enhanced.

-       Currently, Dongjiao and Xijiao WWTPs are operating well and have made gradual
        operating management improvements during the course of the Project. Both WWTP
        regularly meet required effluent standards for the treated wastewater.

(c) Tangshan Wastewater Company (TWWC)

TWWC was formed in January 1, 1998 to act as the implementing agency for the Project. Its
name was changed to Tangshan Drainage Company in September, 2005. In fact, TWWC is a
financially and managerially autonomous wastewater company with its financing coming from
wastewater charges since the company's formation. The institutional development process has
involved:

-       Transfer of assets. When TWWC was established, the existing three operating WWTPs'
        assets , namely Dongjiao WWTP, Xijiao WWTP and Fengrun WWTP, were injected into



                                                 44

       the Company as registered capital, and at the same time, assets on-going construction of
       Beijiao WWTP were also transferred into the Company. Then, assets of storm sewers and
       drainage sewers which were operated by districts were transferred into the Company in
       January 1, 2000. Since then, TWWC has been in charge of construction, operating,
       maintenance and management of all wastewater facilities in the whole city.

-      Wastewater charges of the residential are collected on the water bill. It has been collected
       by Tangshan Water Supply Co. (TWSC) ever since TTWC was established. TWSC
       remits wastewater charges directly to TWWC each month. The income collection system
       of TWSC is connected with the computer system of TWWC. TWWC can understand the
       situation of customers' paying. There is a collection department in TWWC which is
       responsible for collecting wastewater charges from industry and self-supply users.
       Currently collection performance reaches 90%.

-      Wastewater tariffs were increased from 0.20 yuan/m3 in 1997 to 0.90 yuan/m3 in 2005
       for residential and from 0.32yuan/m3 in 1997 to 1.05 yuan/m3 in 2005 for industry.

-      The enterprise accounting system has been adopted since the Company was established.
       Since then, computerised enterprise accounting, budgetary and financial management
       systems have been introduced.

-      Comprehensive commercialized management system has been built and is further being
       strengthened. The internal management system is being further strengthened, work
       efficiency, service quality and employee's performance is being further enhanced.

-      Currently, the five WWTPs, namely Dongjiao WWTP, Xijiao WWTP, Fengrun WWTP,
       Beijiao WWTP and Xijiao Second Phase WWTP are operating well, have made gradual
       operating management improvements and meet required effluent discharge standards.
       The Company gained the title of advanced enterprise in Tangshan Municipality in 2005,
       2006 and 2007 and the title of advanced enterprise of financial management awarded by
       Hebei Provincial Construction Bureau. Meanwhile, the Company gained the first class
       qualification of environmental protection facilities operation awarded by the State
       Environmental Protection Bureau.

(d) Handan Water Supply Company (HWSC)

HWSC was formed in 1958. In fact, HWSC has been a financially and managerially autonomous
water supply company since the Company was formed; however, institutional development of the
Company has made further significant progress since the commencement of the Project:

-      The Company has made improvements on financial management, operating management,
       technical training, environmental mitigation measures, and so on.

-      Reform of the personnel system, streamlining of staff numbers and the setting of a quota
       of posts have been implemented. At the same time, the Company introduced competitive
       appointment of cadres and workers. The organizational structure of the Company has
       undergone major changes and the overall quality of the Company has improved
       significantly.

-      Managerial and technical staff of the company are trained regularly in a training centre
       owned by the Company. A long-term rolling budget preparation system for operating



                                              45

        management has been established based on future water demand projections.
        Comprehensive computerized management systems have been implemented on financial
        management, human resource management, equipment management, information
        management, customer management system and so on. A geographical information
        system (GIS) has also been introduced and is proving useful in the management of the
        water distribution network. Scheduling of water production and operation of WTPs has
        been automatized.

(e) Tangshan Water Supply Company (TWSC)

TWSC was formed in 1951. In fact, TWSC has been a financially and managerially autonomous
water supply company since the Company was formed; however, institutional development of the
Company has made further significant progress since the commencement of the Project:

-       In order to adapt to a changing external environment, since January 2001, the internal
        organizational structure of the Company has been gradually optimized and functions of
        the departments have been gradually improved and strengthened based on the principal of
        improving service quality and enhancing operating efficiency. For example: setting up an
        enterprise management department to replace the former planning department, and
        setting up a user service center, information management center, laws and regulation
        department, central filing and records department and so on.

-       The Company has introduced a variety of rules and regulations for about 20 activities
        which are related to materials procurement, human resources, financial management,
        safety production and technological progress, and so on. These rules and associated
        procedures strongly promote improved performance and enhance the level of
        management.

During the period of project implementation, a technical assistance package on institutional
development, strengthening and Training has been carried out. It included the following contents:

-       Institutional/managerial component. This includes: (a) development of a company
        strategy, business plans and management information systems (MIS); (b) establishing
        service standards and monitoring performance targets under a more autonomous
        arrangement; and (c)company reorganization and development of human resources
        planning and training programs.

-       Financial strengthening. This included: (a) operationalizing computerized accounting and
        financial reporting systems; (b) developing a financial MIS system; (c) reviewing and
        revising current billing practices to optimize collection efficiency; and (d) developing
        financial training programs.

-       Operation enhancement. This included: (a) identification and implementation of cost
        savings initiatives; (b) preparation and implementation of sludge disposal plans; and (c)
        introduction of modern, cost effective, operations and maintenance equipment, including
        training

A consultant firm (MWH) was hired to assist the implementing agencies to finish the above work
tasks together with the support of HPMO and municipal PMOs and counterpart staff from the
Implementing Agencies. The above major objectives had been achieved when the consulting
contract was closed in 2004. Since then, institutional development of the IAs has continued using



                                                 46

their own resources and management. It is considered the institutional development objectives
set up during the period of project preparation have been achieved in full.

Mid-term Review and Adjustment

During Mid-term Review, HPMO discussed with the Bank Mission, on the issues regarding to the
Mid-term Adjustment Project Component (MTAPC) to utilize total of US$ 21.56 million loan
savings, which was principally approved by Mid-term Review Mission. MTAPC was formally
approved later by WB dated March 10, 2006 after the WB review of formal MTAPC application
with associated documents, such as EMPs, EIAs and Procurement Plan, submitted by HPMO and
five IAs. In later time, WB approved the extension of the loan closing date until June 30, 2008
for implementation of MTAPC dated April 4, 2007.

Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

Land Acquisition & Resettlement

Land acquisition and resettlement of HUEP were implemented as proposed in PAD (refer to
Annex 12, Project Appraisal Document, dated May 10, 2000) and Resettlement Action Plan.
Under the management of HPMO, all of the five IAs have set up the management offices for land
acquisition & resettlement to strengthen the management for land acquisition & resettlement prior
to and during project construction. The land acquisition & resettlement reports were subject to
submit to HPMO quarterly. The land acquisition & resettlement had been implemented in full
accordance with the action plan with exception for some pipeline sections under the roads which
were scheduled to be built according to municipal master plan, no construction delay occurred
due to land acquisition & resettlement to achieve the project objectives. There were some pipeline
to be built under the roads of municipal master plan of Shijiazhuang and Tangshan, of which the
land acquisition & resettlement were not the responsibility of the IAs. However, these roads were
not put into construction in time, and the IAs were not able to finance the land acquisition &
resettlement for these sections of pipeline, original pipeline alignment could not be implemented.
The IAs had changed pipeline alignment without affecting the wastewater collecting and portable
water distribution, and achieved original project objectives.

Compensation for all affected structures and person had been paid in time, and no complaint from
affected person occurred, ensuring the successful implementation of the project. Here is the
summary.

(a)     Shijiazhuang Wastewater Component

        Up to the end of 2007, total cost for land acquisition and resettlement was RMB 61.5
        million, RMB 12.0 million more than RMB 49.5 million proposed in PAD, including (1)
        land acquisition cost of RMB 45.5 million, (2) direct compensation to affected person of
        RMB 8.5 million (including compensation for young crops, temporary land occupation
        and attachments); and (3) attachment compensation cost of RMB 7.5 million.

(b)     Tangshan Water Supply Component

        Total cost for land acquisition and resettlement was RMB 27.7 million, RMB 5.2 million
        less than RMB 32.9 million proposed in PAD, including (1) permanent land occupation
        cost of RMB 14.8 million; and (2) temporary land occupation cost of RMB 13.0 million.




                                                 47

(c)     Tangshan Wastewater Component

        Total cost for land acquisition and resettlement was RMB 19.53 million, RMB 4.5
        million less than RMB 24.0 million proposed in PAD, including (1) permanent land
        occupation cost of RMB 18.7 million and (2) temporary land occupation cost of RMB
        0.83 million.

(d)     Handan Water Supply Component

        The water treatment plant to be built under this project is located within the existing
        water treatment (Phase 1) and no permanent land acquisition required. Construction for
        distribution network only needed temporary land occupation. The total compensation cost
        for affected person was RMB 12.9 million, RMB 3.5 million less than RMB 16.4 million
        proposed in PAD.

(e)     Handan Wastewater Component

        Total cost for land acquisition and resettlement was RMB 19.1 million, RMB 7.2 million
        less than RMB 26.3 million proposed in PAD, including (1) permanent land occupation
        cost of RMB 4.9 million, (2) attachment compensation cost of RMB 0.94 million, and (3)
        temporary land occupation & affected person compensation cost of RMB 13.3 million.

Environmental Management

Under the management of HPMO, all of the five IAs have set up the Environmental Management
Divisions (EMD) and Environmental Mitigation Plans (EMP) for environmental management
during the project construction and operation period. The environmental management reports
were subject to submit to HPMO quarterly. All of the five project components had been routinely
practiced the measures and arrangements specified in EMPs during the construction and operation
period, such as setting up temporary sonic barrier and limited construction period of the day if the
construction site within 150 meter to the resident area, adopting low noise construction
machinery, sprinkling water for dust control, timely cleaning construction trash and waste earth to
reduce the impacts primarily related to noise, air pollution from dust, vibration of machinery,
disposal of waste, traffic issues, safety and hazards. Local environment protection authorities
conducted snap-check for noise and air dust aperiodically. There were no negative impacts to
environment recorded. Also no significant disruption to the community and complaint from the
residents around the construction site were reported during the construction period. Successful
environmental management conduced to continuous construction.

Reporting and auditing

HPMO and five IAs had prepared and submitted the WB all the scheduled reports specified in
PAD. With the assistance of TA-Package B consultants, HPMO had submitted 29 Quarterly
Progress Reports to the end of June 2008 (loan closing date) with financial statements submitted
by IAs on bi-annual basis. Hebei Provincial Auditing Bureau (HPAB) has audited the financial
situation of HPMO, municipal PMOs and IAs in each fiscal year according to the requirements of
the Project Agreement and Loan Agreement, and has submitted audit reports to the World Bank
on time. There has been no substantial error disclosed in the audit reports except for some minor
mistakes which were corrected at the time.




                                                 48

Post Completion Operation

Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation

All the water supply and wastewater facilities have been successfully commissioned and
transferred to IAs with the exception for SWW/C4, a performance based contract for design,
construction, supply, installation, commissioning, operation and provision of training for sludge
processing and energy recovery facilities at new built wastewater treatment plant loaned by WB.
All the scope of work have been completed for the contract except for operation. The contract
required the contractor to operate two years prior to transferring the facility to the Shijiazhuang
WWC with the cost by counter part financing. The operation period is scheduled for completion
by the end of June 2009.

Optimal Use of Facilities

Shijiazhuang wastewater company (WWC) has reached an agreement with adjacent power plant
treatment to use the effluent from the new built wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) supported
by WB loan of the project as cooling water of the power plant after further purification.

Tangshan wastewater component had built a 60,000 m3/day wastewater reclamation plant
financed by loan savings from the project with its effluent successfully supplied to nearby power
plant as cooling water, increased income and achieved great environmental benefits in respect of
water conservation and pollution reduction.

Handan wastewater component is piping the effluent from new built WWTP to upstream of Qing
River for landscaping.

Operation

All of the water supply and wastewater facilities have been operating quite well with both the
treatment capacity and effluent quality having achieved design requirements. For the operation
staff, five WWCs and WSCs have transferred some skilled staff from existing plants to the new
built WTPs and WWTPs and trained new recruited staff before and during the commissioning
and trial production period, they have been very competent for operating these facilities. The
tariff has been increased several times for the five components since the appraisal of WB, and the
tariff collected are more than enough to cover the operating and maintenance cost for these
facilities.




                                                 49

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                    50

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  ·  Project Appraisal Document dated May 10, 2000
  ·  AIDE MEMOIREs
  ·  ISRs
  ·  Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports
  ·  Borrower Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
  ·  Project File containing records of project preparation, appraisal and supervision
  ·  Feasibility Studies
  ·  China Country Assistance Strategy (2003)
  ·  China Country Partnership Strategy (2006)
  ·  Consultant Report on Institutional Improvement Plants




                                          51

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 30926


                                                CHINA                                                                                                                      CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHINA
             HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                               HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                                       HEBEI URBAN
          TANGSHAN WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM COMPONENT                                                                           TANGSHAN WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM COMPONENT                                                                                      ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                      Project Existing                                                                                                                TANGSHAN WATER SUPPLY
             Project   Existing                                                                                                                     WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS     SEWAGE PIPELINES TO BE BUILT UNDER THE PROJECT
                              INTAKE PUMP STATION              ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                             AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING MAIN SEWERS
                              WATER TREATMENT PLANT            RAILROADS                                                                              CATCHMENT AREA 1                                                                                                              COMPONENTS
                              TRANSMISSION LINE                RIVERS                                                                                 CATCHMENT AREA 2              ROADS
                                                                                                                  Douhe                               CATCHMENT AREA 3              RAILROADS                                             Douhe

                                                                                                                 Reservoir                                                          RIVERS                                               Reservoir                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                                                                          Intake Pumping Station                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             114°                        116°                                        118°                                     120°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEI MONGOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              42°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zhamgjiakou                                 Chengde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIAONING


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      40°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BEIJING                                                       Qinhuangdao

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHANXI                                                                                      Tangshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Langfang            TIANJIN                       (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 see main map)
                                                                         Beijiao WTP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tianjin
                                 Water Treatment                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baoding

                                      Plant                             North Suburb WTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BO HAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cangzhou

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     38°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shijiazhuang                                                                                             38°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     see IBRD           Hengshui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30928)
                                                                                                                                                                      North WWTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dezhou

                                                         Longwangmlao WTP                                                                                                                                                                                 Xingtai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHANDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Handan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    see IBRD                                                         0           50       100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30929)                                                               KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     114°                          116°                                          118°                                         120°

West Suburb WTP

                                                                               Da Hong Glao WTP                                                                                                                                                                                          RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEILONGJIANG


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dong Jiao WWTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MONGOLIA                                                 JILIN                 Sea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REP.                                                                                     LIAONING D.P.R. OF        Japan
                                                                                                                              Xi Jiao WWTP                 Xi Jiao WWTP                                                                                          XINJIANG                                                                                  KOREA
                                                                                                                                 Phase 1                                                                                                                                                                          MONGOL        BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                              Phase 2                                                                                                                                          NEI      BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEBEI TIANJIN             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANDONG      Yellow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                QINGHAI                                   SHANXI                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NINGXIA                              JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GANSU       SHAANXI HENAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ANHUI          SHANGHAI     E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XIZANG                                             HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SICHUAN                                          ZHEJIANG        C h i n a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHONGQINGHUNAN                                       S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JIANGXIFUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            National Capital                                                                        TAIWAN
       0         1      2         3         4                                                                                      0         1         2     3       4                                                                                                                       YUNNAN                              GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Province Boundaries                                   GUANGXI                                  P h i l i p p i n e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HONG KONG
                    KILOMETERS                                                                                                                    KILOMETERS                                                                                                International Boundaries                                                MACAO                        S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B a y o f                      LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.D.R.              HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B e n g a l                                                                             PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DECEMBER 2008

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 30928



                                                                                                                                                                                  CHINA
                                                                                                                                               WASTEWATER TREATMENT
                                                                                                                                                    SHIJIAZHUANG WASTEWATER
                                                                                                                                               TREATMENT SYSTEM COMPONENT



                                                                               V

                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                   IIII                                                                                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                  114°                         116°                                        118°                                     120°
                                                                                                                                                      NEI MONGOL
                                                                                                                                           42°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42°




                                                                                                                                                                 Zhamgjiakou                                 Chengde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIAONING


                                                                                                                                                                                    BEIJING
                                                                                                                                           40°

                                                                                                                                                                           BEIJING                                                       Qinhuangdao

                                                                                                                                          SHANXI                                                                                       Tangshan
                                                                                                        IVIV                                                                         Langfang            TIANJIN                       (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       see IBRD 30926)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tianjin
                                                                                                                                                                  Baoding
                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BO HAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cangzhou

                                                                                                                                          38°

                                                                         IIIIII                                                                           Shijiazhuang                                                                                              38°
                                                                                                                                                          (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                          see main map)       Hengshui


                                                                                                                                                                                        Dezhou

                                                                                                                                               Xingtai
                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANDONG
                                                                                                                                                     Handan
                                                                                                                                                         (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                         see IBRD                                                          0           50       100
                                                                                                                                                         30929)                                                                KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                               HENAN
TRUNK SEWERS TO BE BUILT UNDER THE PROJECT  Qiaoxi WWTP                                                                                   114°                           116°                                          118°                                         120°


PROPOSED WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                                                                                                                            RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                            FEDERATION
EXISTING MAIN SEWERS                                                                                                                      KAZAKHSTAN
EXISTING WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                                                                                                                                                                                    HEILONGJIANG



                                                                                                                                                                                 MONGOLIA                                                  JILIN                 Sea

CATCHMENT AREA 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                 Qiaodong WWTP                            KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                           REP.                                                                                      LIAONING D.P.R. OF        Japan
CATCHMENT AREA 2                                                                                                                                      XINJIANG                                                                                   KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        MONGOL        BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEI      BEIJING
CATCHMENT AREA 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEBEI TIANJIN             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KOREA
CATCHMENT AREA 4                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHANDONG      Yellow
                                                                                                                                                                     QINGHAI                                    SHANXI                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                              NINGXIA
CATCHMENT AREA 5                                        To Xiao River               To Xiao River                                                                                                                                  JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                        GANSU        SHAANXI HENAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANHUI          SHANGHAI     E a s t
                                                                                                                                                           XIZANG                                              HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                     SICHUAN                                           ZHEJIANG        C h i n a
ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHONGQING                                            S e a
RAILROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JIANGXIFUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                            GUIZHOU

OPEN CHANNELS                                                                                                                                    National Capital                                                                         TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                   YUNNAN
                                                                                                                  0    1        2    3                                                                                 GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                 Province Boundaries                                    GUANGXI                                  P h i l i p p i n e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MACAO                        S e a
                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS                International Boundaries                    VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                        B a y o f                      LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                      P.D.R.               HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                       B e n g a l                                                                              PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECEMBER 2008

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 30929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         For Detail,
                                                                                                                                            CHINA                                                                                                                                                     see Main Map

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tiexi Phase 1                  Handan                        HANDAN
                                                       CHINA                                                 HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                           CHINA                                                                       Tiexi Phase 2                          City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WU'AN CITY                                                                         WATER SUPPLY
       HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                         HANDAN WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                          HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                            HANDAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COUNTY                                                     Raw Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Conveyance System
                               HANDAN WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                      HANDAN WASTEWATER TREATMENT
                                  SYSTEM COMPONENT                                                                                                                                                          SYSTEM COMPONENT                                                FENGFENG                                      Matou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MINERAL AREA                                                                                   Existing Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CI COUNTY               Town
                                                                                                                                                     NORTH SEWAGE PUMPING STATION                                                                                                                                                                                        Treatment Plant

                   WATER SUPPLY PIPES TO BE BUILT UNDER THE PROJECT                                                                                  TO BE BUILT UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dongwushi                                                                  Project Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Treatment Plant
                   PROPOSED WATER TREATMENT PLANT                                                                                                    PROJECT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                                                                                         Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nayuF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gRiver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Existing Conveyance
                   RAW WATER TRANSMISSION LINE TO BE BUILT UNDER THE PROJECT                                                                         SEWAGE PIPELINES TO BE BUILT UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Conveyance to be built
                   EXISTING WATER SUPPLY PIPES                                                                                                       EXISTING SEWAGE PUMPING STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                    under the Project

                   EXISTING WATER TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                                                   EXISTING WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                                                                                                                                County Boundaries

                   EXISTING RAW WATER TRANSMISSION LINE                                                                                              EXISTING SEWER LINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yuecheng                                                                                 Rivers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Reservoir

                   ROADS                                                                                                                             ROADS                                                                                                                                                        0            1                2

                   RAILROADS                                                                                                                         RAILROADS                                                                                                                                Zhang    River             KILOMETERS

                   RIVERS                                                                                                                            RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                114°                         116°                                           118°                                    120°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEI MONGOL
                                                           ShuyuanRiver                                      uFyangRiver                                                           Shuyuan  River                              FuyangRiver                               42°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42°




                                                                                                                                                                                                 West WWTP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           North SPS                                                          Zhamgjiakou                                     Chengde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIAONING


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         40°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEIJING                                                          Qinhuangdao

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHANXI                                                                                          Tangshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Langfang                TIANJIN                       (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        see IBRD 30926)
                                   Tiexi WTP Phase 1                                                                                                                                                                                             East SPS                                                                                      Tianjin
                                                                                                                           No. 1 WTP                                                                                                                                                           Baoding

                                                                                                                                                                                              Fu Xing                                                                                                                                                                           BO HAI
                                                                                                                                                                                             Road SPS
                                        ZhuRiver   Tiexi WTP Phase 2                                                                                                   ZhuRiver             (temporary)                                                                                                                                Cangzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           East WWTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         38°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shijiazhuang                                                                                                38°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        see IBRD           Hengshui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30928)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lao Dong                                                                                               Dezhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Road SPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Xingtai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHANDONG
                                                                                     No. 2                                                                                                                                                                                         Handan
                                                                                      WTP                                                                                                                                                                                              (for detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       see main                                                             0           50       100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        map)                                                                    KILOMETERS
                                                                                                     No. 3
                                                                                                   Fuyang WTP                                                                                                                                                                HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Shui Chang Nan                                    114°                          116°                                             118°                                         120°
                                                                                   No. 4 Sandi WTP                                                                                                                      Road SPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEILONGJIANG



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MONGOLIA                                                     JILIN                 Sea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REP.                                                                                         LIAONING D.P.R. OF        Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XINJIANG                                                                                      KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MONGOL        BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NEI      BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEBEI TIANJIN             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHANDONG      Yellow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   QINGHAI                                       SHANXI                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NINGXIA                              JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GANSU            SHAANXI HENAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ANHUI          SHANGHAI     E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XIZANG                                                 HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SICHUAN                                               ZHEJIANG        C h i n a
                                         from Yuecheng             from Dongwushi
                                                Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S e a
                                                                   Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHONGQINGHUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JIANGXIFUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GUIZHOU

This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                             0               1          2    3                                                                           0                  1           2        3              National Capital                                                                            TAIWAN

The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 YUNNAN                   GUANGXI        GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P h i l i p p i n e
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Province Boundaries
                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS                                                                                                     KILOMETERS                                                                                                         HONG KONG
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                               International Boundaries                                                    MACAO                        S e a
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B a y o f                     LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P.D.R.                  HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B e n g a l                                                                                 PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DECEMBER 2008

                                                                             80°E                       90°E                                                  100°E                        110°E                                         120°E                                   130°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Heilong
                                                                                                                       RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                                                       RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                      Heilong Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jiang




                                                                       KAZAKHSTANKAZAKHSTAN
                                                CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H E I L O N G J I A N G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                QiqiharQiqihar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Harbin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Harbin
                                                                                                                                                                MONGOLIA
              40°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Changchun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Changchun
                                                                                    Urumqi
                                                                                    Urumqi                                                                                                                                                                                 J I L I N
                  TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shenyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Shenyang
                                                    KashiKashi                                                                                                                                                                                            LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIAONING                    DEM.          40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                          L                                                          AnshanAnshan   PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                         N G  O
                                                                    X I N J I A N G                                                                                               M   O                     Hohhot
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hohhot                                                                   REP. OF     Sea of
             AFGHANISTANAFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                       N EI                Baotou
                                                                                                                                                                                              Baotou                       BEIJINGBEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                         Huang He                                        BEIJINGBEIJING                              KOREA       Japan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tianjin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ianjin          Dalian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dalian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H E B E I        TIANJINTIANJIN

                                                                                                                                                                                    Yinchuan
                                                                                                                                                                                      inchuan                                 Shijiazhuang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shijiazhuang
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Taiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                            aiyuan                                                                       REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Yellow     KOREA
                      This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                                            Jinan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jinan
                      the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                Xining
                                                                                                                                                                Xining                                        SHANXISHANXI                                  QingdaoQingdao       Sea
             PAKISTAN
               AKISTANWorld Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                      Lanzhou
                                                                                                                                                                       Lanzhou
                      colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                                                                           SHANDONGSHANDONG
                      any other information shown                                                           Q I N G H A I                                                      NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zhengzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zhengzhou                                                            JAPAN
              30°N    on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                            Luoyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Luoyang
                      the part of The World Bank                          X I Z A N G                                                                                 G A N S U         Xi'an
                                                                                                                                                                                        Xi'an                                                          JIANGSUJIANGSU
                      Group, any judgment on the                                                               Tongtian                                  Huang
                      legal status of any territory,                                                                                                          He                      S H A A N X I                H E N A N
                      or any endorsement or
                      a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nanjing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nanjing
                      boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                        Hefei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hefei                            Shanghai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shanghai                  30°N
                                                                                                       NuNu                                                                                                                               ANHUIANHUI                     SHANGHAISHANGHAI
                    0               300 Kilometers                                                                                                                                     CHONGQINGCHONGQINGChang                                                       Hangzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hangzhou              East
                                                                                              Lhasa
                                                                                              Lhasa
                                           INDIAINDIA                                                                   Lancang              JinshaJinsha S I C H U A N                                       Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H U B E I
                                                                                                                                                                          Chengdu
                                                                                                                                                                          Chengdu                                               Wuhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   uhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         China
                    0    100          200    300 Miles           NEPAL                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHEJIANGZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea
                                             80°E                                                                                                                                    ChongqingChongqing                                     Nanchang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nanchang

                                                                                     BHUTAN                                                                                                                  HUNANHUNAN     Changsha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Changsha
                                                                CHINA                                                                                                                                                           JIANGXIJIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                              GUIZHOUGUIZHOU                                                    F U J I A N    Fuzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fuzhou
                  HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                      Guiyang
                                                                                                                                                                                       Guiyang

                                                                                                                                                            Kunming
                                                                                                                                                            Kunming
                                                                                BANGLADESHBANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                 TAIWATAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUANGDONGGUANGDONG
                                                              PROJECT ROVINCE                                                                  Y U N N A N                             G U A N G X I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XunXun     Guangzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Guangzhou
                                                              MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS                                           RA                                                              Nanning
                                                                                                                                                                                              Nanning                                    HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HONG KONG
                                                              PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MACAO                                                                20°N
                                                                          20°N                       MYANMARMYANMAR             MNANMARAY                             VIETNAMVIETNAM

DECEMBER                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                         MYM                   LAOLAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Haikou                                                                                  IBRD
                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                           PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                            PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                              DEM.DEM.                         HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                               HAINAN
                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                  THAILAND                                                                                                                                         PHILIPPINES                         36669
        2008                                                                                                                                                   REP
                                                                                                                                                               REP.
                                                                                90°E                                                        100°E                                                            110°E                                                        120°E

                                                                                                                               CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS
                                                                                                            TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION
                             KAZAKHSTAN

                 UZBEKISTAN                  KYRGYZ
                                           REPUBLIC

                TURKMENISTAN        TAJIKISTAN                                                              TRANSPORT CORRIDORS (ROADS)                                           MAJOR CITIES

                                                                                                            TRANSPORT CORRIDORS (RAILROADS)                                       NATIONAL CAPITALS

                                                                                                            BORDER CROSSINGS                                                      MAJOR RIVERS

                                                                                                            MARITIME PORTS                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                            RAILROADS




                                       50°                                           60°                                      70°                                          80°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              90°

                                                                                                                                     Irtysh

                                                                                              R U S S I A N                          F E D E R A T I O N
                                                                                                                                                           To Novosibirsk
                                                                                                                                     To Chelyabinsk
                                                                                         To Chelyabinsk                                                                        To Novosibirsk

                                                   Kama                                                                                                                                                    To Barnaul

                                                                         To Ula
                                                                                                                           Petropavlovsk                                                                     Ob'




                                   To Samara                                                                                         Kokshetau                                                                                                      50°
                                                                    To Orenburg                                                                                Pavlodar

                                                                                                           Kostanay      Ruzaevka                                        Irtysh
              To Saratov                                                                                                                               Shiderty
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oskemen
                                                                                                                            Zhaksy                                             Semipalantinks
                                                                                                                                                    ASTANA
                                                               Ural                                                                                                                          Georgievka
                                               Ural'sk
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake
             50°                      Zhaiyk                                                                                                                Karagandy                                        Zaisan

                                                                 Aktobe                  Karabutak
                                            (U                                                                                                                                                             Taskesken
                                           )lar

            Volga                                                                Embi
                                                                                                                                                                            Balkash                  Ucharal
                                                                                                                                  Zhezkazgan                                                                                To Urumqi
                                      Dossor                                                        K A Z A K H S T A N
                                          Atyrau                                                                                                      Saryshaghan        Lake                                                       To Urumqi
                                                                                                                                                                         Balkash                    Taldykorgan


                                                                                                            Toretam
              To Kizlyar                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Korla

                                                             Beyneu                         Aral
                                                                                            Sea                          Kyzyl-Orda
                                                                                                                                                                                                Almaty
                                                                                                                     Syr-Darya                                                                            Karakol
                                                                                                                                                            Taraz
                                  Aktau                                                                                                                                                        Lake Issyk-Kul
                                                                                                                                                                               BISHKEK
                                                Zhanaozen
                                                                                                                                                              Talas                            Naryn                                               40°
                        Caspian                                                               UZBEKISTAN                                           Shymkent              KYRGYZ              Naryn
                                                                                        Nukus
                           Sea                                                                                                                                          REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                         Jalal-Abad
                                                                            Dashhowuz                                            TASHKENT
                                                                                    Urgench                                                                   Andijon      Osh
            AZERB.       BAKU                                                                                                                                      Ferghana                                         CHINA
                                                                                                                                      Guliston                                              To Shache
              40°                              Turkmenbashi  TURKMENISTAN                                                Navoi   Jizzakh
                                                                                                                                                            Batken

                                                                                                            Bukhoro
                                                      Nebitdag                                                                   Samarkand               TAJIKISTAN
                                                                 Serdar                            Turkmenabat       Qarshi                        DUSHANBE
                                                                                                                                                          Kulob
                                                                               ASHGABAT                                                            Qurghonteppa        Khorugh
                                                                                                                                 Termez
                                                                                                                                  er
                                                                                          Tejen
                                                                                                    Mary

                                                       To Semnan
                                                          ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by
                                                                               To Mashhad                                                                                                                                the Map Design Unit of The
                             TEHRAN                  REP.ISLAMIC
                                                             OF IRAN                                                                                                                                                     World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on this map do not imply, on
JANUAR                                                 REP. OF IRAN                                                  AFGHANISTAN                          KABUL                                                          the part of The World Bank      IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the

                           0  100  200          300    400    500                                                                                                                                                        legal status of any territory,      33670
      Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                  or any endorsement or
       2005                                                                                                                                   To Gardiz             PAKISTAN                                             a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                   50°             KILOMETERS                                           60°            To Farah                                                70°                                                       boundaries.

