                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No:ICR0000158




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-34550)




                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.8 MILLION
                      (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA

                                  FOR AN

                    HIV/AIDS RAPID RESPONSE PROJECT

                               June 28, 2007




Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective: November 15, 2000)
                               Currency Unit = Gambian Dalasi (GMD)
                                     SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.285
                                     US$ 1.00 = GMD 14.5

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1 ­ December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACT Africa AIDS Campaign Team for Africa         MIS          Management Information System
ARI        Accelerated Results Initiative        MRC          Medical Research Center
ART        Anti-retroviral Therapy               MTCT         Mother-to-Child Transmission
ARV        Anti-retroviral                       MTR          Mid-Term Review
BCC        Behavior Change Communication         NAC          National AIDS Council
BSS        Behavioral Surveillance Survey        NACP         National AIDS Control Program
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy           NAS          National AIDS Secretariat
CMU        Country Management Unit               NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
CSWs       Commercial Sex Workers                OI           Opportunistic Infection
DAC        Divisional AIDS Committee             PAD          Project Appraisal Document
DCA        Development Credit Agreement          PDO          Project Development Objective
DoSE       Department of State for Education     PHPNP        Participatory Health, Population, and
DoSH       Department of State for Health                     Nutrition Project
FM         Financial Management                  PLWHAS       People Living with HIV/AIDS
FMA        Financial Management Agent            PMTCT        Prevention of Mother-to-Child
GFATM      Global Fund to Fight TB, AIDS and                  Transmission
           Malaria                               PPF          Project Preparation Facility
GLF        Gambia Local Fund                     PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
HARRP      HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project       PTCT         Parent-to-Child Transmission
IEC        Information Education and             QER          Quality Enhancement Review
           Communication                         SSS          Sentinel Surveillance Survey
KAP        Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice     STI          Sexually Transmitted Infection
KPI        Key Performance Indicator             TB           Tuberculosis
LIL        Learning Innovation Loans             TTL          Task Team Leader
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation             VCT          Voluntary Counseling and Testing
MAP        Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program


                                Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                             Country Director: Madani M. Tall
                               Sector Manager: Eva Jarawan
                         Project Team Leader: John F. May
                            ICR Team Leader: Yi-Kyoung Lee

                                             COUNTRY
                                            Project Name
                         HIV/AIDS RAPID RESPONSE PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................... 1
 2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 4
 3.    Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 8
 4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................... 12
 5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 13
 6.    Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 15
 7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 31
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 41
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
 Annex 10. Prevalence of HIV among pregnant women .............................................. 44
 Annex 11. List of Key Performance Indicators: from PAD and DCA........................ 46
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       HIV/AIDS Rapid
Country:                Gambia                  Project Name:
                                                                       Response Project
Project ID:             P060329                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34550
ICR Date:               06/28/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOV. OF THE
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                       GAMBIA
Original Total
                        XDR 11.8M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 11.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
National AIDS Secretariat (NAS)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/16/2000    Effectiveness:         07/31/2001         07/31/2001
Appraisal:             11/15/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/16/2001    Mid-term Review:                          05/08/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately
                                                                       Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing            Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower        Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               7                 7
Health                                                         73                73
Other social services                                          18                18
Sub-national government administration                          2                 2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                             Secondary        Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                      Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Madani M. Tall                   John McIntire
Sector Manager:           Alexander S. Preker              Anwar Bach-Baouab
Project Team Leader:      John F. May                      Richard M. Seifman
ICR Team Leader:          Yi-Kyoung Lee
ICR Primary Author:       Yi-Kyoung Lee
                          Antonio C. David



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to assist the Government of The Gambia
stem a rapid growth of human immuno-deficiency virus (HIV) infection which causes the
acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome (AIDS). The project will help organize a



                                             ii

preemptive response to the growing HlV/AIDS epidemic through a multi-sectoral
approach by: (a) maintaining the current low levels of the epidemic; (b) reducing its
spread and mitigating its effects; and (c) increasing access to prevention services as well
as care and support for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. The overall project is
premised on the development and expansion of local responses to the epidemic.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No change of PDO

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
                                               approval           Target     Completion or
                                             documents)           Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   At least 90% of the population (age 15-49) aware of HIV/AIDS transmission
                modes and means of prevention by end of Project.
Value
quantitative or 66.6%                     90%                             65.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Source: BSS 2002 & 2005
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Use of condom at last sexual contact among young people (aged 15-24) will have
                increased by 40% by the end of Project.
Value
quantitative or 72.5%                     40%                             70.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2005
Comments        Source: BSS 2002 & 2005
(incl. %        Proportion of unmarried young people aged 15-24 who used condom at last
achievement)    sexual contact. The proportion decreased by 2.4% between 2002 and 2005.
Indicator 3 :   Prevalence rates of HIV contained to present levels
Value
quantitative or 1.3%                      1-2%                            1.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/31/2001                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2005
Comments        Source: SSS 2000/01 & 2005
(incl. %        Prevalence of HIV-1 among pregnant women aged 15-49. See Annex 10 for
achievement)    details
Indicator 4 :   Prevalence rates of STI contained to present levels
Value
quantitative or 8.1%                      -                               3.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2005
Comments        Source: BSS 2002 & 2005
(incl. %        Proportion of people aged 15-49 reported having had STI during the past 12



                                               iii

achievement)   months

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :  At least 50% of the population reached through IEC/BCC programs on
               HIV/AIDS
Value
(quantitative  96.2%                      50%                               91.6%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2006                        06/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %       Source: BSS 2002 & 2005
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  At least five key line Departments are implementing agreed action plans
                                                                            9 line departments
Value                                                                       prepared action
(quantitative  0                          5                                 plans but partially
or Qualitative)                                                             implemented the
                                                                            activities
Date achieved 07/31/2001                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Source: NAS
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  The number of sentinel surveillance sites will have increased by 2 in Project
               Year 1 and to a total of 8 by the end of the Project
Value
(quantitative  4                          8                   6             9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/31/2001                  12/31/2006          12/31/2006    10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Source: NAS
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Community and Civil Society Initiatives disbursements reach at least 75% of
               planned levels
Value
(quantitative  0%                         75%                               124%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/31/2001                  12/31/2006                        12/31/2006

Comments       Source: NAS

(incl. %       Disbursements including estimated community contributions (USD 10.1 million)

achievement)   reached 124% of planned levels (USD 8.2 million). Disbursements of the IDA
               fund (USD 8.6 million) was 116% of estimates at appraisal (USD 7.5 million)

Indicator 5 :  Access to treatment for STIs, TB, and other opportunistic infections available in
               at least 20% of health facilities by end of Project



                                                 iv

Value          No baseline information                                      61 facilities provide

(quantitative  on facilities providing    20%                               treatment for STI

or Qualitative)treatment for STIs & OIs;                                    and OIs; 11
               5 facilities for TB                                          facilities for TB
Date achieved 09/30/2004                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006

Comments       Source: NAS & DoSH; GFATM Q8 report

(incl. %       The target number of facilities which would incorporate the treatment was not

achievement)   determined and no baseline information was available. Thus, the rate of change
               could not be calculated. The servi

Indicator 6 :  NAC and NAS fully functioning and national HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan of
               Action adopted.
                                                                            NAC convened
                                                                            only twice in the
                                                                            last two and half
                                                                            years, while bi-
                                                                            annual meetings
                                                                            were planned.

Value                                                                       NAS prepared the

(quantitative  None                       NAC & NAS fully                   National HIV

or Qualitative)                           functional                        Strategy and Plan
                                                                            of Action and acted
                                                                            as a national
                                                                            coordination
                                                                            authority.
                                                                            However, it also
                                                                            experienced several
                                                                            major problems.
Date achieved 07/31/2001                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006
               Source: NAS

Comments       Several major issues include:

(incl. %       - Long vacancy and high turnover of staff;

achievement)   - Ineffective management at NAS;
               - Weak monitoring and evaluation; and
               - Insecure legal/funding status of NAS
Indicator 7 :  All DACs start implementation of Project activities by the end of Project year 2

Value                                                                       All DACs started

(quantitative  None                       DACs fully                        implementing CCSI

or Qualitative)                           functional                        sub-projects by
                                                                            2003
Date achieved 07/31/2001                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Source: NAS
achievement)

Indicator 8 :  Voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) services incorporated into antenatal, TB,
               and STI services in 50% of health facilities by the end of Project
Value
(quantitative  4 facilities               50%                               19 facilities
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2002                  12/31/2006                        10/31/2006



                                               v

Comments       Source: NAS & DoSH

(incl. %       There was no list of `target health facilities' that should have incorporated VCT.

achievement)   Therefore, the proportion could not be calculated. The service expansion was
               done through HARRP and GF.
               At least 5 new VCT centers are set up and functioning with adequate number of
Indicator 9 :  trained staff to deliver effective care, adequate supply of testing kits and drugs,
               and a satisfactory monitoring and evaluation system.
Value
(quantitative  0                           5                                   5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2005                   12/31/2006                          10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Source: NAS & DoSH; Mission AM

achievement)   New indicator from the amended DCA

Indicator 10 : 700 PLWHAs are receiving anti-retroviral treatment by the end of the Project
Value
(quantitative  39                          700                                 418
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2004                   12/31/2006                          10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Source: NAS; GFATM Q8 report

achievement)   New indicator from the amended DCA


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                            IP                Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/13/2001            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     10/18/2001            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     12/03/2001            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.00
  4     05/09/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.00
  5     09/09/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.23
  6     11/05/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.23
  7     04/23/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.69
  8     10/10/2003            Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      2.71
  9     03/02/2004            Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      4.35
  10    05/28/2004            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      5.31
  11    11/26/2004            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      8.60
  12    05/27/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                      11.90

  13    07/30/2005            Moderately                  Moderately
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     13.84

  14    11/16/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                      15.16
  15    05/16/2006            Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 16.36

  16    11/14/2006    Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately
                                                        Unsatisfactory                     16.89




                                                 vi

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             vii

1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1.     Context at Appraisal
1.       HIV was first identified in The Gambia in 1986. Several surveys during the late 1980s
and early 1990s found that around 1.7-1.8% of antenatal mothers were already infected by HIV,
mostly of the HIV-2 type (1.1%) with a steady increase of the HIV-1 type (0.6%). By 2000/01,
prevalence of HIV-1 increased to 1.3%, while that of HIV-2 declined to 0.9% among pregnant
women (see Annex 10 for details). Limited studies showed that prevalence of HIV-1 among
female CSWs attending a sexually transmitted infection (STI) clinic increased from 6.9% in
1992-94 to 14.1% in 1998-2000, while that of HIV-2 decreased from 14.3% to 3.2% over the
same period. HIV prevalence among CSWs in Banjul for example, was estimated to be up to
13.6% in 1993 and over 28% in 1999.

2.       The Gambia's initial response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic began very modestly in 1986
when the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Social Welfare established the National AIDS Control
Program (NACP). By the mid 1990s, the Government prepared a strategic framework for HIV as
part of the National Health Policy (1994-2000) and the National HIV/AIDS Policies and
Guideline, and launched programs to fight the epidemic which received support from internal and
external development partners. However, the level of funding and coordination were vastly
inadequate primarily due to limited visibility of the issue and a lack of commitment and
leadership from the political strata till 2000. During the first National HIV/AIDS Forum held in
November 2000, the President of The Gambia called on all Gambians to join him in declaring a
war against HIV/AIDS, thereby raising awareness and voicing the needed political commitment.
Recognizing the risk that HIV poses to Gambia's development prospects and the increased need
for a multi-sectoral approach in the fight against HIV/AIDS, the National HIV/AIDS Council
(NAC) was set up by the President's Office in 2001 as an advisory body on policy and strategic
issues in the fight against HIV/AIDS with the adjunct of the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat
(NAS) acting as coordinator for the national response to HIV/AIDS.

3.       At the time of preparation for this project, IDA was financing a project (Participatory
Health, Population and Nutrition Project (PHPNP) approved in FY98) to assist the Government
in addressing high maternal and child morbidity and mortality from infectious diseases, high
fertility and undernutrition, including prevention and control of STI and HIV/AIDS. In addition,
a population policy Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was envisioned for the 1998 CAS to
assist the Government in intensifying the demand-driven efforts related to family planning and
HIV prevention.     With the approval of the 1999 HIV/AIDS strategy in the Africa region
`Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa' and the subsequent creation of the Multi-
Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region in 2000, the initial preparatory work for the
population policy LIL operation was subsumed into the current project under review, the
HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (HARRP).

1.2.     Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
4.       The Project Development Objective (PDO) in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) is to assist the borrower to organize a preemptive response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
through a multi-sectoral approach by: (i) maintaining the current low levels of the epidemic; (ii)
reducing the spread and mitigating its effects; and (iii) increasing access to prevention services as
well as care and support for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS.

5.       The outcome/impact indicators outlined in the DCA against which the GOTG and IDA
agreed to measure the project performance include:




                                                1

         At least 90% of the population (ages 15-49) aware of HIV/AIDS transmission modes and
         means of prevention by end of the Project;
         Use of condoms at last sexual contact among young people (ages 15-24) increased by
         40% by the end of the Project; and
         Prevalence rates of HIV and STI contained to present levels.

Output and process indicators in the DCA are in the Data Sheet and additional indicators in the
results framework of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) are outlined in Annex 11.

1.3.     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
6.       After the Mid-Term Review (MTR) and subsequent discussions at the Quality
Enhancement Review (QER), a revised PDO1 was proposed but not formally adopted. At the
request of the Government, the DCA was, however, amended (April 2005), whereby several key
indicators were modified and/or added: (i) Sentinel surveillance sites increased by 2 in Project
Year 1 and a total of 6 by the end of the Project (modified); (ii) At least five new voluntary
counseling and testing centers are set up and functioning as part of five new reproductive health
centers under the project, with an adequate number of trained staff to deliver effective care, an
adequate supply of test kits and drugs and a satisfactory monitoring and evaluation system
(added); and (iii) 700 people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHAs) are receiving anti-retroviral
treatment by the end of the Project (added). These changes did not require Board approval, and
the amended DCA was therefore approved by the Country Management Unit (CMU).

1.4.     Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
7.       The Project was to benefit: (i) high-risk groups, comprising of commercial sex workers
and their clients, truck drivers or long distance transport personnel, and migrant workers, and
those already infected; (ii) priority target groups, comprising of women, youths aged 15-24,
orphans, and line Department personnel such as educators, health workers, the tourist industry
and personnel in uniform (military, police, customs, immigration, firemen); and more broadly (iii)
the general population. Specifically, project indicators focused on reaching 40% of youth aged
15-24 years (voluntary counseling and testing of HIV (VCT)), 80% of health workers (training on
the safe handling of HIV/AIDS hazardous materials), 80% of general public (IEC/BCC), 50% of
high risk groups (VCT) and 700 PLWHAs (anti-retroviral therapy -ART). In addition, the project
was to focus on core transmitter groups such as long distance drivers (1,000), sex workers (300-
700), uniformed personnel (3,000-5,000), and fishing communities (5,000-7,500) during the
extension period with the increasing evidence of the effectiveness of targeted intervention in a
concentrated epidemic.

1.5.     Original Components


1The original PDO in the PAD and the DCA was slightly different. It was also written in a way that
output/process (i.e. organize a preemptive response through a multi-sectoral approach) would be achieved
by outcomes (i.e. maintain the current low levels of the epidemic, reduce its spread and mitigating its
effects, etc). The proposed, but not formally revised PDO tried to solve this problem by modifying it to:
assist the borrower to reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic (PDO1) and mitigate its effects
(PDO2) by (i) organizing a preemptive and sustainable multi-sectoral rapid response to the epidemic
throughout the country, (ii) empowering communities, civil society and private sector organizations to
implement HIV/AIDS activities at national and local levels; and (iii) increasing access to prevention
services for the general population as well as treatment, care, and support services for those infected and
affected by HIV/AIDS. The achievement of PDO in Section 3.2. was evaluated based on these
outcomes (PDO 1 & 2).




                                                    2

8.       Component 1. Capacity Building and Policy Development (US$3.50 million) aimed at
strengthening the Gambia's capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS by supporting: (i) the
work of the multi-sectoral NAC and NAS, the Divisional AIDS Committees (DACs), and small
entities requesting proposal preparation assistance; and (ii) the development of the national
HIV/AIDS strategy and action plan.

9.       Component 2. Multi-sectoral Responses for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care
(US$2.65 million) was designed to improve the capacity of non-health sector line Departments to
respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, emphasizing prevention and care. This would be achieved
through development of Departmental policies, coupled with a two-prong action approach,
namely: (i) the provision of HIV/AIDS and STIs education, training, condoms, and other support
to the line Department staff and their dependents, to encourage HIV/AIDS and STIs avoidance
behavior; and (ii) the enhancement of the capacity of these staffs to provide their partners and
audiences (e.g. parents-teachers associations, village health committees) with means to provide
effective HIV/AIDS and STI prevention, and ways to access health care facilities and care.

10.      Component 3. Health Sector Responses to STI/HIV Management (US$1.85 million)
was designed to support: (i) the implementation of priority management services in Department
of State for Health (DoSH)'s HIV/AIDS/STI Action Plan; and (ii) expansion of DoSH's efforts
on reproductive health and opportunistic infection (OI) control.         In addition to the basic
prevention activities, Component 3 also aimed to expand its medical functions such as diagnosis
and treatment of OIs, care at health facilities, and laboratory services including the safety of
blood for transfusion and blood products.

11.      Component 4. Community and Civil Society Initiatives (US$8.20 million) was
designated to expand the demand driven responses to the epidemic by providing grant resources
for HIV/AIDS related activities by communities and civil societies. The resource was designed
to finance activities such as IEC/BCC, support to high-risk groups, youth related activities, and
condom supply and dissemination through three different channels ­ category A (big scale
project), B (medium scale project), and C (small scale project).

1.6.     Revised Components - None

1.7.     Other significant changes
12.      Amendment of DCA. While all the components remained the same over the life of the
project, the scope of activities supported by the credit was fine-tuned through the DCA
amendment of April 2005 to `improve development effectiveness and accelerate implementation'
following the MTR and QER. For example, provision of ART, VCT, and prevention of mother-
to-child transmission (PMTCT) was included under Component 3 to complement other activities
in a changing environment. However, the scale of amendment was much narrower than discussed
during the MTR and QER; most KPIs remained the same even though some indicators are not
relevant due to lack of baseline data and since no data collection was planned.

13.      Extension of the Project. The project was extended for a year from December 31, 2005
to December 31, 2006 to compensate for the time lost at the beginning of implementation due to
the difficulty of recruiting key staff.     The extension period was intended to sharpen and
consolidate the fight against HIV/AIDS by focusing on the prevention of HIV/AIDS among core
transmitter groups.

14.      Global Fund.    In 2004, the NAS received USD 14.6 million from the Global Fund
(Round 3) for a 5 year project that would provide quality treatment and care programs such as



                                               3

VCT, PTCT, ART, treatment and prevention of OIs, and community based care. The HARRP,
whose primary focus is prevention, also covered these aspects through Health Sector Response
and CCSI but on a limited scale. Phase 1 of the Global Fund (USD 6.2 million) ended in
September 2006 and Phase 2 (USD 8.3 million) is underway (see Annex 2 for more details on
achievement of GF activities and complementarities and overlaps of the GF and HARRP
activities). With the arrival of the GF, NAS was strengthened by recruiting a dedicated GF
administrator, a procurement assistant, and an M&E specialist to manage the GF activities.
Additional staff also helped implementation and monitoring of the HARRP, in particular Health
Sector Response.

15.      was facilitated by a dedicated administrator in the NAS


2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1.     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
16.      Sufficiency of background analysis. HARRP was built on initial lessons learned from
MAP experiences in Kenya and Ethiopia as well as activities under implementation in The
Gambia including the IDA financed PHPNP. Essential learning factors incorporated include: (i)
engagement of the highest level of government to ensure the sustainability of the fight against
HIV/AIDS, resulting in the establishment of a coordinating body (i.e. NAS) under the Office of
the President; (ii) active participation and consultation from in-country and external development
partners; and (iii) contracting out financial management to ensure timely and reliable flow of
funds to various implementing entities at all levels. However, critical analysis of the prevailing
country and sector specific context and implementation arrangements was insufficient due partly
to a very short period of project preparation, resulting in substantial delays in implementation.
For example, the Project emphasized responses that could be implemented rapidly by working
with multisectoral and non-public sector groups such as communities and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), yet the assessment of absorptive capacity of these implementing agencies
and organizations was not properly carried out. Also, government's readiness to establish and
institutionalize the NAC and NAS was not properly assessed. In addition, the PAD did not
effectively address the difficulties of recruiting (and retaining) staff, while there was an apparent
acute shortage of some skills. Thus, recruiting of all core staff of the NAS, creation of which was
influenced by the MAP eligibility, took more than a year after the Project became effective.

17.      Assessment of project design. The Project design followed the overall MAP framework,
which considered prevention and engagement of civil society as the mainstay of an HIV/AIDS
response and included typical MAP components: capacity building and project coordination
(component 1); expanding the (multisectoral) public sector response (components 2-sectors other
than health and 3-health sector); and focusing on civil and community organizations (component
4-CCSI). The health sector response was separated from other public sector responses, thereby
minimizing the possibility of competition for resources between the health sector and other
sectors. Given the `learning by doing' nature of phase 1 of the MAP project, the M&E plan
placed much emphasis on creating information that would `guide adjustment and modification of
the Project components' during the early stages of project implementation. However, the results
framework was not designed to achieve this. For example, given the short implementation period
of the Project, the concentrated HIV epidemic, and many other factors that might influence the
outcome, the prevalence of HIV and STI among the general public was not an appropriate
indicator to measure the achievement of the Project (see Annex 10, Box 1 for the limitation of




                                                 4

prevalence and incidence).      2   Furthermore, the only indicator related to the CCSI component
which took up more than 50% of the credit was `disbursement level.' While this indicator can
demonstrate the accessibility of funds, it is not suitable for `adjustment and modification of the
targeting and strategy' of the Project component during implementation as proposed in the PAD.

18.      Assessment of risks. The PAD identified most critical risks, yet the team did not
anticipate two essential ones due probably to lack of institutional analysis: diminished
commitment of the Government for the fight against HIV/AIDS (e.g. non-regular meetings of
NAC) and, more importantly, ineffectiveness of NAS to coordinate and facilitate implementation
of all the activities planned. As a result, many mitigation measures proposed were based on the
assumption that NAS could effectively mitigate the risks identified. However, NAS was not able
to carry out some mitigation measures, resulting in incomplete implementation (e.g. NAS did not
hold inter-Departmental meetings on a regular basis to improve coordination among Department
of States and reporting).

2.2.     Implementation
19.      The implementation is characterized by initial delays resulting from difficulty of
recruiting core project staff3 and a series of mitigation measures introduced to accelerate the
project implementation throughout the life of the project. Sub-optimal follow-up efforts of the
mitigation measures due to the lack of proactive management, however, resulted in: (i) partial
implementation of some activities (re-allocation was done); (ii) incomplete data to support project
achievement; and (iii) insecure legal/funding status of NAS. Two major events to facilitate the
project implementation are described below.

20.      Accelerated Results Initiatives (ARI). To expedite the implementation of the Project that
was lagging behind the schedule, the ARI process, which enabled stakeholders to develop and
implement solutions to address specific issues (e.g. awareness and stigmatization; effective
involvement of the national leadership in the national response to HIV/AIDS; VCT and PTCT;
reliable drug procurement, management and distribution) was introduced in early 2004. The
process also helped increase alignment and collaboration among the various HIV/AIDS
stakeholders and the country's ability to implement actions. However, as it is common with any
intensive campaign, it was reported that this process distracted the NAS from implementing
ongoing activities especially as it was already short staffed.             In addition, the momentum built
within the political and religious leadership as well as with stakeholders, was not maintained after
the ARI period.

21.      MTR, QER, and Extension. To expedite implementation and enhance its effects, MTR
(April 2004) and QER (December 2004), followed by the one year extension (from December 31,
2005 to 2006), were arranged. During the extension period, the collaboration between the Global
Fund programs and health sector response of HARRP was strengthened and IEC/BCC strategy
was finalized. Also, development effectiveness of the CCSI component was carried out even
though the scope of the study was limited mostly to the administrative aspects. However, the
extension period was sub-optimally used to produce the desired results as many activities planned
were not implemented: (i) the recommendations from the organizational effectiveness assessment


2Due to the limitations of using prevalence as a measure of PDO (see Annex 10), the MAP TTLs were
encouraged to revise the PDO and drop prevalence as a key indicator. This project was closed shortly after
the recommendation was issued by the ACTAfrica and therefore did not have opportunity to do so.
3After the effectiveness of the project, the Government decided to substantially lower salaries for the
project staff. This resulted in a significant delay in recruiting qualified staff.




                                                      5

(i.e. staff performance reviews, clearer separation between the functions of the director and the
operation manager) were not acted upon; (ii) the M&E system was not strengthened due mainly
to the lack of proactive management, thereby unable to provide even essential project monitoring
data (e.g. multisectoral public sector response); and (iii) multisectoral public sector responses
were not recharged by an ARI process or other measures. While the project document stated that
it put more emphasis on BCC, no data were available to support it. The activities that would have
provided the important information and improved its development effectiveness (e.g. planned
study on the epidemiology of HIV/AIDS in The Gambia targeting the possible core transmitter,
mapping of high risk group4, shifting from purely IEC interventions to IEC/BCC targeting the
geographical areas with relatively higher prevalence rate) were not implemented. Also, the NAS
was unable to secure the additional resources either from the Global Fund or the Government,
except for about GMD 1.8 million from the operational budget of NAS for year 2007.

2.3.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
22.      M&E design. See Section 2.1

23.      M&E implementation. There were a number of critical M&E activities carried out under
the Project. These include (i) sentinel surveillance studies (SSS 2001-2005, SSS 2006 are
currently underway), with technical support from the Medical Research Center (MRC); and (ii)
behavior surveillance studies (BSS 2002 & 2005). Although interpretation of these surveys needs
some cautions,5 these studies provided much needed information for the country to measure
trends in prevalence of HIV and knowledge, attitudes, and practice (KAP) with respect to
HIV/AIDS and PLWHAs.               The CCSI assessment conducted in 2006 also provides useful
information on how the implementation of the CCSI component went and perception of the sub-
project grantees about the CCSI. However, many of the M&E activities planned during the
project preparation were not carried out satisfactorily. While technical assistance (TA) was
provided throughout the implementation to strengthen the Project monitoring, the M&E manual
developed was not fully utilized and recommendations of the TA were sub-optimally followed-up
partly due to lack of a result management approach and the long vacancy of the M&E officer
position. For example, semi-annual implementation progress reports, and financial monitoring
reports (FMR) were never prepared and annual reports were often prepared substantially late, if
any, only after repeated requests. Also, studies that could have improved the quality of the
project such as mapping of high risk groups and assessment of condom distribution and quality
have not been carried out, nor have development and execution of M&E (e.g. management
information system) been contracted out6 As a result, systematic monitoring of some components
was unavailable, making it difficult to link the contribution of the project to the achievements
made in the country during the life of the Project.




4Worldview The Gambia, a CCSI sub-project recipient, carried out a mapping of high risk groups (i.e.
CSW), but the scope was limited to those the project was in contact with.
5Interpretation of trend should be done with cautions due to several reasons. For example, characteristics
of participants that are correlated with sexual behaviors such as age are significantly different in two BSSs.
Also, sentinel surveillance sites have been increased from 4 in 2001 to 8 in 2005.
6 M&E of the Global Fund supported activities was contracted out to the Centre for Innovation against
Malaria. In collaboration with NAS, they have developed and used standardized tools for data collection
and a database using Microsoft Access, showing that M&E of the Project activities is very possible even in
the country where M&E is generally weak. As some of the health sector activities have been supported by
HARRP as well as the Global Fund, information generated through this database help monitor health sector
responses of the HARRP as well.




                                                    6

24.      M&E utilization. During the course of the Project's implementation, even available
information was vastly underutilized. Adjustment and modification of the targeting and strategic
reallocation of resources ­ for example providing more resources for the high risk areas - did not
happen even though such was possible based on information from the five SSS and two BSS.
While providing useful information, the development effectiveness study of CCSI was carried out
at the last minute and therefore, realization of the recommendations from the study was unlikely
to occur, given the situation that there was no substantial funding available for prevention of
HIV/AIDS in the country when the Project was completed. A limited capacity of M&E in the
NAS, unavailability of MIS (even a database covering all the Project and surveillance data), and a
weak collaboration with the implementing agencies in terms of M&E might be factors attributing
this situation.

2.4.     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
25.      Environment. The environment category of the Project at the time of appraisal was C.
Thus, the project did not need an Environmental Assessment, yet it has been decided jointly
between IDA and the Borrower to prepare a National Health Waste Management Plan for the
HARRP, in order to comply (on a retrofitting basis) with the new Bank environmental safeguards
regulations for HIV/AIDS projects. The Medical Waste Management manual was developed in
2005. No information was made available on the number of people trained on the Medical Waste
Management.

26.      Financial Management (FM). Overall, the FM system in place respected the procedures
generally accepted by the Bank. The financial management agent (FMA), by and large, carried
out the core functions (i.e. preparing and updating the project operational manual, preparing
Bank reconciliation statements, monitoring utilization of payments to implementing agencies
including CCSI beneficiaries). However, the outsourced FMA has not been fully integrated
within NAS daily operations and has not received sufficient guidance from NAS management.
Thus, the FMA could not play its role as a moderator and facilitator to improve the FM system at
the NAS and as a result, no FM capacity was built within NAS. In addition, the borrower never
complied with Legal Covenant 4.02 (DCA Article 4.02) pertaining to the full transition from the
PMR to the FMR system, nor produced integrated financial statements, including all donors
activities agreed between the NAS and the mission even though it was repeatedly pointed out by
the FM staff from the Bank.        The FMA was not able to provide the ICR team with the
expenditure table which is consistent with the one in the borrower's ICR.

27.      Disbursement. The estimated project cost at appraisal was USD 16.2 million (USD 15.0
million from IDA). The actual project cost totaled USD 18.5 million, of which USD 16.7 million
was from IDA (see Annex 1 for details). The total disbursement for the Project as of December
2006 was approximately 98% (11.6 out of 11.8 XDR) of the credit including S/A due to
devaluation of the dollar against SDR. While the project spent more than estimates at appraisal,
the GOTG had disbursed USD 0.419 million, representing 70% of the total counterpart budget
planned at the beginning of the Project. The gap can be attributed to a very low exchange rate
and an overestimated initial budget.

28.      Procurement. Difficulty of recruiting a procurement specialist significantly delayed the
procurement process in the beginning of the Project. In addition, procurement was often delayed
due mainly to the passive procurement execution, delayed decision making process by the NAS
management, and uneven workload. Many exceptions to procurement rules had been granted by
IDA in order to implement the ARI process (before the DCA was amended). However, increased
capacity of NAS procurement team (i.e. procurement training, addition of a procurement
assistant) together with continued support from the Bank procurement team based in Senegal



                                               7

improved the procurement process significantly in the later half of the project. Procurement by
the NAS was mostly carried out according to the procurement guideline, and procurement issues
that need more flexibility were reflected in the amended DCA.                          Procurement and
disbursement/financial management were managed by separate teams and this improved
transparency of the project as well.

2.5.     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
29.      The HARRP contributed to the establishment of important structures, for the fight against
HIV/AIDS in The Gambia by setting up and/or supporting entities at the national level (e.g.
NAC/NAS) as well as at the community level (e.g. NGOs/CBOs). The NAS is widely recognized
as a coordination authority for the country under the three ones principles. It also helped the
country leverage resources from the Global Fund Round Three (USD 14.6 million: 2004-2009) to
step up treatment, care, and support to PLWHAs, a nice complement to the HARRP, whose
primary focus was on prevention. After successful implementation of Phase 1 activities, the
country just started the Phase 2.

30.      However, the country currently faces several major challenges: the NAS was unable to
secure the legal status through an Act of Parliament and therefore has to rely only on a modest
budget allocation under the Office of President (about GMD 1.8 million). While the TA was
provided and the Bank supervision team continuously brought up the much needed management
reform issue based on the OE assessment, the NAS has not acted on, and ineffective management
of the NAS remains as a risk.          No follow-up project in the pipe line, together with two
unsuccessful applications to the Global Fund makes it difficult for the country to sustain any
achievement made by the Project.

31.      To continue at least a minimum level of interventions and monitoring of bio-behavioral
status, a follow-up arrangement is recommended. While it is unlikely to have a follow-up project
because of few concrete outcomes at this point, there should be an active discussion between the
NAS and the Department of State for Local Government and Lands to examine the possibility of
supporting activities related to HIV/AIDS at the community level under the `Community Driven
Development Project.' The follow-up project, if decided in the future based on the outcomes of
such endeavor, should consider "results-based disbursement" to ascertain effective and efficient
utilization of limited resources.


3.       Assessment of Outcomes
3.1.     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
32.      Relevance is rated as substantial because: (i) the objective of HARRP is highly relevant
to the country's current development priorities and the CAS7; and (ii) design and implementation
could have been improved by focusing more on high risk groups and behavior changes. The
Project supported the development and expansion of interventions that are relevant to three of the
five pillars of The Gambia PRSP 2002, which is well with the CAS: (i) improve basic social
services and infrastructure: project financed five reproductive health centers, VCT and treatment
of TB, STI, and HIV, among others; (ii) build capacity building of local community and civil
society organizations: more than half of the Project budget was allocated to the CCSI component,


7As described in Section 1.1, the HIV/AIDS project was not directly mentioned in the previous CAS.
Instead, a population policy LIL was envisioned in the 1998 CAS in order to assist the Government in
intensifying the demand-driven efforts related to family planning and HIV prevention. With the approval
of the 1999 HIV/AIDS strategy and creation of MAP in 2000, the initial preparatory work for the
population policy LIL operation has been subsumed into HARRP.




                                                   8

which was able to support 3,881 sub-projects all over the country; and (iii) strengthen
multisectoral programs to reduce HIV/AIDS: while implementation of multisectoral responses
was less than satisfactory, the Project was able to support the development of the action plan of
nine ministries and created the necessary structure at the central and divisional levels for the
multisectoral responses.

33.      However, the project fell short of the current standard with respect to design and
implementation in the following areas: (i) targeting - considering a relatively low prevalence of
HIV/AIDS among pregnant women in the country and unavailability of information on high risk
groups, a second generation surveillance was planned, but was not carried out during the life of
project; and (ii) behavior change - despite the high level of awareness of HIV/AIDS known at the
early stage of the project, the majority of sub-projects involved sensitization and awareness
programs. While the rule of "two new projects on behavior change for every sensitization
project" was proposed during the MTR, it has not been applied.

3.2.     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
34.      The overall efficacy of the project is rated modest.
PDO 1: Maintain the current low levels of the epidemic/reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS
epidemic

35.      Considering the relatively stable prevalence of HIV among pregnant women,8 but weak
evidence of causal linkages with the outcome, and the contribution of the project, this PDO is
rated as modest. As is the case in many other countries, the incidence rate of the HIV is not
available in The Gambia and the trend is monitored through prevalence of HIV among pregnant
women (15-49y). As detailed in Annex 10, the prevalence of HIV-19 in this group steadily
increased from 1.3% in 2000 to 2.1% in 2004. The prevalence was subsequently reduced to 1.1%
in 2005.10 The 2006 prevalence has not been made available yet and therefore, it is not clear at
this point whether the prevalence is on the decline. In the absence of incidence rates, the ICR
team reviewed the prevalence of HIV-1 among pregnant women 15-19 years to assess the new
infection trend among this group. The prevalence was 0.3% in 2005 compared to 1.1% in 2004.
The estimated incidence rate was also relatively constant (around 0.1-0.2), except for the spike of
0.65% in 2004.

36.      While the trend of prevalence shows somewhat encouraging signs at least in 2005, the
causal linkage of the project and the trend seems weak. Two BSSs done in 2002 and 2005 show
that the proportion of people who have had exposure to HIV interventions11 has decreased;
knowledge about HIV/AIDS (i.e. transmission and prevention) and use of condoms among
unmarried young people (15-24y) has not improved (see result framework analysis in data sheet




8 UNAIDS (2006) reported a little higher prevalence of HIV among adults (15-49y) with no significant
change between 2003 (2.2%) and 2005 (2.4%). The ICR team used the SSS data to assess PDO1 because
of availability of sub-rational data and that of HIV prevalence among young adults (see Annex 10).
9Prevalence of HIV-2 was on the decline since 1993 (see Annex 10).
10A decline in HIV prevalence could be due to high mortality among PLWHAs, but it is unlikely as more
treatment was available for HIV itself and OIs in 2005. No data are available on treatment quality.
11Exposure to interventions was measured by asking of the subjects if they had heard or seen any messages
about HIV in the last 12 months. Considering the vastly inadequate level of funding for HIV before 2002
and numerous IEC interventions supported by the project between 2002 and 2005, this result is surprising:
Data quality may be an issue.




                                                     9

and Annex 11 for details).12 Desired behavioral outcomes such as delayed sexual activity among
the unmarried were found, but only among unmarried young men, especially those aged 15-19
(53.9% in 2002 vs 69.5% in 2005). One possible factor that has positively influenced the
downward trend in HIV prevalence might be a lower prevalence of STI: reported STI cases have
significantly decreased from 8.1% in 2002 to 3.7% in 2005. As of Oct 2006, 61 facilities were
offering STI treatment and part of service expansion was supported by the Project. However,
incomplete STI service utilization data in the clinic prevented the ICR team from linking such to
favorable outcomes by region.

PDO 2: Mitigate the effects of HIV/AIDS:
37.      This PDO is also rated modest, considering (i) the small proportion of sub-projects under
CCSI whose primary target was high risk groups and PLWHAs; (ii) the limited data proving the
contribution of the HARRP to supports provided to high risk groups and PLWHAs; and (iii)
relatively plausible contribution of the HARRP to reduced stigmatization,

A. Support provided to PLWHAs and risk groups
38.      According to the Project results framework, the Project intended to provide (i) outpatient
care for HIV positive individuals at primary level, (ii) care for terminally ill patients, and (iii) care
for bereaved families. However, the only indicator included, and therefore monitored by the
Project, was "access to treatment for STI, TB, and other OIs." At the end of the project, 61
facilities provided the treatment for STI and other OIs and 11 facilities provided that for TB (see
Annex 2 and results framework analysis in data sheet for details). A Global Fund progress report
shows that, as of September 2006, 9138 people were on treatment and/or prophylaxis for OIs; 418
HIV infected people were on ARV; and 1274 orphans and vulnerable children as well as 816
chronically ill adults received free basic external support (see Annex 2 for details). While the
ICR team was not able to determine the physical contribution of HARRP to these achievements
due to limited data, the financial contribution data of HARRP and the Global Fund show that they
were complementary: the HARRP initiated many services through ARI and the Global Fund
program continued by leveraging the system and infrastructure supported by the HARRP.

39.      About 4.5% of CCSI grants were spent on 605 PLWHAs and 1,852 people from high risk
groups (e.g. CSW, truck drivers, etc), even though these groups might have been targeted
indirectly. Types of mitigation measures offered to these groups under CCSI and outcomes are
not available.13

B. Destigmatization to help the affected family to live better life and promote an open dialogue
about HIV/AIDS     14

40.      Two BSSs show that unfavorable attitudes towards the PLWHAs have decreased
significantly between 2002 and 2005 (see table below). Information on actual behavior change is
not available.



12Preliminary results of the MICS 2005/6 shows that knowledge has improved significantly compared to
MICS 2000. MICS and BSS, however, do measure the level of knowledge differently and the data set was
not available.
13 The NAS has the reports from the grantees, but there is no database summarizing the activities. While
the CCSI coordinator and the ICR team tried to compile the information as much as possible, such
information was not included in the database created during and after the ICR mission due to the limited
time (see Annex 2, component 4 for details).
14 While indicators to measure de-stigmatization are not included in the project results framework, it is
important part of mitigating the effect of HIV/AIDS and therefore included in the assessment.




                                                  10

                                                                2002                    2005
                                                       Male Female      Total   Male   Female    Total
Willing to share meals with a HIV (+) person           48.1    37.3     42.8    68.0    57.7     62.9
Willing to care for a relative with HIV                92.1    60.5     76.8    90.0    84.7     87.3
Allow HIV(+ )students to continue attending school     75.7    52.6     64.3    78.2    71.6     74.9
Source: ICR team using 2002 and 2005 BSS data

41.      Given the fact that most external funding for HIV control program in the country was
provided through the HARRP (USD 15 million out of USD 16.1 million; UNAIDS 2004) before
the Global Fund resource was available in late 2004 and that the objective of the Global Fund
project was to provide quality treatment and care programs, rather than prevention, it is likely that
contribution of the HARRP to changing people's attitudes is significant.

3.3.     Efficiency
42.      Efficiency is rated as modest. Under the overall MAP framework, almost half of HARRP
resources was used to mobilize a broad range of actors especially communities and civil societies
for the fight against HIV/AIDS. As a result, 3,881 sub-projects were awarded and nearly a third
of the population was reached during the life of the Project. The rapid expansion of the HIV
programs came, however, at the cost of low efficiency. Even though The Gambia has shown a
concentrated epidemic, the proportion of sub-projects whose primary target was high risk groups
and PLWHAs were only half percent with about 4.5% of grants spent on these groups.
Throughout the implementation period, the primary focus of most sub-projects was on IEC,15
possibility due to low capacity of newly formed NGOs/CBOs.16 This might have contributed to
unimpressive progress made on behavior changes such as condom use, even though the CCSI
component spent more than USD 21 per beneficiary (see Annex 2, component 4 for details) and
over 4 million condoms were distributed.

43.      Over the period from 2003 to 2007, the interventions supported by both HARRP and
Global Fund averted about 133 estimated deaths from HIV and the estimated cost per death
averted over the same period was around USD 18,000 (see Annex 3 for details).17

3.4.     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
44.      While prevalence of HIV among pregnant women remained under 2% during the life of
the Project (except for 2004 when the prevalence went up to 2.1%), there are limited data
supporting the attribution or contribution of the Project to this achievement; two out of three
outcome indicators that could influence the incidence ­ prevention knowledge and behavior ­ did
not meet the targets by the end of the project. In addition, the project could have been much more
efficient by putting more emphasis on high risk groups and behavior change, as suggested many
times during the preparation and implementation of the Project. Thus the overall outcome rating
is moderately unsatisfactory, based on substantial relevance, modest efficacy and modest
efficiency.

3.5.     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

15Subprojects whose delivery methods were lectures/workshops were used as a proxy of IEC projects (see
details in Annex 2)
16According to the assessment of CCSI (2006), 56% of NGOs and 43% of CBOs were formed before 2002.
17Currie et al (2005) estimated that the ART cost per death averted ranges from USD 11,000 to 20,000.




                                                  11

45.     The ICR team did not undertake a specific assessment on gender issues. However,
limited interviews with female beneficiaries of the CCSI sub-projects showed that it is culturally
very difficult for women to demand behavior change, such as the use of condoms. Even though it
is widely known, many sub-projects still targeted only women. This might explain why risk
behaviors for HIV have not changed much during the life of the project, while some knowledge
and attitude especially among women have improved. Gender sensitive project design does not
mean that the Project should target more women. The Project should pay more attention to
building an enabling environment for women to make an informed choice. At least, the project
created an enabling environment within which vulnerability of women with respect to HIV/AIDS
could be much more openly discussed.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
46.     See Section 2.5 for institutional development at the national level, its achievements, and
challenges.

47.     Decentralization of CCSI management to the divisional level (e.g. DACs) has made the
rapid scale up of CCSI possible. Although involving a broad range of actors reduced the
efficiency of the Project, the capacity built in the community could be used in the future. For
example, the development effective study shows that CCSI strategy contributed not only to the
increased NGO/CBO participation in the national response to HIV/AIDS, but also to the
empowerment of these organizations by ensuring legal status (i.e. formal registration was one of
selection criteria) as well as by improving knowledge and skills on HIV/AIDS and other issues
such as communication and financial management. Weak capacity of internal income generation
and resource mobilization still remains a threat.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
48.     There are no unintended outcomes and impacts that are measured.               However, a
development effectiveness study of CCSI shows that some of the CCSI strategies, such as
promotion of condom and safe sex education in the mass media, were seen as `non-Islamic and
not culturally friendly' by some respondents. They suggested promotion of abstinence and
faithfulness rather than giving condoms as alternative ways of minimizing the negative effects.

49.     On the other hand, the promotion of condoms was perceived by others as a factor that
lowered teen pregnancy. Significant reductions in polygamous marriages and wife inheritance as
well as female circumcision were also reported: no recent quantitative data are available to verify
these perceptions.

3.6.    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops: N/A


4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

50.     During the life of the Project, several significant changes have been made to reduce the
risk to development outcomes: the country adapted National HIV/AIDS strategy 2003-2008 as
well as National M&E Framework. Service for the prevention, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS
has expended and capacity to monitor trend of HIV prevalence has been enhanced (i.e. sentinel
surveillance). In addition to financial support provided by the Global Fund for mainly treatment
and care , but also for prevention (i.e. VCT and PTCT), UN technical agencies in the country are
working with the NAS to update national strategic plan (including M&E plan), to secure funding
for sentinel surveillance, and to help legalize it through the Act of Parliament.



                                                12

51.      In spite of these, risk to development outcomes remains substantial due to the
followings:
         institutional risk: high level commitment has diminished and diverted (e.g. irregular and
         infrequent meetings of NAC, recent Gambian president's claim to cure AIDS) and the
         NAS has failed to perform its full function until the end of the Project; while NAS was
         created through a cabinet resolution as a sub-vented agency under the Office of the
         President, sustainability of the institution that can lead multisectoral responses is
         questionable (e.g. the recent transfer of NAS as a sector under the DoSH and back-
         transfer to the Office of the President): some well-performing staff have already left the
         Secretariat and remaining staff complain of ineffective management style. Due to limited
         funding, while the government contribution to HIV/AIDS programs has increased,
         decentralized management through DACs might not be able to continue;
         operational risk: high turn-over of staff in the NAS resulted in knowledge gaps and two
         rounds of unsuccessful applications to the Global Fund created funding gaps for HIV
         prevention in the medium term. The compartmentalized operation structure also prevents
         staff from sharing technical know-how. Despite the fact that the NAS was set up to
         coordinate multi-sectoral responses, complete information on HIV/AIDS responses
         carried out by other stakeholders (e.g. line departments) was not available. In addition,
         lack of MIS that links available data within, as well as outside the NAS has limited
         strategic utilization of available information; and
         technical risk: while the Project supported quite a few successful schemes through CCSI,
         expansion of these schemes was limited and lessons learned have not been fully shared
         with others. Until the end of the Project, the NAS was unable to carry out some activities
         (e.g. studies on high risk group) which could have provided essential information to
         better guide its operation. The President's recent controversial claims and treatment trials
         not backed by the scientific community could also raise confusion in the public,
         undermining the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The Bank team provided various support whenever necessary to mitigate many of these risks, yet
the follow-up activities of the borrower were usually sub-optimal, resulting in many risks that
were unaddressed until the end of the project (see Section 2.2 and Section 5)


5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1.     Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: moderately satisfactory
52.      Under the MAP framework, the Bank team prepared the project in a very short time by
incorporating lessons learned from the global and country experiences at that time to ensure
sound design and implementation arrangement in the area of HIV prevention; these include
creating strong commitments from high level leadership in the fight against HIV/AIDS,
contracting out financial management, and engaging various actors for rapid scale-up actions.
Also the team sought synergies between HARRP and PHPNP to maximize the benefits (e.g.
continued support of the social marketing program by HARRP that started with PHPNP).

53.      However, the fast track preparation of the project fell short of the operational standards
described in Section 2.1 such as insufficient analysis of country and sector issues and
unavailability of overall strategic plan including M&E framework before the effectiveness of the
project.   Overestimated absorptive capacity of key actors due partly to unavailability of
institutional analysis during the project preparation significantly delayed the project
implementation. No plan of mitigating this risk was included other than re-allocation. A more or



                                                 13

less acknowledged problem with staffing was also a key issue that was not addressed during the
preparation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: moderately satisfactory
54.     The bank team was proactive in several areas of supervision. For example, the team's
composition during the routine implementation support missions was generally well balanced and
field based fiduciary staff provided continued support to the improvement of procurement and
financial management.       The TTL actively provided TAs to the Government in order to
counterbalance weak capacity of the NAS, whenever necessary, throughout the implementation
(e.g. M&E, organizational effectiveness). In addition, the supervision team arranged the ARI
process to accelerate the project implementation and a QER following the MTR to examine the
status of the project with an expert panel and in particular to better address several bottlenecks.

55.     On the other hand, following shortcomings were also noticed: M&E was not adequately
followed up and the late submission, if any, of monitoring reports by the Government was
accepted without any mitigation measures for the following period. As a result, the project never
fully adapted the FMR system, nor produced integrated financial statements. Annual reports, not
to mention the quarterly progress reports envisioned during the project preparation, were not
available on time to review and improve the quality of implementation.                While internal
management issues of the NAS that delayed the project implementation were noticed both by the
Bank team as well as many staff in the NAS (e.g. ineffective decision making mechanism), these
issues were not sufficiently brought to the attention of the Bank management team and the high
level leadership of the GOTG. Some critical issues identified by the team (e.g. inadequate
enumeration structure of the project staff which created a continuous problem of staffing) could
have been benefited from the Bank management's interventions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: moderately satisfactory
56.     Given the short period of time given to the project team under the emergency operation,
the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was rated moderately satisfactory despite some
shortcomings stated above. While the project team provided various TAs proactively, in addition
to routine implementation support to enhance implementation capacity, the follow-up actions
were somewhat limited both by the project team and/or the management. Therefore, the overall
bank performance was rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2.    Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: moderately unsatisfactory
57.     During the fast pace of project preparation and early phase of the implementation, high-
level leadership in the GOTG showed the unprecedented efforts to prevent and control the HIV
epidemic by advocating the fight against HIV/AIDS.              However, such advocacy was not
accompanied by actions throughout the implementation. For example, the NAC was not fully
functional until the end of the project with irregular meetings. The Government's decision to
reduce the salary scale of the NAS staff well below the market level (e.g. that of NGOs) made the
NAS difficult to fill the essential positions, not to mention a low motivation for the NAS staff to
be proactive. While the external funding was significantly increased due to the HARRP and GF,
the HIV internal budget has remained relatively constant. A recent controversial claim by the
President that he has discovered a cure for AIDS raised concerns among health workers and




                                                14

international donor communities. This has the potential to undermine gains made as a result of
long-lasting outreach and prevention efforts.

(b) Implementing Agency (National AIDS Secretariat) Performance
Rating: moderately unsatisfactory
58.      Establishment of NAS itself was a quite an achievement in The Gambia: the NAS has act
as a coordination agency in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and played a leading role to bring the
Global Fund to the country. NAS also spearheaded several important actions to improve the
effectiveness of the implementation. One of such is decentralization of CCSI management to the
regions.

59.      However, NAS and its effectiveness experienced many issues. The initial staffing of
NAS took longer than anticipated, and so did the implementation. A fairly significant turnover in
some essential positions was an issue throughout the life of the project. The NAS also suffered
from internal and external management issues, which further delayed the implementation of
activities or affected quality of interventions (e.g. lack of proactive communication and follow-up
with the implementers of the activities, vertical decision making process that did not allow the
technical staff to make decisions at their level, etc). While TAs (e.g. organizational effectiveness
study, M&E specialist, MTR, QER) made several recommendations on how the NAS could
improve its effectiveness and sustainability, NAS neither acted upon the recommendations nor
did it provide convincing reasons for its failure to act until the end of the project. Mechanisms to
ensure accountability (e.g. M&E) and sustainability (e.g. FMA) remain particularly weak.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: moderately unsatisfactory
60.      The overall borrower's performance was rated moderately unsatisfactory given the major
shortcomings stated above, particularly the limited efforts invested in improving effectiveness
and sustainability by the NAS and weak support system by the Government.


6.       Lessons Learned
61.      Establishment of a new institution takes time and support for effective operation is a
must. Preparing the NAS to function properly took a significant amount of time and thus delayed
the project implementation for more than a year. While it is important to ensure that the Project
starts as quickly as possible, requiring the establishment of the new institution with full core staff
as an effectiveness/disbursement condition might have been a better option. When the capacity
of the implementers is low, as was the case in The Gambia, the front-loaded capacity building
activity should be planned and implemented strategically with all the process carefully followed-
up. At the same time, dissecting the seemingly complex problems into manageable sizes (e.g.
ARI) might help especially in the beginning of the Project implementation.

62.      Multisector program requires effective coordination and communication. Although it
was envisioned to be a multi-sector program, multi-sectoral public sector responses through line
departments other than health were very limited, evidenced by low disbursement. The main
reason given was ineffective coordination and communication ­ delayed response due to lack of
coordinator responsible for multi-sectoral public sector responses. On the other hand, the CCSI
component that had a dedicated staff working closely with regional coordinators outperformed
expectation - at least in terms of scaling up.

63.      Accountability matters. Throughout the Project implementation, there were a lot of
planned actions and recommendations identified and suggested to improve the effectiveness of



                                                15

the project. However, the follow-up actions were limited due partly to unclear accountability of
actions and little incentive (and/or disincentive) for good performance (and/or bad performance).
As a result, momentum created in the beginning and rejuvenated by ARI rapidly dissipated.
When accountability is lacking, the need to have performance-based contracts with service
providers (e.g. NAS staff, NGOs, etc.) should be discussed and incorporated into the operational
functioning. Also, it is necessary to have closer supervision of the implementation inside the
country with support from other development partners.

64.      M&E is essential for a learning-by-doing project. While planned, some essential data
(e.g. mapping of high risk groups) to provide the full picture of the epidemic in the country were
not collected. Even when data that could provide essential information to strategize and prioritize
resource allocation and necessary interventions were collected during the implementation (e.g.
SSS, BSS, CCSI monitoring data), this data were under-utilized. Failure to utilize available
information for a learning-by-doing project is a key missed opportunity. On the other hand,
M&E of the GF supported activities was contracted out to a local agency, which produced regular
M&E reports of relatively good quality. It shows that M&E of the project activities is very
possible within the overall framework of the national strategy if capacity is backed by available
service in the country.

65.      Sustainability plan should be incorporated into the interventions. While the CCSI
component is one of the success stories of the project, sustainability is questionable. It is
unrealistic to expect that communities and civil societies without much capacity can sustain such
activities without continued support.      Measures to improve sustainability such as income
generating activities should be actively incorporated into the project component.        Also, an
adequate level of attention from local government should be in place to drive optimum outcomes
in the long run.


7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies: See Annex 7
(b) Cofinanciers: N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders: N/A




                                               16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest
           Components                                                                  Percentage of
                                        (USD millions)         Estimate (USD
                                                                 millions)*              Appraisal

Capacity building & policy
development                                            3.5                  5.548                  159%
Multi-sectoral responses for
HIV/AIDS prevention and care                         2.65                   0.571                   22%
Health sector responses to
STI/AIDS management                                  1.85                   2.299                  124%
Community civil society
initiatives                                            8.2             10.132**                    124%
                       Total Cost                    16.2                  18.550                  115%
*As of Dec 2006
** USD 10.13 million includes the estimated community contribution of USD 1.44 million (cash and in-
kind) from the 3,881 subproject proposals. Actual contribution was not monitored. Actual disbursement
from the IDA and the GLF is 8.69 million (106% of appraisal)

(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds                    Type of       Estimate          Estimate     Percentage of
                                           Cofinancing         (USD             (USD         Appraisal
                                                             millions)        millions)
Borrower                                                             0.6            0.419             70%
Local communities**                                                  0.6            1.443           240%
International Development
                                                                   15.0           16.688            111%
Association
*Estimated contribution (cash and in-kind) of communities and civil societies from the grant proposals.
Actual contribution was not monitored.




                                                17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Capacity Building and Policy Development
(estimate-US$3.50 million; actual-US$ 5.55 million)

Component 1 has made several notable achievements through various capital and human capacity
building activities:

Institutional arrangements: the HIV/AIDS committees at the national and regional levels (i.e.
NAC/NAS, DACs, MAC) were set up and strengthened as the national/regional coordination
authority in the fight against HIV/AIDS. NAS developed the National Strategic Plan on
HIV/AIDS: 2003-2008 based on which the country, NAS as the Principle Recipient, was able to
secure additional resources (USD 14.5 million) for treatment and care from the Global Fund.

However, the NAS was unable to legalize its status as an autonomous agency and suffered from
internal and external management issues, which significantly delayed the implementation of
activities (e.g. lack of proactive communication and follow-up with the implementers of the
activities, vertical decision making process that did not allow the technical staff to make decisions
at their level, etc). The recommendations from the organizational effectiveness assessment were
not followed-up until the end of the project.

Capacity building & other strategy development: various trainings were provided to strengthen
the capacity of stakeholders so as to carry out their respective tasks. While it was planned to be
developed at an early stage of the project, IEC/BCC strategy was developed only in 2006.
Therefore, many IEC/BCC activities financed under the project hardly benefited from the strategy
developed

M&E: See Section 2.1 and 2.3

Component 2. Multi-sectoral Responses for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care
(estimate-US$2.65 million; actual-US$ 0.57 million)

Component 2 was consistently rated unsatisfactory/moderately unsatisfactory during the life of
project due to the slow implementation while several line departments such as Education and
Defense were quite successful in scaling up the activities. The main reasons for slow
implementation include: (i) lack of ownership and low political commitment of high rank
officials in the respective Department of State; (ii) high turn over rate of the focal points; and (iii)
cumbersome procedure to access funds (e.g. the focal points have to submit each activity proposal
in addition to umbrella plan of actions to access fund); (iv) lack of staff in charge of the
component in the NAS.

Together with a weak M&E system in place and about a year of vacancy of the M&E Specialist
in 2005, the NAS was not even able to provide a summary of activities carried out by each line
department at the end of project to the ICR team. The table below shows the beneficiaries of
sensitization and training as well as condom distributed by Departments of State at the MTR.




                                               18

Table. Results of various activities by line departments
Department of                 Sensitization                            Training               Condom
State for         Sessions     Men Women Total Sessions Men Women Total                      distributed
Interior and
Religious Affairs         68    1,981     629    2,610          7      174       31      205     277,120
Defense                   31      761     361    1,122                                            64,800
Agriculture               31    1,148   1,764    2,912          4      117       18      135      45,770
Health                    24      434     460      894         12      269      150      419   2,306,016
Education                 13      680     150      830          2       37       23      60        7,200
Youth and Sports          14      226     114      340          3       58       27      85
Tourism and
Culture                   18      496     262      758
Local Gov't and
Lands                      3       50      25       75          1       14       10      24
Total                   202     5,776   3,765    9,541                 669      259      928   2,700,906
Source: MTR presentation, NAS


Component 3. Health Sector Responses to STI/HIV Management
(estimate-US$1.85 million; actual-US$2.30 million)

The health sector response before the ARI (January-April 2004) was slow and mostly limited to
development of manuals (e.g. STI drugs and STI management manuals), training (e.g. training of
health workers on STI management), procurement/distribution of condom, and testing of blood
supply. During the ARI, the health sector focused its efforts and resources on service delivery
including VCT, PTCT, and ARV with an impressive achievement within 90 days. Also, the
effective procurement and logistical systems for ARVs, OIs, and other supplies was put in place
through the process. However, the momentum acquired through the ARI process did not continue
long enough, and many additional activities planned to scale up the health sector response were
not implemented at least through the HARRP due partly to complex administrative procedures to
access the fund. Instead, health sector responses in 2005 and 2006 were mainly supported by the
Global Fund which was facilitated by a dedicated administrator in the NAS. According to several
officials interviewed by the ICR team, the fact that the Global Fund is the grant and the HARRP
is credit contributed the better utilization of the Global Fund resources.

By and large, the health sector made an impressive achievement in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
Given a relatively weak monitoring system of the Project, it is, however, not feasible to calculate
the contribution of each program precisely. Also, there may be no point in assessing such from
the country's point of view as they are designed to be complementary. The financing table
confirms that they were indeed complementary. The HARRP initiated many services through
ARI and the Global Fund program continued by leveraging the system and infrastructure (i.e.
reproductive health centers) supported by the HARRP.

Table. Objective and indicators of the Global Fund
                                                                                 Sept      Sept
                                Key Indicators                                   2004     2006    Target
 Objective 1: To provide access to voluntary counseling and testing and testing for 20% of the
 population by 2006
 Number of health facilities offering VCT services                                     4      19      18
 Number of people receiving VCT services                                            800   18470     6400
 Number of health workers trained in VCT                                             30     486      110
 Objective 2: To provide access to the prevention of parents to child transmission for 30% of pregnant




                                                 19

                                                                                Sept      Sept
                                 Key Indicators                                 2004      2006   Target
mothers in The Gambia by 2006
Number of health workers trained in PTCT                                            58     486       140
Number of HV-1 infected pregnant women receiving complete course of                 35     237       560
ARV prophylaxis (Nevirapine) to reduce the risk of PTCT
Objective 3: To provide access to clinical care including the treatment and prevention of opportunistic
infections for 30% of eligible PLWHA by 2006
Number of Health facilities capable of providing advanced interventions for          2       6         7
prevention and medical treatment for PLWHAs
Number of health professionals trained in management of HIV related                 24     258       127
opportunistic infections
Number of people on treatment and or prophylaxis for opportunistic                910     9138     1530
infections
Number of service delivery points testing PLWHA for TB                               5     15*        12
Number of people identified with TB and tested for HIV infection                  100      659       700
Objective 4: To provide access to well-monitored ART for 20% of all PLWHA eligible for HAART
within 2 years
Number of treatment centers offering ART with appropriate laboratory                 2       6        18
facilities providing all essential tests for ART
Number of health care providers trained in provision of ART                         16     231        30
Number of people with advanced HIV infection receiving ART                          39     418       700
Objective 5: To provide community care to 20% of PLWHA by 2006
Number of orphans and vulnerable children whose household receive free              50    1274     1500
basic external support
Number of chronically ill adults whose households receive free basic external        3     816        27
support
Number of NGOs/private clinics providing HIV/AIDS services                           5       8         6
Objective 6: To build capacity in the health sector (government, non-government and private sector)
and civil society to provide high quality care for PLWHA by 2006
Number of health professional trained                                               16     118       100
Number of support group of PLWHA established and functional                          2       6         7
Number of operations research studies completed                                      0       4         4
Source: GFATM Q8 Report (Oct 206) . Target from the Global Fund (2007)
*NAS reported that only 11 sites are functional as of Oct 2006.

Table. Financial contribution of HARRP and the Global Fund for the Health Sector
Responses
                2003      2004            2005             2006              Total              %
              HARRP HARRP HARRP                GF    HARRP     GF    HARRP        GF      HARRP     GF
ARV Drugs                 51,688     14,871   132,830         214,234    66,559   347,064    16.1     83.9
Blood bags                48,791                               13,625    48,791    13,625    78.2     21.8
HIV Test kits             31,451               12,777          81,155    31,451    93,932    25.1     74.9
OI drugs                  59,971     92,510   256,687         128,378   152,481   385,065    28.4     71.6
Medical
equipment                293,264              247,577          78,600   293,264   326,177    47.3     52.7
Laboratory
and medical
supplies                 101,926    639,273   469,907         150,000   741,199   619,907    54.5     45.5
Procurement
of condoms      52,763                                53,907            106,670             100.0      0.0
Sentinel
surveillance    92,887    98,821     96,132                             287,840             100.0      0.0
Total          145,650 685,912      842,786 1,119,778 53,907 665,992 1,728,255 1,785,770     49.2     50.8
Source: Procurement Specialist, NAS (Oct 2006)




                                                   20

Component 4. Community and Civil Society Initiatives (CCSI)18
(estimate-US$8.20 million; actual-US$10.13 million)

Component 4 suffered from initial delays due mainly to the difficulty of recruiting coordinators.
Until the end of second year (2002), only 29 projects were approved. With the appointment of all
the divisional coordinators by the middle of 2002, the component gained momentum and
implemented more than 3,700 subprojects across the divisions in literally three years before the
original closing date of the project (Dec 31, 2005). As of November 2006, a total of 3,881 sub-
projects were approved and GMD 242 million (USD 8.6 million), which was matched by over
GMD 40 million in-kind and cash contributions from the communities and civil societies, was
disbursed for the implementation of HIV/AIDS related activities in The Gambia. The majority
were category C sub-projects (98%) which received nearly half of the funds (USD 4.1 million).
Almost all category C sub-projects were implemented by CSOs (97%). Lectures and workshops
were most commonly used methods of delivery (76%).

During the course of the project, CCSI component reached almost half million recorded
beneficiaries, in addition to many more Gambians reached by the mass media and various events.
The majority of sub-projects were targeted general public (69%; e.g. villagers, women's group
members) and youths (30%) and the proportions were relatively constant during the life of the
Project. The cost per beneficiary, calculated by dividing the total cost by recorded beneficiaries,
was USD 21.1 excluding the administration cost of staff at the NAS and CCSI coordinators. The
cost per person, calculated by dividing the total cost by population, under an unrealistically
optimistic scenario in which CCSI reached all the population at least through the mass media19
and events was USD 7.4.

Table. Number of beneficiaries and total cost of sub-projects by divisions (as of Oct 2006)
                           No. Beneficiaries        Total cost (USD)*      Population     Cost/         Cost/
            Population    Before        After      Before        After      covered    beneficiary+    person+
              (2003)    adjustment adjustment adjustment adjustment           (%)         (USD)         (USD)
                 a          b             c           d            e          c/a          e/c           e/a
BJL             34,828       5,275        8,314      252,958      338,003          24         40.65         9.70
CRD            185,897      57,219       73,442      894,304 1,348,237             40         18.36         7.25
KMC            322,410      79,398      107,534 1,734,654 2,521,933                33         23.45         7.82
LRD             72,546      33,681       40,012      632,263      809,409          55         20.23        11.16
NBD            172,806      39,324       54,404      674,484 1,096,451             31         20.15         6.34
URD            183,033      60,856       76,829      746,944 1,193,884             42         15.54         6.52
WD             392,987      82,081      116,376 1,807,301 2,766,918                30         23.78         7.04
Multi-
division**                 119,076                 3,331,928
Total       1,364,507      476,910      476,910 10,074,836 10,074,836              35         21.13         7.38
*Total cost is the sum of disbursement from HARRP and community contributions; USD1=GMD28
**50 out of 3,881 subprojects were implemented in more than one division. The number of beneficiaries
and total cost of these subprojects are proportionally distributed across the divisions according to the
population of each division.


18Information provided here is from the database created during and after the ICR mission by the CCSI
coordinators at the national and divisional levels as well as the ICR team. Due to the incompatibility of
data each regional coordinator had and the ad-hoc nature of data compilation, quality of some data,
including the primary target group of the subprojects and the types of interventions might be sub-optimal.
Therefore, the information presented below should be interpreted with cautions.
19The Proportion of survey participants who neither listened a radio nor watched a television in the past 4
week was about 7% in 2002 BSS and 10% in 2005 BSS.




                                                    21

Achievement. The most prominent achievement of CCSI component is empowerment of
communities and civil societies. According to a development effectiveness study, the majority of
the sub-project grantees agreed that funds available through CCSI enabled them to improve (i)
their skills such as proposal writing, financial management, financial reporting, and lobbing
skills; (ii) their status, as the registration was a criterion of applying CCSI funds; and more
importantly (iii) their knowledge and attitudes towards HIV/AIDS and PLWHA. The participants
also reported many other positive changes such as improved knowledge and attitudes towards
condom use and safe sex (e.g. willingness to discuss) and better involvement of opinion and
religious leaders in HIV/AIDS prevention. Unintended positive outcomes reported include the
reduced teen-age pregnancy and harmful cultural practices such as female circumcisions even
though these cannot be verified with the quantitative data.

Shortcomings. While the data show significant achievements in addressing the epidemic through
the community and civil society, there are several shortcomings. These include:

  Weak M&E: M&E of the CCSI was planned to be contracted out to: (i) monitor the
  implementation progress; (ii) identify key social and cultural development issues, particularly
  with regard to the outcomes for the poor, youth, women, PLWHAs, and other vulnerable
  groups; (iii) evaluate institutional and social organizational issues for mitigation(e.g. inequitable
  access to project activities for especially those that are currently not empowered and/or face
  other obstacles); and (iv) redefine targeting framework. However, M&E functions of CCSI
  were never contracted out and effectiveness of CCSI scheme was not measured. While the
  results of a study on effectiveness of sub-project administration provide useful information, it
  was only completed at the end of 2006, leaving no time to improve the administration processes
  during the life of project.20
  Focus on IEC: while the NAS and the Bank discussed and agreed numerous times that CCSI
  would focus on BCC, rather than IEC (e.g. sensitization) throughout the implementation, the
  limited data available show that that didn't happen. The main delivery mode of most sub-
  projects was lectures/workshops, which were less likely to yield behavior changes (e.g.
  utilization of preventive measures). The proportion of sub-projects whose main delivery modes
  were lectures/workshops was almost constant during the life of the Project and the disbursement
  for these types of activities was even increased by year.
  Weak targeting of priority groups: even though priority groups might have been targeted
  indirectly, the proportion of sub-projects whose primary target was high risk groups and
  PLWHAs was only half percent with about 4.5 % of grants spent on these groups. During the
  extension period, however, there was some improvement compared to the previous year due
  possibly to a renewed focus on priority groups.




20Shortcomings reported in the survey include low transparency on decision making, limited guidance on
application process and pragmatic M&E, lack of sustainability , and low women's participation in decision
making




                                                   22

               % subprojects whose main delivery mode                        % subprojects whose primary target was
                      was lectures/workshops                                          risk groups/PLWHAs
             80                                                             8

   (%) 60                                                         (%) 6
   onti      40                                                   onti      4
       or                                                             or
         oprP20                                                         oprP2

              0                                                             0
                 2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   Total                     2002   2003    2004   2005   2006   Total

                   Number of sub-projects   Disbursement                         Number of sub-projects Disbursement


Number of subprojects
                            2002          2003           2004                 2005           2006          Total
BJL                                 4              7            27                    9                           47
CRD                                 2            44            198                  346             39          629
KMC                                 6            147           214                  187             28          582
LRD                                 1            80            219                  201             26          527
NBD                                 4            31            256                  216             24          531
URD                                              124           246                  183             13          566
WD                                  5            94            422                  394             34          949
Multi-division                      7              7            23                   13                           50
Total                              29            534         1,605                1,549           164          3,881

Disbursement from HARRP (GMD) ­ IDA only
                            2002          2003           2004                 2005           2006          Total
BJL                          280,400        352,110      5,200,481              638,665                   6,471,656
CRD                           88,455      1,643,050      9,016,385           10,798,150       977,700    22,523,740
KMC                          121,072     10,424,810     18,600,429           11,929,253       844,831    41,920,395
LRD                           42,872      1,978,446      7,522,543            5,131,849       855,263    15,530,973
NBD                          411,184      1,532,112      9,006,194            5,506,547       741,414    17,197,451
URD                                       4,121,127      8,492,005            5,418,336       673,730    18,705,198
WD                           221,961     14,861,935     14,901,929           13,743,904      1,256,800   44,986,529
Multi-division            18,602,126     30,202,195     17,536,563            8,023,145                  74,364,029
Total                     19,768,070     65,115,785     90,276,529           61,189,849      5,349,738 241,699,971

Number of Beneficiary*
                            2002          2003           2004                 2005           2006          Total
BJL                              395          1,260          3,120                  500                        5,275
CRD                                 0         4,188         23,033               27,468          2,530       57,219
KMC                              260         14,302         14,834               48,702          1,300       79,398
LRD                                30         4,235         16,232               11,274          1,910       33,681
NBD                              350          1,794         24,473               11,457          1,250       39,324
URD                                          17,486         24,797               17,278          1,295       60,856
WD                               152         26,436         31,634               21,932          1,927       82,081
Multi-division                     75        87,465         15,239               16,297                     119,076
Total                          1,262        157,166       153,362               154,908         10,212      476,910
* The number of beneficiary is a gross underestimation as beneficiaries of some activities (e.g. mass media
and events) are not recorded and/or reported.




                                                       23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. The Economic Impacts of HIV/AIDS

HIV/AIDS affects economic activity in several ways. It leads to decreases in productivity,
increased absenteeism of the economic work force and increased turn-over with its associated
costs (Haacker, 2004a). Moreover, HIV/AIDS depletes the stock of human capital as skilled
workers die prematurely. Furthermore, increased out-of pocket expenditures for health reduce
household's savings. Studies for South Africa reveal that HIV/AIDS related expenditures amount
to 25% of the income of a household worker in urban areas and up to 50% in rural areas (Salinas
& Haacker, 2006). Social capital is also eroded specially due to the stigma associated with the
disease (Gaffeo, 2003). At the same time that the epidemic causes an increase in the demand for
government services (particularly in health), it can also lead to reductions in public revenues. This
occurs essentially as the tax base decreases, through the negative effects of the epidemic on long-
run output and through a number of indirect fiscal costs such as orphan support and
disbursements of pension schemes benefits related to the death of infected civil servants or
eligible individuals (Haacker, 2004b). Hence, HIV/AIDS puts considerable strains on public
finances.

In addition, HIV/AIDS contributes to the persistence of poverty as it affects not only the stock,
but also the accumulation of human capital. In fact, when parents die orphans are threatened by
financial distress and lack of care, which may lead to increases in the incidence of child labor
and/or reduce school enrollment/attendance. Therefore, the potential negative long-run impact of
HIV/AIDS on economic development can be quite substantial (Bell et al., 2006). Results on the
empirical link between the epidemic and economic growth seem to be mixed. It appears that a
majority of papers finds a negative effect, whilst others fail to find any effect at all and some even
report positive impacts on growth (see Corrigan et al, 2005 among others). Nevertheless, there is
substantial evidence that the epidemic reduces investment in human capital (Kalemli-Ozcan,
2006).

2. The epidemic in The Gambia and the Economic impacts of the HIV/AIDS Rapid
Response Project

The Gambia presents a concentrated/low prevalence HIV/AIDS epidemic. By 2005 HIV-1
prevalence rates have reversed back to their 1999 levels and incidence rates have remained stable
at around 0.2% as illustrated in the table below, except for a decrease in 2001 and a spike in 2004
that might arguably be associated with measurement errors that usually plague HIV/AIDS data.

                              HIV-1 Incidence Rates in The Gambia
                        1999          2000         2001           2002          2003           2004
Incidence Rate         0.20%         0.21%        0.11%           0.19%        0.20%          0.65%
Source: author's calculations using SPECTRUM epidemiological model.

The World Bank's US$ 16 million HARRP project that was implemented from 2001 to 2006 had
as a Project Development Objective (PDO) to slow the spread of HIV/AIDS epidemic through
provision of HIV/AIDS and STIs prevention, treatment, and care services. In addition, the
country has also elaborated a strategic plan covering the period from 2003 to 2008 in order to
guide its response to the epidemic. According to Republic of The Gambia (2005) the amount of
national funds spent by the Government on HIV/AIDS was around US$ 5.5 million in 2004. In
October of that same year, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFATM) initiated a




                                               24

treatment and care project amounting to over US$ 14.5 million in total until 2008, of which over
US$ 7 million have already been disbursed.

According to the 2005 BSS Report, in the general population around 88.7% of Gambians had
heard about HIV/AIDS through the mass media. Furthermore, 49.7% of the population correctly
identified ways to prevent sexual transmission of HIV and rejected misconceptions about HIV
transmission. Finally, 70% of males and 60% of female respondents who have had sex with
commercial partners reported using condoms. The HARRP contributed over US$ 9 million
towards prevention efforts in the country. By preventing new infections, significant direct and
indirect economic benefits can be gained in a cost effective manner, as discussed previously.

As far as treatment is concerned, the project spent US$ 2.31 million on efforts to increase access
to treatment and coverage rates for ART until 2005, when the Global Fund took over most of the
related expenditures. We will estimate the benefits of the project in terms of the number of deaths
averted, as suggested by World Bank (1996). In particular, we will concentrate our analysis on
the cost-effectiveness ratio defined as the cost of the project divided by the number of premature
deaths prevented, when compared to the counterfactual that no action is taken. According to
World Bank (ibid.) a conservative estimate of the value of a year of life saved is annual per capita
income. The demographic projections used in this analysis were obtained from the SPECTRUM
and the AIDS impact model (AIM) software packages21. The first package was used to make
general demographic projections based on data from the UN statistical division. The latter
package allows us to estimate the numbers of infections, AIDS cases and AIDS deaths, given
adult HIV prevalence. Coverage rate figures were obtained from the UNAIDS website.

The figure below illustrates the number of deaths due to AIDS under different scenarios. One can
estimate the number of deaths averted simply by subtracting the number of deaths that would
occur if the program is not implemented (No ART Scenario) from the estimated number of deaths
in the scenario where the program is adopted (Intervention Scenario) i.e. the counterfactual is that
HARRP is not implemented and no action is taken to expand treatment. The figure provides a
glance on the welfare implications of HIV/AIDS interventions, even when one only considers the
relatively short 4-year project period. According to the calculation, the cumulative number of
deaths averted thanks to the Project between 2003 and 2007 is 133. One should also bear in mind
that if efforts to avert new infections are effective, the benefits of the project will still accrue well
beyond the project period.

Over the period from 2003 to 2007 when comparing the intervention with a no-intervention
counterfactual one can estimate that the cost per death averted was around US$ 18,086. This
figure is obtained simply by dividing funds spent on treatment (including Global Fund) and the
cumulative number of deaths averted. Once again, one needs to bear in mind that those measures
are only indicative and probably understate the benefits in terms of deaths averted, since the
impact of prevention efforts persists for a number of years beyond the project period.

Overall, the project contributed to mitigate the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on development and
poverty in The Gambia. The number of deaths averted covered the effects of the project in terms
of mortality, but one should also consider the benefits of other direct impacts such as avoided
treatment costs, increased productivity as well as indirect ones such as the reduced number of



21The software packages and manuals giving further technical details are available to download at
www.futuresgroup.com




                                                25

HIV/AIDS orphans and the implications in terms of human capital accumulation and need for
support.

                Number of Deaths Due to AIDS in The Gambia (1999-2007)

        1300


        1200


        1100


        1000


        900


        800


        700


        600
                                                                     No ART
                                                                     Intervention
        500


        400
               1999   2000   2001     2002    2003    2004    2005   2006      2007



*References in Annex 9




                                           26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title               Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Elizabeth Adu             Lead Counsel                     LEGVP
Anwar Bach-Baouab         Quality Assurance Advisor
Rene Bonnel               Health Economist                 HDNGA
Jonathan Brown            Quality Assurance Advisor        HDNGA
Adriana Jaramillo         Education Specialist             MNSHD
John F. May               Sr Population and HIV/AIDS       AFTH2
                          Specialist
Southsavy Vilay Nakhavanit Administrative Client Support   AFTH3
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Richard Seifman           Task Team Leader                 AFTHV
Josef Toledano            Rural Development Specialist     RA9ES
Amadou Tidiane Toure      Procurement Specialist           AFTPC




Supervision/ICR
John F. May               Sr Population and HIV/AIDS       AFTH2
                          Specialist
Aissatou Diack            Sr Public Health Spec.           AFTH2
Bourama Diaite             Sr Procurement Spec.            AFTPC
Richard Matikanya         Consultant                       HDNGA
Ayodeji Oluwole Odutolu   Consultant                       HDNGA
Osval Rocha Andrade RomaoFinancial Management Specialis    AFTFM
Richard M. Seifman        Consultant                       AFTHV
Fily Sissoko              Sr Financial Management Specia   LCSFM
Moussoukoro Soukoule      Language Program Assistant       AFTHD
Juliana Victor-Ahuchogu   Monitoring & Evaluation Spec.    HDNGA



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                        12                        64.44
  FY01                                        40                       193.97
  FY02                                         1                         4.06
  FY03                                                                   0.00



                                        27

 FY04                                  0.00
 FY05                                  0.00
 FY06                                  0.00
 FY07                                  0.00

                   Total:      53    262.47
Supervision/ICR
 FY00                                  0.48
 FY01                                  0.00
 FY02                          15     82.17
 FY03                          17     78.94
 FY04                          23    126.10
 FY05                          19     91.77
 FY06                          17    100.17
 FY07                          23     87.71

                   Total:     114    567.34




                            28

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                     29

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                      30

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

                                OVERVIEW OF THE HARRP

The Gambia HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (HARRP) was a country program within the
context of the US$500 Million Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP).
The goal of the project was to prevent the further spread of HIV/ADS and related co-morbidity in
The Gambia such that the risk and threat of HIV/AIDS and its consequences would be minimized.
This was addressed in a manner that ensured that resources in the form of knowledge, skills and
services were availed to all communities and individuals thus empowering them to protect
themselves. The Development Objectives of the HARRP were to help organize a pre-emptive
response to the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic through a multi-sectoral approach by (i)
maintaining the current low levels of the epidemic; (ii) reducing its spread and mitigating its
effect; and (iii) increasing access to prevention services as well as care and support for those
infected and affected by HIV/AIDS.
The HARRP had four major components namely:
    1. Capacity Building and Policy Development;
    2. Multi-sectoral Response for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care;
    3. Health Sector Response
    4. Community and Civil Society Initiative (CCSI)


The HARRP which started in July 2001 was originally scheduled for completion on December
31st, 2005. However, the closure was extended to December 31, 2006 to enable the NAS sharpen
the response and allow for the completion of the implementation of key action plans. All the
legal and financial covenants of the HARRP were satisfactorily complied with. The Project
Counterpart Funds were provided on a quarterly basis. This was an indication of government
commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS. The transition from Project Management Reports to
the Financial Management Reports as outlined under Legal Covenant 4.02 (DCA Article 4.02)
has not been fully complied with.


                             ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT

The prevalence rate for HIV-1 in The Gambia has been on the increase and almost doubled
from 0.7% in 1995 to 1.2% in 2001 just when the HARRP became effective. The prevalence rate
further increased to 2.1% in 2004 sending worrying concerns that the HARRP may not actually
achieve one of its key performance indicators of reducing the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate.
However, in 2005 the country witnessed the first drop in the prevalence rate from 2.1% in 2004 to
1.1% in 2005. This drop in prevalence rate is attributed to the investment of the HARRP.

The main achievements comparing the findings of the 2002 and 2005 Behavioral
Surveillance Studies (BSSs) as a result of HARRP activities are:
 95% of those aged 15-49 years in 2002 and 2005 reportedly recognized the existence of
 HIV/AIDS
 Disaggregating the data by gender revealed that the largest knowledge gain was made in women.
 Knowledge gained on methods of HIV/AIDS prevention increased markedly among women
 from 19.2% in 2002 to 60.5% in 2005 but only slightly among men from 56.5% to 60%. This
 achievement, among women who are considered more vulnerable, is noteworthy.
 However, there are still important outstanding gaps. Comparing 2002 and 2005 BSS,
 misconceptions about the mode of transmission still exist: In both studies, about 20-30% of




                                              31

  men and 25-35% of women believe that HIV may be acquired by sharing a meal with an
  infected person or through the bite of a mosquito and there was little change over the period.

Preliminary results of Multiple Indicator Cluster Study (MICS) III, compared to MICS II, have
indicated major improvements. Between 2000 and 2006, proportion of women 15-49 who:
  correctly state the three main ways of avoiding HIV infection increased from 33.9% to 64.8%
  correctly identify three misconceptions about HIV/AIDS increased from 19.6% to 44.8%
  correctly identify mother to child transmission of HIV increased from 37.7% to 66.5%
  express a discriminatory attitude towards people living with HIV/AIDS decreased from 24% to
  16.4%
  know where to get HIV test increased from 25.2% to 54.2%
  have been tested for HIV increased from 7.2% to 13.5%

Condom Distribution: The HARRP procured and distributed over 3 million pieces of condoms
across the country. However a particular concern is that the increased levels of knowledge of
methods of prevention of HIV infection between 2002 and 2005 did not translate into increased
levels of condom use.

Table 1 : Use condom at last sexual intercourse in previous 12 months (%)
                                               2002 BSS                        2005 BSS
              Indicator                Males    Females     Total      Males    Females      Total
 People aged 15-49y
     With regular partner                35.3        17.6                 27.2        11.7
     With commercial partner             66.7        62.7                 70.0        60.0
     With non-regular partner            82.7        72.7                 65.5        48.0
 Unmarried persons aged 15-24y                                73.7                             70.3

COMPONENT 1. POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING
This component provided US$3.5 Millions to strengthen Gambia's capacity to cope with the
spread of HIV/AIDS by supporting: (i) the work of the multi-sectoral National HIV/AIDS
Council (NAC) and the Secretariat (NAS), the Divisional/Municipal AIDS Committees (DACs),
and small entities requesting proposal preparation assistance; and (ii) the development of the
National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan. The main objective of this component was to
prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in a multi-sectoral manner.

Training, Capacity Building and Partnership: The key priority areas for capacity building and
training were program management, financial and procurement management, monitoring and
evaluation, treatment, care and support especially on ART. Through funding from the HARRP,
the NAS and its partners were also exposed and participated at international fora on HIV/AIDS.
The Department of State for Health made significant contributions through staff training, (ART
PTCT, Syndromic management of STIs etc), and the provision of health services at national and
divisional level whilst the Medical Research Council (MRC) provided necessary collaboration in
the areas of research and technical assistance.

The project facilitated participation of public and private sector, PLWHAs and numerous
CBOs/CSOs/NGOs across the country. Especially, despite the strong stigma and discrimination
in The Gambia, five functional support groups (Allatentu, Jirambinora, Kubejara, Mutapula and
Lilaahe) were formed in different parts of the country in addition to Santa Yalla Support Society
(SYSS) and ganiya Kiling Society (NKS) that already existed or was at the formative stage in the
first year of the HARRP. The support groups advocated for the greater involvement of PLWHA




                                               32

in programme design, implementation and monitoring. The members of the support groups have
also been actively involved in awareness creation programmes and in most cases they serve as
resource persons in training programmes and workshops organized by CBOs and NGOs.

Development of National Strategic Plan and National HIV/AIDS Policy: The national
strategic plan (2003-2008) was developed through a participatory approach involving many
stakeholders both in the public and private sector including PLWHAs. The plan took into
account the situation of HIV/AIDS, contributing factors to the spread of the virus and the lessons
learnt from past experiences. The Strategic Plan facilitated the coordination of HIV related
activities and programmes both in the public, NGO, private sector and civil society.

The 1995 National HIV/AIDS Policy was used as the main reference document to guide the
overall national response to HIV/AIDS. However, new information on the dynamics of the
disease exposed policy gaps, such as the need for a multi-sectoral approach, prevention through
Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT), Parent to Child Transmission (PTCT), blood safety,
and increasing availability of antiretroviral therapy, which necessitated the revision of the 1995
policy in 2006. The revised policy guideline on HIV/AIDS is premised on guiding principles and
legal context taking into consideration the provisions of the 1997 constitution of The Gambia and
existing national laws and policies; broad principles of human right, social justice, equity and
people oriented development and many international human rights conventions and as well as
commitment made at international fora. The revised National HIV/AIDS Policy (2006-2010)
document is now guiding the policy makers and implementing agencies in their effort to provide
quality services in response to HIV/AIDS epidemic in The Gambia.

Financial Management, reporting and auditing arrangements: The design of the financial
management arrangements was aimed at ensuring both timely and reliable flow of funds to the
implementing entities at all levels. For this purpose, the financial management functions of the
project were contracted out to Deloitte, a private FMA. The FMA was responsible for carrying
out all matters related to the financial management of the project under the supervision of NAS.
FMA managed the principal HARRP accounts, disbursement of funds and assisted NAS
decentralized structures and partners in financial management. The FMA was also responsible for
managing grant accounts at the decentralized level. The financial statements of the project were
audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor KPS. All audit reports of reasonable scope
and detail were submitted to IDA during the implementation phase of the HARRP. All the audit
reports were not qualified.

Disbursement Arrangements: As a result of the initial teething problems, the HARRP was only
able to disburse US$ 3,261,579 for both the IDA and the GLF contribution from the GOTG
which is equivalent to about 20% of the total funds as at 2003. However project implementation
accelerated with the introduction of the ARI resulting to a rise in disbursement of US$ 5,543,227
representing 50% disbursement rate in 2004. By 31st December 2005, actual disbursement
increased to an unprecedented high level of 80%. Total balance of project funds as at the end of
2005 was about $ 3 Million. This was as a result of the depreciation of the USD against the SDR.
The total project funds following the exchange gain was US$17,212,237 from the original
allocation of US$16, 200,000.00. As at December 2006, a total of USD 17,046,675 was disbursed.




                                               33

Table 2: Disbursement By Component Per Year (USD) Including GLF Contribution
                        2002             2003        2004       2005       2006        TOTAL
   Component 1           511,997         844,633    1,052,445  2,147,763   878,602     5,435,440
   Component 2            90,352         141,607     209,753      81,270    56,868       579,850
   Component 3            96,384         179,287    1,046,017   951,604    151,419     2,424,711
   Component 4            64,419       1,332,900    3,235,012  3,376,237   598,106     8,606,674
     TOTAL               763,152       2,498,427    5,543,227  6,556,874 1,684,995    17,046,675

Procurement Management: Procurement was done by each implementing agency (e.g.
MCAC/DADs, line departments, and NGOs/CBOs) under the overall coordination of NAS,
except for major procurement items such as vehicles, office and medical equipment and supplies
and consultancy services that were undertaken by NAS (Table 3).

Table 3: Disbursement by Procurement Category
                        Category                            Amount (USD)           %*
 Goods                                                        2,396,823             54
       Office equipment, furniture                              482,647            (20)
       Promotional Materials                                     54,724             (2)
       Drugs including ARVs                                    218,288              (9)
       Medical supplies, equipment and consumables            1,506,286            (63)
       Vehicles and other                                      134,879              (6)
 Consultancy services (Excluding salaries and training)       1,759,470             39
 Works                                                         309,366                7
 Total                                                        4,465,660            100
* Percentage in the parenthesis is that of Goods

COMPONENT 2. MULTI-SECTORAL RESPONSE
This component was allocated US$2.65 Million to improve the capacity of non-health sector line
Departments to respond to the epidemic, emphasizing prevention and care. The main purpose was
to mainstream HIV/AIDS activities as part of their ongoing Departmental operations, through the
appointment of HIV/AIDS focal points and the establishment of related offices. Line
Departments of Agriculture, Interior (Police, Prisons, Immigrations), Education, Youths and
Sports, Tourism and Culture, and Defense were the active implementers of this component.

Although this component was generally associated with slow implementation, during 2002-2005
period, line departments implemented HIV/AIDS prevention activities targeting mainly staff at
the different levels. However, the component had suffered major constraints that contributed to its
slow implementation status.          Despite the problems associated with the component, some
achievements have been recorded:
· The implemented interventions have registered high level of awareness on HIV/AIDS among
    the staff of line departments.
· The capacity of a critical mass of trainers was built to handle training activities within most
    of the participating departments.
· The implementation of the component had promoted the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS
    education into sectoral programs. The Departments of state for Education and Agriculture
    have accessed funding from internal and external sources to implement interventions
    targeting staff and clients.

COMPONENT 3. HEALTH SECTOR RESPONSE




                                                 34

This component was allocated US$1.85 Million and provided the resources to the health sector to
build on the framework of the HIV/AIDS and STI management manuals adopted by the DOSH,
as well as other reproductive health and communicable disease activities currently performed by
the DOSH and its health sector partners. Under this component, the DOSH was able to implement
activities on HIV/AIDS and STI avoidance behavior by its staff and dependents, and reaching
constituencies and external target groups such as staff of other line departments and the general
public. In addition DOSH was able to enhance its reproductive health and opportunistic infection
control efforts with funds provided by the HARRP. HIV/AIDS and STI management services
were scaled up to ensure coverage and access. Interventions of particular interests include: (i)
blood safety services and HIV screening; (ii) prevention of nosocomial HIV transmission; (iii)
provision of condoms; (iv) strengthening of STI and TB services; and (v) establishment of
reproductive health clinics, VCT and care for PLWHAs.

During the implementation of the HARRP in the first and second years, it became apparent that
The Gambia needed to introduce a comprehensive treatment, care and support program as a result
of the ageing epidemic. The HARRP however, did not initially make any provision for the
introduction of ARVs. It was against this background that HARRP funding was used to access
funding from the Global Fund.                    The goals of the GF funded project is to provide the highest
standard of available treatment, care and support to PLWHA, which is accessible and affordable
in order to live in dignity and maintain a positive and productive life free from discrimination and
stigma. This in turn will lead to a favorable environment that will empower people living with
HIV/AIDS to contribute to development and ensure appropriate prevention of HIV infection. The
treatment program which is still relatively new to The Gambia, has achieved remarkable results
as indicated in Figures 1 and 2 below.

Figure 1: Uptake of VCT and OI Services                        Figure 2: Number of people reached on PTCT,
                                                               TB, ART, OVC and HBC

                       Programatic Results                                            Programatic Results


                                                                              1400
               20000
                                                                              1200

               15000                                                          1000
                                                                               800
  No. of People                                                  No. of People
               10000
   Reached                                             Target     Reached      600                                    Target
                                                       Actual                  400
                5000                                                                                                  Actual
                                                                               200

                   0                                                            0
                        VCT                   OI                                   PTCT  TB      ART      OVC   HBC

                         Service Delivery Areas                                          Service Delivery Areas




COMPONENT 4. COMMUNITY AND CIVIL SOCIETY INITIATIVES (CCSI)
The CCSI component of the HARRP provided communities and civil society organizations in
The Gambia resources and better understanding of their roles and responsibilities to prevent HIV
infections and mitigate the social and cultural impact of AIDS. Almost all national and
international NGOs have been funded to mainstream HIV/AIDS in their respective development
work, which is carried out in the various communities. The CCSI extended financial resources
and technical assistance to the very remote community based organizations (CBOs) in this
country. Efforts have also been geared at involving the active participation the private sector and
to target even further the core-transmitters (e.g. commercial sex workers, truck drivers, tourist
"bumsters", etc). Collaboration with colleagues from Senegal by initiating cross border
interventions on HIV/AIDS was also facilitated by the CCSI.




                                                             35

A total of D241,699,968.00 (Two hundred and forty one million, six hundred and ninety nine
thousand, nine hundred and sixty eight Dalasis) was disbursed to 3881 partners across the country.
This translated to a per capita disbursement of D177.63 going by the 2003 census. In 2002, only
29 subprojects were funded, peaking to 1605 subprojects in 2004. In Banjul, a total of 47
subprojects were funded during the 5 years at a cost of D6,471,656; in the Kanifing Municipality,
D41,920,395 was disbursed to 582 groups, D44,986,528 was disbursed to 949 groups in Western
Division, D15,530,973 was disbursed to 527 groups, in Lower River Region, D17,197,451 was
disbursed to 531 groups in North Bank Region, D22,523,740 disbursed to 629 subprojects in
Central River Region and D18,705,198 disbursed to 566 groups in Upper River Region.

In its efforts to sharpen the response at community level, the NAS commissioned a study on the
development effectiveness of the CCSI component of the HARRP. The findings of the study
indicated the benefits attributed to the CCSI strategy (CCSI Development Effectiveness Study,
2006) as follows:
· Positive behavioral changes in youths and women
· Reduced teenage pregnancy
· Increased access to external funding
· Improved institutional capacity for village development committee
· Increased skills and knowledge in communities
· Improved legal status of groups/CBOs
· Improved/reduced traditional practices such as female genital mutilation
· Cohesiveness of groups has increased, as well as their management and organizational skills.

Despite the gains in witnessing a very high level of awareness, 96% and the significant drop in
the prevalence rate of HIV from 2.2% to 1.1% in 2005, community and civil society
organizations have not reached the full extent of their potential and competence. There are
various reasons for this: firstly, there is a need to make available resources both financial and
technical to sustain the investments made; secondly, while awareness about the disease is very
high, behavior change still does not match the high level of awareness; thirdly, communities and
civil society organizations alone cannot win the war on HIV/AIDS with the meager resources and
limited technical expertise they have. Their efforts need to continue over an extended period of
time to avoid relapse and guarantee any sustained impact. After all we also know from experience
that prevention programs in a low prevalence country like The Gambia are not cheap contrary to
the views held by many.


           MAJOR SUCCESSES, CHALLENGES AND KEY LESSONS LEARNT

The HARRP has registered major successes in the fight against HIV/AIDS. However, like any
other development project, challenges were faced which constrained the smooth implementation.
Key lessons were also learnt which enhanced project management experience and resulted in the
refocusing and sharpening the response.

MAJOR SUCCESSES
Amongst the numerous achievements registered as a result of the HARRP intervention are the
following:
· Establishment of functional structures for the National Response: The HARRP facilitated
    the establishment of structures both locally and nationally. These included the NAC chaired
    by the President of the Republic of The Gambia Dr. Alh. Yahya A.J.J Jammeh. The National




                                               36

   AIDS Secretariat (NAS) and the Divisional/Municipal AIDS Committees at the decentralized
   level were also created and functional.
· Bank Implementation Support: The support of the Bank in funding and implementation of
   the project has been enormous. The eleven supervision mission undertaken by the Bank
   provided substantial guidance and assisted the NAS re-strategize and contributed to effective
   project implementation. The Bank also provided technical support in the areas of M & E,
   Procurement, Financial Management and accounting and overall program management.
· Reproductive Health Clinics: Five reproductive health clinics were constructed. These
   clinics serve multi-purpose functions such as referral point for VCT, care and support to
   PLWHAs, PTCT, and OVCs. These clinics are located in major health centers across the
   country.
· Involvement of 9 line Department of States in the fight against HIV/AIDS: Nine line
   departments were actively involved in program implementation.
· Institutional Strengthening and Capacity: The HARRP funded series of external and
   internal trainings where provided to enhance project implementation capacity. The training
   targeted the following: (i) the NAS staff at central level; (ii) the Divisional AIDS
   coordinators; (iii) focal persons from line departments ; (iv) decision Makers (National
   Assembly Members, Religious Leaders, Chiefs and Governors, Community Leaders); and (v)
   general public (CBOs, VSOs, Faith Based organizations, media personnel).
· Greater involvement and empowerment of PLWHAs: Through initial support from the
   HARRP and subsequently the Global Fund, seven support groups are now functional. These
   groups have recently come together to form GAMNASS (Gambia National Association of
   AIDS Support Societies), a national network of PLWHAs.
· Establishment of VCT Centers: The HARRP in collaboration with the Global Fund had
   facilitated the establishment of 19 functional VCT centers across the country. To date, more
   than 18,470 people had undergone HIV testing.
· Sentinel Surveillance Sites: The HARRP has institutionalized regular HIV prevalence
   monitoring by facilitating the creation of 9 functional sentinel sites
· High awareness about HIV/AIDS: The HARRP has facilitated the creation of high level of
   awareness on HIV/AIDS. To date the awareness is rated at 97%.
· Leveraging Additional Resources:            The Gambia through the HARRP, succeeded in
   leveraging resources available under the third round of the Global Fund for AIDS,
   Tuberculosis, and Malaria (GFATM), to the tune of US $14 million for HIV/AIDS. The NAS
   is also the Principal Recipient of the Global Fund HIV/AIDS Round 3 grant.
· The HARRP funding has setup a solid foundation for the health sector response to
   HIV/AIDS in The Gambia.
· The ARI process has re-energized the commitment and support of the highest level of
   leadership to the fight against HIV/AIDS and accelerated the provision of VCT services in
   preparation for the treatment program.

KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
Despite the major impacts of the HARRP to The Gambia's national response, challenges were
faced during project implementation.
· Lack of Project Preparatory Facility (PPF): The lack of PPF for the HARRP resulted in a
   significant delay in the acceleration of project implementation in the first year.
· Delays in the recruitment of staff: The recruitment of the key staff of the secretariat took
   longer than anticipated. For instance the project started in 2001 and staff recruitment was not
   completed until the last quarter of 2002.           This affected the acceleration of early
   implementation of the HARRP.




                                              37

· Centralization of disbursement at central level: The initial centralization of the
  disbursement of funds to beneficiaries created an initial delay and extended bureaucracy
  thereby causing late disbursements.
· Limited absorptive capacity among implementing partners: At the beginning of the
  HARRP, it was assumed that the partners at all levels would have the capacity to implement
  the project. This assumption was proven to be wrong when project implementation kicked off
  and there was an apparent limited absorptive capacity to implement.
· Slow process in mainstreaming HIV/AIDS in other sectors: Although the mainstreaming
  of HIV/AIDS activities in sector programs was widely advocated and guidelines developed,
  the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS was effective in only a few sectors.
· Lack of baseline data for the M&E framework: The absence of baseline data on key
  indicators was a major challenge and as such affected attributing success to the HARRP. In
  addition, limited capacity and expertise for M & E affected efforts to strengthen the M & E
  system of the NAS.
· Absence of a National Strategic Framework: The absence of a National Strategic
  Framework during the project design affected sharpening of the HARRP to address key
  priority areas of the national response.
· Partnerships: Meaningful and results-based programming based on true partnerships and
  cooperation among the various sectors especially the youth and women and between the
  public, civil society and the private sector was considered a challenge.
· Scaling up of the uptake services: The need to scale up the uptake of Voluntary Counseling
  and Testing (VCT) at all levels is very crucial in our collective response to the epidemic. This
  would require the scaling up of the facilities in all the divisions to increase access as well as
  the uptake of the service in response to the demand created by the CCSI intervention
· Timely reporting and liquidation of funds: Delay in the retirement and timely reporting of
  funds were problems encountered at the decentralized level. This could be attributed to the
  low level of literacy and the dependency on the extension workers who normally provide the
  service at their leisure time.
· Involvement of religious and opinion leaders: The involvement of religious and opinion
  leaders in the communities was considered crucial to the national response. Even though
  some gains have been made in this area, a few are still controversial about some of the
  strategies especially the use of condoms.
· Limited infrastructure at the decentralized level: The erratic and inadequate supply of
  electricity was a challenge to project implementation at the decentralized level.
· Sustainability: The HARRP had been the major source of funding for a multi-sectoral
  national response to HIV/AIDS. However, without an immediate successor project
  sustainability of the gains and successes may be seriously compromised.
· Inconsistent Bank Agenda: Bank comes with a different agenda which is not discussed with
  the borrower in advance and this usually confuses the NAS. At the start of the HARRP the
  Bank gave the impression that funding for the next phase was guaranteed through MAP II.
  However that promise faded away thereby causing considerable difficulties for The Gambia
  Government to provide the resources required for the sustainability of the response.

KEY LESSONS LEARNT
· The passion for the fight against HIV/AIDS was mixed. A number of partners saw the
  HARRP as a money making enterprise hence the submission of substandard proposals. This
  invariably means that the screening and review process of proposals take a much longer time
  than necessary. In some instances, the rejection of proposals led to dissent by some of
  applicants.




                                             38

· Experiences have proven that for a project to be successful all the key staff recruitment and
    establishment of functional administrative structures should be in place before actual
    effectiveness.
· The capacity of the CBOs was over-estimation during project preparation especially with
    regards retirements, reporting and even management. This was actually evident with the
    CCSI Operational Manual which was found to be too ambitious and beyond the capacity of
    most implementing partners.
· Cross border collaboration is key to a successful control of the epidemic especially in a
    country like The Gambia which is completely surrounded by Senegal. In future therefore, any
    national HIV/AIDS response program should factor some cross border interventions which
    may target priority groups such as long distance truck drivers and CSWs.
· The assumption that the Private sector had adequate resources to carry out their own
    HIV/AIDS prevention activities was wrong. The profit margin of some of the SMEs is so low
    that they hardly have enough resources to stay in business let alone commit resources to
    HIV/AIDS prevention for their staff.
· The assumption that the uptake for VCT services would be low in a low HIV/AIDS prevalent
    country like The Gambia was proven wrong during the ARI when the demand for the services
    was unprecedented. This resulted in emergency procurement of HIV test kits to meet this
    demand.
· The formation of a consortium of NGOs in the fight against HIV/AIDS was hailed as a major
    breakthrough in cementing the active role of the civil society organizations. The fact that a
    number of NGOs with different mandates and expertise can work together to respond to
    HIV/AIDS is commendable.
· The greater involvement of PLWHA especially in awareness creation put a human face to the
    virus by creating visibility thereby by leading to the reduction of stigma and discrimination
· Despite their views on the distribution and use of condoms, religious leaders are integral
    partners in an effective national response.
· Involvement of communities at all stages of our national response can bring out ownership
    and sustainability of the response to HIV/AIDS.
· Operationalization of the "Three (3) Ones" principle has a major potential in the design and
    management of an effective national response.
· Community awareness creation and interventions which results in the creation of demand for
    services should only be accelerated when such services would be easily affordable and
    accessible.


                                      THE WAY FORWARD

A lot of awareness has been created during the implementation of the HARRP. It is therefore
important to provide services such as VCT, PTCT at all levels with the view to enhancing and
sustaining behavior change. In order to sharpen the response, subsequent projects on HIV/AIDS
should focus a great deal on high risk groups or core transmitters such as CSWs, Long Distance
Truck Drivers, fisher folks, youth and women. Also, there is an urgent need for cross border
collaboration with neighboring countries especially in view of the fact that Gambia's borders are
porous. In future, HIV/AIDS interventions should endeavor to incorporate cross border
collaboration.

A key function of NAS and its decentralized structures is to mobilize resources for the national
response to HIV/AIDS. With the closure of the HARRP it is prudent to develop a comprehensive
resource mobilization plan in partnership with bilateral and multilateral donor agencies to sustain



                                               39

the response. The maintenance of the NAS and its decentralized structures is key to an effective
national response to HIV/AIDS as well as the operationalization of the Three "Ones" principles.
It is therefore important to recognize and strengthen the capacity of these structures for an
effective and coordinated response.

The HARRP through funding from IDA has generated great passion and enthusiasm to fight
against HIV/AIDS at all levels. With such a euphoria created and impact and successes achieved,
it is important for the Bank to consider a follow up project. This would greatly help in scaling up
interventions that were proven to be effective during the implementation of the first phase. At this
stage in The Gambia's response to HIV/AIDS, the Bank should not walk away from
consolidating the gains in maintaining the current low level of the epidemic, reverse the spread as
well as provide high quality care and support services.

The strengthening of partnerships at all levels will go a long way in strengthening the national
response and in our collective drive to sustain the fight against HIV/AIDS. In this vein, regular
partnership fora should be organized with a view to sharing experiences and best practices on
HIV/AIDS.




                                               40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                       41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Republic of the Gambia
  AFRI Consult Group (2006). Assessment on the development effectiveness of community
  and civil society initiatives (CCSI) component of the HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project
  (HARRP). Draft report.
  Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs (2002). Strategy for Poverty
  Alleviation (SPAII), The Republic of the Gambia
  National AIDS Secretariat (2001). CCSI Manual
  National AIDS Secretariat, Minutes of CCSI technical review committee/ream meetings
  - 2002: May, June, Sept, Oct, Dec,
  - 2003: Jan, April, Aug, Oct, Nov
  - 2004: Jan, Feb, Mar, June, July, Oct, Dec
  - 2005: Jan, Mar, Apr, June, July
  National AIDS Secretariat (2002). HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (HARRP) 2001-2005;
  Monitoring and Evaluation
  National AIDS Secretariat (2003). Behavioral Surveillance Surveys on HIV/AIDS 2002
  National AIDS Secretariat (2003). Costing of the HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2003-2008
  National AIDS Secretariat (2003). HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework 2003-2008
  National AIDS Secretariat (2004). HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (HARRP): Annual
  Report 2004
  National AIDS Secretariat (2004). MTR CCSI presentation
  National AIDS Secretariat (2005). Behavioral Surveillance Surveys on HIV/AIDS 2005
  National AIDS Secretariat (2005). Follow-up to the declaration of commitment on
  HIV/AIDS (UNGASS). The Gambia Country Report: January 2003-December 2005.
  National AIDS Secretariat (2005). HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (HARRP): Annual
  Report 2005, draft
  National AIDS Secretariat (2005). Monitoring and Evaluation Plan for the National
  HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework 2003-2008
  National AIDS Secretariat (2006). GFATM report Q8, Sept 2006
  National AIDS Secretariat (2006). HIV/AIDS treatment, care, support grant 2006-2009;
  Monitoring plan ­ framework and indicators. Phase 2
  National AIDS Secretariat (2006). National HIV/AIDS IEC/BCC Strategy
  National AIDS Secretariat (2006). Scaling up towards universal access: The Gambia Country
  Report. With Support from UNAIDS

World Bank
  Project Appraisal Document for HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project, 2000, Report No:
  21474-GM
  Development Credit Agreement for HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project, 2001, Credit No:
  3455-GM
  Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement, 2005
  Aide Memoires/Back to Office Reports
  - 2000: May (Identification), July
  - 2001: April (Launch), July (Pre-effectiveness), Nov
  - 2002: Mar, Apr (PMTCT technical support), June, Oct
  - 2003: Mar, Oct
  - 2004: Apr (MTR), Dec(QER)
  - 2005: May, Oct
  - 2006: Mar, Nov




                                           42

  Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of The Gambia, 1998, Report No. 18361-GM
  Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of The Gambia, 2003, Report No. 25436-GM
  Handbook on Economic Analysis of Investment Operations. Operation Policy Department,
  1996, Washington: DC.
  Implementation Completion and Results Report for Participatory health Population and
  Nutrition Project, 2006

Others
  Bell C et al. (2006). Economic Growth, Education and AIDS in Kenya: A Long-Run
  Analysis. World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 4025, Washington: DC.
  Corrigan P et al. (2005). AIDS Crisis and Growth. Journal of Development Economics, 77.
  Currie CS et al (2005). Cost, affordability and cost-effectiveness of strategies to control
  tuberculosis in countries with high HIV prevalence. BMC Public Health. 5: 130
  Gaffeo E (2003). The Economics of HIV/AIDS: a Survey. Development Policy Review, 21
  (1), pp.27-49.
  Haacker M (2004a). HIV/AIDS: The impact on the Social Fabric and the Economy. In
  Haacker M (ed.) The Macroeconomics of HIV/AIDS. International Monetary Fund,
  Washington: DC.
  Haacker M (2004b). The impact of HIV/AIDS on Government Finances and Public Services.
  In Haacker M (ed.) The Macroeconomics of HIV/AIDS. International Monetary Fund,
  Washington: DC.
  Harris FS and Touray KS (2004). Situation analysis of people living with HIV/AIDS and
  their support institutions in the Gambia. UNDP, Banjul, The Gambia.
  Kalemli-Ozcan S (2006). AIDS, Reversal of the Demographic Transition and Economic
  Development: Evidence for Africa. NBER Working Paper 12181, Cambridge: MA.
  Salinas G & Haacker M (2006). HIV/AIDS: The impact on Poverty and Inequality.
  International Monetary Fund Working Paper 126, Washington: DC.
  Shakow A. (2006). Global fund ­ World Bank HIV/AIDS Programs: Comparative
  Advantage Study. Prepared for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria and
  The World Bank Global HIV/AIDS Program.
  The Global Fund (2007). Grant Performance Report (GMB-304-G01-H).
  UNAIDS/ECA (2000). AIDS in Africa: Country by Country
  UNAIDS (2006). 2006 Report on the global AIDS epidemic.
  UNICEF (2003). Study on the sexual abuse and exploitation of children in The Gambia.
  Van der Loeff MFS et al (2006). Sixteen years of HIV surveillance in a West African
  research clinic reveals divergent epidemic trend of HIV-1 and HIV-2. Int J Epid. 35:1322-
  1328
  Worldview The Gambia (2005). HIV/AIDS interventions for vulnerable groups focusing on
  sex work. End of Project Report




                                            43

Annex 10. Prevalence of HIV among pregnant women

As shown in Table 1, the overall prevalence of HIV-1 among pregnant women aged 15-49 years
increased steadily until 2004, but has decreased substantially in 2005, bringing the HIV
prevalence back to the 2000/01 level. It is too early to say whether the prevalence of HIV-1 is on
the decline or it is just one time dip compared to previous years and that will rebound. Also, it is
possible that a considerable increase in 2004 is due to the measurement errors that are common
with HIV/AIDS data. Therefore, it is very important to closely monitor the results of 2006
sentinel surveillance, which is expected to be available in 2007, and thereafter.

In the absence of incidence, HIV prevalence among 15-19 years olds can be a proxy for HIV
incidence trend. One of the encouraging signs is that prevalence of HIV among pregnant women
aged 15-19 was also less than 0.3% in 2005 compared to over 1.1% in 2004. The estimated
incidence rate calculated using epidemiologic model also shows that the incidence rates of HIV-1
have remained stable at around 0.2%, except for a decrease in 2001. While it is worrisome to see
the spike of 0.65% in 2004, it might arguably be associated with measurement errors that usually
affect HIV/AIDS data (Annex 3).

During the same period, the prevalence of HIV-2 among pregnant women has continuously
declined to around 0.6%.

Table 1. Prevalence of HIV-1 and HIV-2 among pregnant women by age group (%)
                                 HIV-1                                            HIV-2
                   All sites*          4 original SS sites*         All sites          4 original SS sites*
            15-49y 15-24y 15-19y 15-49y 15-24y 15-19y 15-49y 15-24y 15-19y 15-49y 15-24y 15-19y
 1993/95     0.6       -        -       0.7      -       -      1.1     -        -      1.0     -       -
 2000/01     1.3      1.2      0.8       -       -       -      0.9    0.7      0.3      -      -       -
 2002        1.4      0.8      0.2      0.4     0.6    0.0      1.0    0.6      0.2     0.7    0.7     0.3
 2003        1.5      1.3      0.4      1.4     1.4    0.7      1.0    0.8      0.4     0.8    1.0     0.7
 2004        2.1      2.0      1.1      2.3     2.2    0.9      0.8    0.4      0.2     1.0    0.4     0.3
 2005        1.1      0.5      0.3      1.2     0.3    0.3      0.6    0.3      0.5     0.5    0.2     0.3
Source: Gambia Gov't/MRC antenatal survey (1993-1995); Sentinel surveillance (2000/01-2005)
*Sentinel surveillance sites have been increased from 4 in 2000/01 to 8 in 2005. The overall prevalence of
HIV in "4 original SS sites" is also calculated to minimize the margin of error introduced by adding high
and/or low prevalence sites.

Prevalence and trend of HIV-1 vary significantly by sentinel surveillance site (Table3). For
example, the prevalences have decreased significantly in Serre Kunda, Farafenni, and Basse
between 2004 and 2005, while only some or no change have been reported in Sibanor and
Kuntaur, respectively during the same period. Prevalence even went up to 2.6% in 2005 from
2.0% in 2004 in Brikama. The two new sites, Essau and Soma, showed very low prevalence rates.

Table 3. Prevalence of HIV-1 among pregnant women aged 15-49 years by sentinel site
               Serre
              Kunda       Farafenni Kuntaur          Basse     Brikama      Sibanor      Essau       Soma
 1993/95         0.7          0.3          -           1.0        0.1         0.6          -           -
 2000/01         1.0          0.4          -           1.4         -          3.0          -           -
 2002            0.2          0.0         0.6          0.3        2.4         3.4          -           -
 2003            2.4          0.7         1.2          0.8        0.8         2.8          -           -
 2004            2.2          1.8         1.0          2.8        2.0         2.8          -           -
 2005            1.0          0.4         0.9          1.3        2.6         2.2         0.0         0.2
Source: Gambia Gov't/MRC antenatal survey (1993-1995); Sentinel surveillance (2000/01-2005)



                                                   44

Table 4. HIV-2 Prevalence (%) among pregnant women aged 15-49y by sentinel site
                 Serre
               Kunda      Farafenni Kuntaur          Basse    Brikama       Sibanor       Essau       Soma
1993/95           1.1         0.8          -          0.9        0.9          1.7           -           -
2000/01           0.7         0.3          -          1.1         -           1.8           -           -
2002              0.4         1.4         0.6         0.0        1.0          2.0           -           -
2003              1.2         0.2         0.8         0.4        0.6          3.0           -           -
2004              1.4         0.8         0.0         0.8        0.4          1.4           -           -
2005              0.6         0.2         1.1         0.6        0.6          0.8          0.0         1.1
Source: Gambia Gov't/MRC antenatal survey (1993-1995); Sentinel surveillance (2000/01-2005)

Box 1. Limitations of prevalence and incidence as a measure

Limitations of prevalence
 HIV prevalence represents the total number of HIV infections, new and old. In contrast, HIV incidence
 reflects recent infections, usually expressed as the number of new HIV infections acquired in the last
 year. HIV prevalence is easier to measure and is thus far more commonly measured than HIV incidence.
 The following major limitations of HIV are identified:
 HIV prevalence is slow to respond to changes in HIV risk behavior and HIV incidence
 In concentrated epidemics, HIV prevalence in the general population reflects the tail-end of a long
 infection chain
 HIV prevalence provides no timely information as to whether a project is on or off track and does not
 enable management to manage by results
 HIV prevalence depends on the balance between incidence and mortality, which may be changed by
 increasing access to treatment
 HIV prevalence changes cannot be attributed to a single development partner's efforts ­ they reflect the
 totality of national and international HIV responses
 HIV prevalence measures may not be consistent or stable over time

Limitations of incidence
 In concentrated epidemics, HIV incidence in the general population also reflects the tail-end of an
 infection chain
 HIV incidence changes also cannot be attributed to a single development partner's efforts ­ they reflect
 the totality of combined responses
 HIV incidence measures may also not be consistent or stable over time
 HIV incidence is expensive and difficult to measure, so is not a practical part of a routine monitoring and
 evaluation system
 Using HIV data among young people, such as antenatal clients aged 15-19 provides a reasonable proxy
 for HIV incidence, but still has limitations and should be analyzed alongside other incidence data.

Source: Wilson (2006). Limitations of Prevalence as a PDO: A Guidance Note for MAP TTLs




                                                   45

Annex 11. List of Key Performance Indicators: from PAD and DCA

              Logical Framework (PAD)                      DCA/Amended DCA
   Hierarchy of                                                                                                              Results
     objectives       Key Performance Indicators         Performance Indicators

  Sector-related
    CAS Goal                 Sector Indicators
Prevent the           Increase in the percentage of 15-                               % of 15-24 years olds who have heard and/or seen message about HIV/AIDS in
negative impact of    24 years olds with access to                                    the last 12mo (in 2002; 2005)
the spread of the     HIV/AIDS IEC Services                                              Male (94.9; 93.0)
HIV epidemic on                                                                          Female (90.5; 89.0)
development and                                                                          Total (92.2; 91.0)
on the level of       Stabilize and reduce prevalence                                 See Annex 10 for prevalence of HIV among pregnant women aged 15-24
poverty in The        of HIV among 15-24 year olds
Gambia                Stabilize and reduce prevalence                                 See Annex 10 for prevalence of HIV among pregnant women aged 15-49
                      of HIV among pregnant women
       PDO             Outcome/Impact Indicators
To slow the spread    At least 90% of population aged   At least 90% of the population Proportion of the population (aged 15-49) who have heard of HIV/AIDS, know at
of HIV/AIDS           15-49 is aware of STIs,           (ages 15-49) aware of          least two transmission modes (including sexual transmission), and know at least
epidemic in The       HIV/AIDS transmission modes       HIV/AIDS transmission         two prevention methods of ABC (including C)*was 66.6% in 2002 and 65.2% in
Gambia, through       and means of prevention by the    modes and means of            2005. The awareness has significantly decreased in males, particularly among
provision of          end of the project                prevention by end of Project. those in their 20s, while awareness was higher in females in 2005.
HIV/AIDS and
STIs prevention,                                                                       * Knowledge of HIV prevention methods among survey participants was measured
treatment, and care                                                                    in two ways: unprompted and prompted. Additional analysis shows that BSS 2002
services with a                                                                        reported the proportion of participants who correctly identified the prevention
focus on youth                                                                         methods in the unprompted questions, while BSS 2005 reported that in the
                                                                                       prompted questions, which is almost always higher. For comparison purposes, the
                                                                                      proportion was recalculated for the prompted question for both BSSs 2002 and
                                                                                      2005.
                      Use of condoms at last sexual     Use of condoms at last sexual  Proportion of unmarried young people aged 15-24 who used condom at last sexual
                      contact among young people        contact among young people     contact was 72.5% in 2002 and 70.7% in 2005. Proportion of young people aged
                      (15-24) increased by 40% by the   (ages 15-24) increased by 40% 15-24 (regardless of marital status) who used condom at last sexual contact
                      end of the project                by the end of the Project.     decreased from 45.2% in 2002 to 36.3% in 2005.




                                                                               46

               Logical Framework (PAD)                      DCA/Amended DCA
   Hierarchy of                                                                                                                 Results
    objectives         Key Performance Indicators         Performance Indicators

                       Prevalence rates of STIs and      Prevalence rates of HIV and      HIV: Prevalence of HIV-1 among pregnant women aged 15-49 was 1.3% in
                       HIV contained to present levels.  STI contained to present         2000/01 and 1.1% in 2005
                                                         levels.
                                                                                          STI: The prevalence of reported STI decreased significantly among females
                                                                                          (13.7% in 2002 vs 3.3% in 2005), while that among males increased, but not
                                                                                          significantly during the same period (2.7% in 2002 vs 4.2% in 2005). While the
                                                                                          DoSH collects the information on the number of STI cases in clinics, no
                                                                                          prevalence data were collected during the life of the Project.
   Output from
Each Component               Output indicators
1. Institutional       The National HIV/AIDS Council     NAC and NAS fully                NAC convened only twice in the last two and half years (Dec 2005 and Oct 2006),
capacity in            (NAC) fully functioning and a     functioning and National        while bi-annual meetings were planned.
planning, delivery,    formal National HIV/AIDS          HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan      NAS prepared the National HIV Strategy and Plan of Action (2003) and acted as a
and monitoring of      Strategy and Plan of Action       of Action adopted.              national coordination authority. However, it also experienced several major
HIV/AIDS               adopted, and being implemented                                    problems as a facilitator of the Project.
response
interventions                                                                            Several major issues that delayed the implementation and reporting include:
through line                                                                                Long vacancy and high turnover of staff;
departments and                                                                             Ineffective management at NAS and inability to re-organize the NAS based on
NGOs, CBOs,                                                                                 the organizational effectiveness study;
private sector and                                                                          Weak monitoring and evaluation; and
the civil society                                                                           Insecure legal/funding status of NAS.
developed              Divisional HIV/AIDS               All Divisional AIDS              7 DACs/MACs were established in 2002 to appraise proposal and coordinate
                       Committees and municipal          Committees (DACs) start          implementation of sub-projects under the CCSI. All DAC/MAC coordinator
                       equivalents started               implementation of Project        positions were filled by November 2002 (& deployed by April 2003) to facilitate
                       implementation of Project         activities by the end of Project the implementation. By the end of 2003, the HARRP awarded more than 534 sub-
                       activities by Project Year 2.     year 2.                          project grants, totaling USD 2.3 million. (See Annex 4 for total number and
                                                                                          amount of the sub-projects by year)
                       40% of 15-24 years old engage                                     % of unmarried young people aged 15-24 who had one or more commercial and/or
                       in safe sex                                                       non-regular sexual partners in the last 12 mo (in 2002; 2005)
                                                                                            Commercial (5.8; 5.8)
                                                                                            Non-regular (20.4; 39.4)
                                                                                            Total (26.3; 42.9)




                                                                                  47

                Logical Framework (PAD)                       DCA/Amended DCA
    Hierarchy of                                                                                                                Results
      objectives        Key Performance Indicators          Performance Indicators

                        Use of condom at last sexual                                     No information is available.
                        contact among commercial sex
                        workers, truck/taxi drivers, STI
                        carriers, and uniformed
                        personnel increased by 50% by
                        the end of the project
                        40% of 15-24 years old group                                     No information is available.
                        and 50% of high risk groups (see
                        above) have participated in VCT
2. Mechanisms and       At least 5 key line departments    At least 5 key line            9 line departments prepared action plans and partially implemented the activities.
processes of multi-     are implementing agreed action     Departments are implementing In 2006, disbursement was made only to DoSE (as of Oct 2006). The NAS was
sectoral response       plans                              agreed action plans.           unable to provide the complete information on inputs (e.g. budget and actual
of the Government                                                                         disbursement by line department by year) and outputs (e.g. number of staff trained
developed,                                                                                and sensitized, number of condoms distributed). The partial information from 4
expanded, and                                                                             line departments did not match the information presented during the MTR (see
operational                                                                               Annex 4 for details).
3. Provision of (i)     Increased in number of condoms                                   4.32 million condoms were procured by the NAS (2.16 million pieces each in 2004
VCT, (ii) condoms,      available for distribution nation-                               and 2006). The planned assessment of condom availability and accessibility was
(iii) basic             wide                                                             not carried out.
outpatient care at      At least 80% of population         At least 50% of the population The proportion of people aged 15-49 who was reached by IEC/BCC program on
primary level, (iv)     reached through targeted           reached through targeted       HIV/AIDS was 96% in 2002 and 92% in 2005. Although more than 96% were
outpatient care for     IEC/BCC programs on STIs and       IEC/BCC programs on            already reached by IEC/BCC in 2002, neither indicator nor target was revised.
HIV positive            HIV/AIDS                           HIV/AIDS.
individuals at          Voluntary counseling and testing   Voluntary counseling and       As of Oct 2006, 19 facilities offered VCT and 12 of them were concentrated in
primary level, (v)      services are incorporated into     testing services incorporated  Banjul/KMC/WD. There was no list of `target health facilities' that should have
care for terminally     antenatal, TB, and STIs services   into antenatal, TB, and STI    incorporated VCT. Therefore, the proportion could not be calculated.
ill patients, and (vi)  by the end of the project          services increased by 50% by
care for bereaved                                          the end of the Project.
families. Training                                                                        The service expansion was done through HARRP and the Global Fund. (e.g.

for health workers                                                                        HARRP provided 5 reproductive health /VCT centers, HIV testing kits, and

in the handling                                                                           medical and laboratory supplies (mostly until the early 2005, after which the GF
                                                                                          continued to supply the consumables and testing kits).




                                                                                   48

            Logical Framework (PAD)                        DCA/Amended DCA
  Hierarchy of                                                                                                                  Results
   objectives       Key Performance Indicators            Performance Indicators

HIV/AIDS            The number of sentinel              Sentinel surveillance sites      The number of sentinel surveillance sites has increased from 4 in 2001 to 9 in 2006
hazardous           surveillance sites increased by 2   increased by 2 in Project Year   and yearly surveillance was carried out with technical support from the Medical
materials           in Project Year 1 and to a total of 1 and to a total of 8 by the end Research Center.
                    at least 8 by the end of the        of the Project     (Amended
                    project                             DCA) Sentinel surveillance
                                                        sites increased by 2 in Project
                                                        Year 1 and a total of 6 by the
                                                        end of the Project
                    Access to treatment for STIs,       Access to treatment for STIs,    61 facilities provide treatment for STI and OIs; 11 facilities for TB.
                    TB, and other opportunistic         TB, and other opportunistic
                    infections offered in 50% of        infections increased by 20%      The target number of facilities which would incorporate the treatment for STIs,
                    health facilities by the end of     by end of Project.               TB, and other OIs was not determined at the beginning of the project. Also, no
                    project                                                              baseline information was available for each service. Thus, the rate of change could
                                                                                         not be calculated.

                                                                                         The service expansion including procurement of medical equipment and supplies
                                                                                         was done jointly by the HARRP and the Global Fund, even though delivery of
                                                                                         service was mostly supported by the Global Fund. Also, the HARRP financed the
                                                                                         construction of 5 reproductive health centers currently providing services (see
                                                                                         Annex 4, component 3 for details).
                    80% of the health workers utilize                                    No information is available. The manual was developed in 2005.
                    training and facilities to handle
                    hazardous waste
                                                        (Amended DCA) At least five      Five reproductive health centers that also offer VCT were completed and handed
                                                        new voluntary counseling and     over to the DoSH. Last supervision mission done by the NAS in June 2006
                                                        testing centers are set up and   reported that 5 sites were functional. Unavailability of an adequate number of
                                                        functioning as part of five new trained staff and supplies (including electricity) as well as a satisfactory M&E
                                                        reproductive health centers      system remains of concern.
                                                        under the project, with
                                                        adequate number of trained
                                                        staff to deliver effective care,
                                                        adequate supply of test kits
                                                        and drugs and satisfactory
                                                        monitoring and evaluation
                                                        system




                                                                                 49

               Logical Framework (PAD)                       DCA/Amended DCA
   Hierarchy of                                                                                                               Results
     objectives        Key Performance Indicators         Performance Indicators

                                                         (Amended DCA) 700               418 PLWHAs were on ARV as of Oct 2006. Most ARV therapy is currently
                                                         PLWHAs are receiving anti-      funded through the Global Fund: HARRP initiated the treatment process through
                                                         retroviral treatment by the end the ARI in 2004. There were only 3 centers in 2005, all in the Greater Banjul
                                                         of the Project                  Area. Only 6 centers presently offer ART; 4 centers in the Greater Banjul and
                                                                                         Western Division Areas.
4. Community and       Community and Civil Society       Community and Civil Society     Disbursements reached 124% including estimated community contribution.
Civil Society          Initiatives disbursement reach at Initiatives disbursements reach Disbursements of the IDA fund was 116% of estimates at appraisal (see Annexes 1
Initiatives Program    least 75% of planned levels       at least 75% of planned levels. and 2 for details)
financing              Number of communities and                                        The total number of sub-projects was 3,881. No information is available on the
community based        establishments implementing                                      number of communities and establishment implementing strategies to cope with
sub-projects           strategies to cope with                                          HIV/AIDS impact
developed and          HIV/AIDS impact
operational at all
levels




                                                                                 50

