Report No. PID9602
Project Name                     Gambia, The-Gambia HIV/AIDS Rapid...
Response Project (HARRP)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           HIV/AIDS
Project ID                       GMPE60329
Borrower(s)                      GOV. OF THE GAMBIA
Implementing Agency
Address TBD
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 12, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 16, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Relation to Country Assistance StrategyThe last Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for The Gambia (Report No. 18361 GM) was prepared in August
1998 and discussed by the Board of Directors on September 10, 1998.
Although the HIV/AIDS epidemic was still in its very early stages in the
country at that time, the CAS did mention the need for HIV/AIDS
prevention. The CAS also mentioned the threat of the sexually transmitted
diseases or infections (STIs), which are an important co-factor in the
spread of HIV/AIDS in the early stages of an epidemic. Last but not least,
the CAS stressed the importance of addressing major public health concerns
through preventive rather than curative measures. The instrument that was
envisioned in the CAS to tackle the issue of HIV/AIDS prevention (and its
linkage to reproductive health outcomes) was a Population Policy LIL.
Initial preparatory work for the Population Policy LIL operation has
subsequently been subsumed into this larger HIV/AIDS Rapid Response
Project. The preemptive nature of this HIV/AIDS project and its objective
to both organize and increase the response against the HIV/AIDS epidemic
are well in line with the overall social and human capital development
strategies that are spelled out in the CAS. Moreover, the proposed
operation is fully consistent with the overarching objective of Bank Group
assistance which is to achieve a sustainable reduction in
poverty.Epidemiologic Situation and Government ResponseHIV was first
diagnosed in The Gambia in 1986. In 1988 the first sero-prevalence survey
was undertaken and found a consolidated HIV prevalence of 1.8% among
adults (people 15 years old and above), consisting of 1.7% HIV-2 infection
and 0.1% HIV-1 infection.   This survey was repeated in 1991 at which time
survey data showed an increase of HIV-1 infection from 0.1% to 0.5%,
whereas HIV-2 infection was stable at 1.7%. From 1993 to 1995 a study
undertaken among antenatal mothers showed similar prevalence rates.
Additionally, specific studies of a very high risk group, commercial sex
workers (CSW), reflected a similar trend. While HIV-2 remained relatively
stable among CSWs at 2.1%, HIV-1 infection increased in this group from
2.19 in 1989 to 8.1% in 1993.   Unfortunately there are no prevalence data
available from 1995 to 1999. However, indirect indicators show a steady
increase in the number of HIV cases as well as an increase in HIV
prevalence among blood donors (reaching a consolidated level of 3.59 for



HIV-1 and HIV-2 in one center in 1999). The predominant means of HIV
transmission in The Gambia is heterosexual. The extent of mother-to-child
transmission, contaminated blood products, needle sharing, and from men
having sex with men, is not known.The Government launched in 1992 a
program to fight the epidemic, prepared a five-year HIV/AIDS prevention,
treatment and care plan, created the National AIDS Control Program, and
also held resource mobilization meetings to fund the program, with modest
success. Nevertheless, a number of activities have been promoted,
principally by UN agencies and NGOs in conjunction with the Government, to
prevent and mitigate the spread of HIV/AIDS. These activities include
limited information, education and communication (IEC) activities, condom
promotion, dissemination and use of HIV test kits, and sentinel
surveillance activities. Today a number of high government officials are
seized with the problem and dangers stemming from the HIV/AIDS epidemic,
are more vocal about these dangers, and recognize the risks to Gambia's
future development if a major and well-coordinated effort is not launched
quickly to stem its spread. The Government as a whole is now conscious of
the need to curtail the spread of the virus before it reaches an explosive
dimension, as has occurred in a number of other SSA countries.Government
HIV/AIDS StrategyWhile HIV/AIDS is referenced in a number of Government
strategy documents, there is not yet a medium (5 year) or longer-term
strategic document which: (a) clearly articulates Government's priorities
in containing HIV/AIDS; (b) consolidates the various discussions of
HIV/AIDS in the strategy documents for the sectors; and (c) puts forward a
detailed Plan of Action based on a consolidated overall strategy against
the HIV/AIDS epidemic.A strategic document is being developed, and will be
reviewed and adopted by the new institutional structure to be put in place
under the new HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (HARRP). The Gambian
Government and civil society recognize that HIV/AIDS is a complex
multi-faceted and multi-sectoral problem that requires a long-term
sustained response from all sectors of government and society. The policy
and strategic framawork will involve a process of planning and program
development at bith the national dans Divisional levels. This process
will engage national and regional government institutions, the major
regional sector NGOs, religious organizations, associations, PLWHAs, and
others key stakeholders. The Government expects that is it develops this
comprehensive, multi-sectoral five year strategy and plan of action, and
then receives the support of the international community, the people and
institutions of The Gambia will have the capacity to contain the spread of
the epidemic and its enormous burden on society and the economy.
2. Objectives
This Project is a country program within the context of the $500.0 million
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP) approved by the
Board on September 12, 2000. In line with the purpose of the MAP and in
collaboration with other members of the International Partnership Against
AIDS in Africa (IPAA), the overarching purpose of this HIV/AIDS Rapid
Response Project (HARRP) is to assist the Government of The Gambia stem
the growth of human immuno-deficiency virus (HIV) infection by helping to:
(a) maintain the current low levels of the epidemic; (b) reduce its spread
and mitigate its effects; and (c) increase access to prevention services
as well as treatment, care, and support for those infected and affected by
HIV/AIDS. This will be achieved through the provision of HIV/AIDS
prevention, care, and treatment services at all levels (national,
regional, and local) as well as in a number of sectors.
- 2 -



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region places HIV/AIDS
at the center of the development agenda for work in the region. For the
individual country, but also for neighboring countries and communities,
the curtailment of the spread of HIV is pivotal if human development and
overall development goals are to be achieved. HIV/AIDS prevention is
cross-sectoral and the Bank has experience in financing selected sectors
in The Gambia, each of which has a key role to play in carrying forward an
HIV/AIDS prevention program (agriculture, education, health, the private
sector). Further, the Bank has embarked with the Government and the IMF
on a Poverty Reduction Strategy exercise, and this effort will take
HIV/AIDS concerns into account. With its IPAA partners, the Bank has
experience in the design of HIV/AIDS rapid response programs in other
countries, and in supporting successful programs in West Africa. Of
significance for The Gambia because it is encircled by Senegal, is the
Senegal program, where the HIV prevalence rate is and has been kept at
2.29. IDA is one of the UNAIDS partners in a position to make a multi-year
commitment to the long-term Gambian effort to avert a HIV disaster.
4. Description
The Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP) provides
the framework and the basic concept for the HARRP. The four MAP elements
for eligibility, namely satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to
HIV/AIDS (demonstrated by having a participatory strategic planning
process underway); a high level HIV/AIDS coordinating body; Government
agreement to use appropriate implementation arrangements; and Government
agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies, have been
integrated into the project design. HARRP will support the development of
a national medium term strategy and plan of action, concentrating on
prevention. It will assist the National AIDS Commission and Secretariat to
fulfill its mandate. Concurrently it will build on and increasingly
accelerate coverage of existing programs, as well as improve the
institutional capacity of those entities involved, both public and
private. Finally, the intention is to continuously track and evaluate
activities and to reassess them on an annual basis, in terms of
effectiveness, but also in terms of resource availability should other
partners decide to participate.Synergies with Existing HIV/AIDS
ActivitiesHARRP will build on activities already underway at various
stages of implementation, including those financed by the
IDA-Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project (PHPNP),
approved in March 1998. Of particular note are the recently approved STI
and HIV management manuals developed by the DOSH and a technical advisory
group. These manuals use the syndromic management approach and are
consistent with UNAIDS guidelines, providing the basic framework for a
national approach for prevention, treatment and care. PHPNP also supported
revision of the mid-wifery curriculum and improvements in primary and
secondary health facilities. Under a complementary health project financed
by the African Development Bank (AfDB), a national public laboratory will
provide essential testing support for reproductive health
activities.Another program which is to be expanded with the help of the
HARRP is the "Stepping Stones" effort. This community level, empowerment
and participatory learning and action approach uses infertility prevention
as the acceptable pathway to discuss STIs and HIV prevention issues with
local villages in an Islamic context. Several local organizations
including Action Aid, The Gambia Family Planning Association, the German
-3 -



Gambia Family Planning Program, the Worldwide Evangelisation for Christ,
the Medical Research Council and the DOSH have undertaken a collaborative
effort to pilot the approach. They have now developed the methodology and
manuals and tested it in several communities. This "Stepping Stones"
approach has been partly evaluated and found successful.Other relevant
acuvwes include neruung priority health indicators and me allocation of
resources a the health sector. HARRP is designed to direct resources made
available from Government, the donor community, and other partners, to a
mufti-sectoral HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care strategy and action
plan. The emphasis will be on interventions which can be implemented
rapidly, targeting high risk and other target groups, working as much or
more outside the public sector, with communities and NGOs.The Project The
proposed project will have four components: 1) capacity building and
policy development; 2) mufti-sectoral responses to prevention care and
support; 3) health-sector responses to STI/HIV management, including
prevention and care; and 4) HIV/AIDS Fund (H Fund) community
initiatives.Component 1: Capacity Building and Policy Development. This
component will aim at strengthening Gambia's capacity to cope with the
spread of HIV/AIDS by supporting the work of the multisectoral National
HIV/AIDS Commission (NAC), its Secretariat (NAS), and Divisional/Municipal
AIDS Committees (DACs), in development of an interim and subsequently
final national HIV/AIDS strategy and Action Plan, and in providing the
institutional capacity to carry out the Plan. Six sub-components address
the following areas: (a) National Strategy and Action Plan; (b) HARRP
Coordination and Administration; (c) Advocacy Training, and Technical
Support Activities; (d) Surveillance and Mapping, (e) Operational Research
and Pilot Testing, and (f) Monitoring and Evaluation.Component 2:
Multi-sectoral Responses for Prevention, Care and Treatment Support. This
component will be principally to improve the capacity of Government
Departments to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, emphasizing prevention,
through a)provision to their staffs, of HIV/AIDS education, training,
condoms, and other support, to encourage HIV/AIDS avoidance behavior, and
b) Departmental capacity to help their specific external partners such as
PTAs, farmers associations, village health committees to confront
effectively HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment. Interested line
Departments either have or will appoint HIV/AIDS focal persons to carry
out Departmental plans for these purposes, with support from HARRP.
Currently the Departments of Education, Agriculture, Defense, Interior,
Youth, Tourism, Community Development and Health have plans and will be
HARRP participants.Component 3: Health Sector Responses to STI/HIV
Management. The Department of State for Health and Social Welfare (DOSH)
will be able to carry out all of the activities described above by
participating line Departments. In addition, the DOSH and more broadly the
health community, have special responsibilities for STI/HIV prevention and
management. This sector therefore warrants a separate Component, making
provision for prevention, treatment and care from a health sector
perspective, whether public or private. It builds on work now contained
in the STI and HIV management manuals recently adopted by the DOSH, as
well as other reproductive health activities. DOSH will not be able to
undertake all of the health sector specific tasks at once, nor do it
without assistance from other non-public health care providers. It will
prioritize which aspects, where, when and how quickly it can implement and
scale up these management packages. A preliminary draft of the DOSH Plan
will be refined, but the basic elements are: a) voluntary counseling and
testing: b) care for the asymptomatic patient: outpatient care at primary
-4 -



level; c) care for the symptomatic patient; d) care for the terminally ill
patient: home care and regular home visits by nurses; e) care for the
bereaved family.Two other aspects need highlighting with respect to the
health sector:First, blood supply is important and blood supply system
enhancement is being partly addressed under the PHPNP. In this regard the
stated policy goal of The Gambia is that blood supplies be controlled and
assured as safe. Donor mobilization is being financed under the PHPNP
along with a readiness to cover preparation of a plan for a national blood
transfusion service, identify the necessary equipment to complement what
is being done under existing AfDB and IDA financing, what would be needed
in terms of blood bags and reagents, and training of laboratory
technicians. The objective would be to ensure that blood for transfusion
and blood products do not transmit HIV and other STIs.Second, there is
need for specialized training in HIV/AIDS hazardous materials handling and
provision of medical supplies to health workers so as to prevent HIV virus
transmission. Health workers represent a particularly vulnerable group
because of their routine contact with hazardous materials, they are the
front line in treatment, and need to be confident their personal safety is
taken into account so that they actively promote testing and treatment of
PLWHAs.Component 4. HIV/AIDS Fund-Community Initiatives. The HIV/AIDS
Fund (H Fund) will be a separate financing mechanism to provide resources
to support community, civil society, worker associations, and
"establishment or primary unit" initiatives (" establishments or primary
units" are businesses, military camps, prisons, refugee camps, religious
groups, trade associations, sports clubs and the like). It will therefore
support both "community-based" and "community-involved" activities. The H
Fund will be roughly half of the HARRP Credit, be established by and
report to the NAC, through the NAS. An initial allocation will be made to
the five Divisions (and two municipalities) on a population density basis,
so that there is proportionate sharing and an indicative planning amount
from which to begin work. Basically there will be three types of
proposals put forward by eligible applicants for approval: 1) large scale
activities (National or Division coverage) which will require substantial
experience, and institutional capacity, and for which entities will be
pre-qualified (Category A); 2) medium-small scale activities which will
require considerably lesser standards of capacity, with such organizations
ranging from NGOs, CBOs, PLWHAs associations, other groups and
establishments (Category B); and 3) communities on their own behalf.
Category B entities and communities will be able to obtain modest grant
assistance from the HARRP for local consultant support to help in
preparing proposals and organizational training, if need be.Using
participatory group discussion techniques, a CBO assessment was done in
July 1999 by ActionAid, the Department of Community Development and
Women's Bureau covering ActionAid nationwide areas of operation. Based on
criteria that included CBO self-assessment, extension worker assessment,
and those of the assessment organizers, CBOs were assessed as strong,
moderate or weak. An expansion of this assessment to cover non-ActionAid
areas is being undertaken by the Local Initiative Fund and shared with the
HARRP. A preliminary assessment of larger NGOs has also been done, based
on questionnaire and interview responses. Thus there is a basis on which
to go forward in determining institutional capacity with major groups of
likely H Fund applicants.Various institutional options were considered,
including contracting the Gambia Social Development Fund financed by the
African Development Bank, channeling resources to the decentralization
rural development structures established by the European Development Fund
- 5 -



and which use multi-disciplinary facilitation teams (MDFT), or utilizing
the Local Initiative Fund (LIF) approved in 1998. After due consideration
the Gambian Government determined its preference would be to use multiple
channels for developing and presenting proposals, and rely on
Divisional/municipal AIDS Committees and the NAS to process applications
for approval and monitor H Fund activities. The existing mechanisms did
not appear to be the " right fit" for HARRP, either because they had other
priorities, were credit providers only, were more infrastructure-oriented,
had long appraisal or developmental timelines, or already had too much to
do with their current plans and programs. The H Fund system will be demand
driven and thus allow for the full gamut of potential users and other
institutions to access resources..A menu of eligible activities, an
"HIV/AIDS Activity Positive List", will be further defined in an IDA
approved, H Fund Operations Manual. Assuming a qualified applicant puts
forward a proposal consistent with the menu/positive list, it would be
presumed to be eligible for financing. Broadly speaking H Fund activities
would be aimed at the following areas: (a) Information education and
communication/behavioral change communications (IEC/BCC) campaigns; (b)
Support to high-risk groups; (c) Youth-related activities ; (d) Condom
supply and dissemination.(a) IEC/BCC campaigns. Activities would be
geared at the general community and/or small groups, and encompass public
awareness and information campaign/programs. This would include TV and
radio access, videos radio cassettes to reach villagers, songs, plays,
road signs to convey simple messages, and other indigenous channels for
message delivery. The draft 1999 IEC Communications Strategy prepared by
the Department of State for Health can provide a basis for the IEC/BCC
menu until a separate HARRP menu is finalized.(b) Support to high-risk
groups (and priority target groups). Possible activities for H Fund
financing for high risk groups would include BCC, promotion of condom use
and condom availability, provision for STI diagnosis, treatment of STIs
and TB, and care. High risk groups include commercial sex workers and
their clients, long distance transport workers, migrant workers, hustlers
in tourist areas known as "bumsters", refugees and displaced people,
prisoners, the military, and those already infected. For a particular
subset of this group, namely PLWHAs, sub-activities could include
financing support groups, NGOs, and community organizations to reach
families and individuals with coping mechanisms that provide a package of
home-based care supplies (ex. gloves, plastic sheets) and essential drugs
(ex. aspirin, calamine lotion) to symptomatic and terminally ill patients
and their dependents, as well as medical treatment, shelter, food
supplementation, and care to HIV parents, students, and orphans, as well
as income generating activities for PLWHAs.(c) Youth-related activities.
This sub-component would target the youth, defined as aged 15-24, and
empower them to better tackle the threat of HIV/AIDS and STIs. Activities
would focus on: (i) youth-specific information, education and
communication as well as behavioral change communication (IEC/BCC)
programs; and (ii) Family Life Education programs for in-school and
out-of-school adolescents. H Fund financing would cover innovative
approaches such as peer-education programs, purchase of FLE materials for
peer education, youth clubs, youth-specific meeting places, and other
means. FLE programs in schools would encourage referral of adolescents to
H Fund supported services in the areas of voluntary counseling and testing
(VCT), STI treatment, and condom access. Parent and teacher associations
(PTAs) could be financed to play active roles in fostering a "culture of
care" in schools and the school as one of the main community based
- 6 -



organizations countering AIDS.(d) Condom supply, access and distribution.
IEC/BCC messages without means to carry out actions would not produce the
desired results. Therefore availability, accessibility, and a steady
supply of condoms would be essential, facilitated, and financed under the
H Fund, in conjunction with, or separate from, other H Fund-financed
activities.
5. Financing
Total                   ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT
IBRD
IDA
Total Project Cost       15.0
6. Implementation
The National AIDS Commission (NAC) will have broad-based, public and
private, multi-partisan membership. NAC will be the high level body
charged with developing the national HIV/AIDS strategy and action plan,
and following through with overseeing its implementation. It will be the
oversight body for the HARRP, meeting at least quarterly to receive
briefings and reports from the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS) and
also other Rapid Response partners. On an annual basis it will report to
the National Assembly on the status of HIV/AIDS, and steps taken to
prevent its spread. The NAS would be expected to report quarterly to the
NAC on progress in carrying out all components, results achieved, and
knowledge of the state of HIV/AIDS prevalence in The Gambia. Like the NAC,
the DACs (or municipal equivalents) will have roughly equal membership
from a) Government (line departments and local governments) on the one
hand, and b) NGOs, women's groups, the private sector and PLWHAs, on the
other (PLWHAs must be represented in each case). DAC committees will
convene monthly to focus on the proposals submitted under the H Fund as
well as discuss the status of HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care in
their area.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the HARRP will largely depend on the degree of
ownership by the various concerned entities at national, regional, and
local levels, their implementation capacity, their ability to organize for
specific sub-project activities, and the reliability of their access to
funds. The process at community level will be demand-driven;
sustainability at that level will be promoted by targeting priorities
identified by the beneficiary group. The incorporation by line
Departments of their own action plans, directed at internal and external
target groups will create ongoing support and awareness of the HIV virus
problem and appropriate behavior. The focus on capacity building,
training, performance monitoring and evaluation will further enhance
sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Stakeholder Consultation: Key stakeholders, particularly those with an
important role in implementation, should be involved from project
identification, through preparation and appraisal, and throughout
implementation. The project has been prepared with both implementors and
donor agencies in as consultative a manner as possible in the short time
available.Procurement:     Provision has been made for procurement
-7 -



support. A procurement agency would not be appropriate for this project
in view of the limited procurement under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures. Financial Management: Particularly given the new
structures, it is important to have both sound financial management and
clear accountability for both the Government and external financing.
Stress has been put on this during preparation and it is reflected in
agreement to employ a financial management firm.Coordinating Body vs.
Managing or Implementing Agency: Experience in other contexts has shown
the danger of a "so-called" coordinating body overstepping its role and
attempting to undertake implementation. This results in numerous
implementation problems, and turf conflict. Both the Government of The
Gambia and IDA have kept this issue at the forefront of discussions on
the establishment ofthe National AIDS Secretariat; it will have
coordinating and administration functions, but not implement
programs.Additional lessons learned from IDA financed projects in the
Gambia and Bank activities elsewhere, and which guided HARRP development
include: (i) where there is limited resources and HIV/AIDS prevalence is
low, a focused approach is more likely to be successful; (ii) high level
official--and continuing--commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS, is
essential; (iii) large scale condom promotion and marketing should result
in large increases in condom use; (iv) HIV/AIDS is not a "health sector"
problem alone, but requires a multi-sector effort ; (v) NGOs, CBOs and the
private sector/establishments should play significant roles in HIV
prevention.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This project will not generate any adverse
environmental effects.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Richard M. Seifman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-2897
Fax:   (202) 473-8216
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
-8-



