Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3455 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 2, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3455 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on September 12, 
2000, the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region estimated in the amount 
of SDR 378,400,000 over the next three years;
(C)
this Project is part of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa 
Region; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“90-day Advance Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(c) of this Agreement; 
(b)
“CBO” means a community-based organization operating under the Borrower’s 
laws and meeting the criteria provided in the CCSI Operations Manual;
(c)
“CCSI” means Community and Civil Society Initiatives;
(d)
“CCSI Beneficiary” means a community, CBO, civil society group or NGO 
which meet the criteria specified in the CCSI Operations Manual to which or for whose 
benefit a Grant is made or proposed to be made under Part D of the Project;
(e)
“CCSI Operations Manual” means the manual containing the procedures, 
guidelines, criteria and detailed terms and conditions for CCSI Subprojects;
(f)
“CCSI Subproject” means a Community and Civil Society Initiatives 
Subproject financed or proposed to be financed through a Grant extended under Part D 
of the Project;
(g)
“DAC” means a Divisional HIV/AIDS Committee (or municipal equivalent) 
established under the Borrower’s Divisional Coordinating Committee; 
(h)
“Dalasi” means  the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
“DCC” means Divisional Coordinating Committee (or municipal equivalent);
(j)
“DOSH” means the Department of State for Health and Social Welfare;
(k)
“GAMWORKS” means the Gambian Agency for the Management of Civil Works, 
Page  3
established under the laws of the Borrower, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement, dated May 11, 1994, between the Borrower and the 
Association for the financing of the Public Works and Capacity Building Project;
(l)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a CCSI 
Subproject under Part D of the Project;
(m)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations;
(n)
“IEC/BCC” means Information, Education and Communication /Behavior Change 
Communication;
(o)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited into the 
Project Account, as hereinafter defined, pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(p)
“Line Departments” means the Borrower’s Departments of State;
(q)
“NAC” means the Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Council responsible for the 
Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan of Action under the Office of the 
President;
(r)
“NAS” means the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat responsible for the 
administration, coordination and monitoring of the Project;
(s)
“NGO” means a non-government organization operating under the laws of the 
Borrower and meeting the criteria provided for in the CCSI Operations Manual;
(t)
“PIP” or “Project Implementation Plan” means the action plan adopted by 
the Borrower for implementing the Project, giving details of procurement and 
disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, financial 
and organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association;
(u)
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS;
(v)
“POM or Project Operations Manual” means the operational, financial 
management, disbursement, procurement and other administrative procedures, including 
annexes, as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of the 
implementation of the Project, as may be amended from time to time;
(w)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(x)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(y)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(z)
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infections;
(aa)
“UNFPA” means the United Nations Population Fund; 
(bb)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund;
(cc)
“VDC” means Village Development Committee; 
(dd)
“WHO” means the World Health Organization; and
(ee)
“WFP” means the World Food Program.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit: and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall 
so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of a Beneficiary to meet the reasonable cost of works, goods and services 
required for a CCSI Subproject to be financed under Part D of the Project, in respect 
of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower may also open and maintain in Dalasi for each DAC, a 90-day 
Advance Account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2011 and ending December 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2020 shall be one 
Page  5
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through NAC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and healthcare practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of the 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an account 
in the Central Bank of the Gambia on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Page  6
Association;
(b)
deposit an initial amount of $75,000 equivalent to the Borrower’s 
estimated counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project for the first six 
months of Project Implementation into the Project Account, and thereafter at quarterly 
intervals, deposit into the Project Account the estimated amount required for 
expenditures for the following quarter as agreed by the Borrower and the Association 
in each annual work plan; and
(c)
ensure that the amounts deposited in the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section will be used exclusively for the 
Borrower’s counterpart expenditures under the Project and not otherwise financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the 
Special Account and the 90-day Advance Accounts for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of 
each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
Page  7
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
eighteen months after the Effectiveness Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during 
the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, an 
additional event is specified, namely that the Borrower has taken any administrative 
action so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of NAC to perform its 
obligations under the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to  Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for 30 days after notice thereof 
Page  8
shall be given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and the Initial Deposit 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the NAS Director with terms of reference and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has: (i) established an accounting and financial management 
system satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) appointed the financial management 
agent referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan, and has 
furnished to the Association, a draft procurement plan for the first year of Project 
implementation  and the Project Operations Manual, all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance and Economic Affairs of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of State for Finance
    and Economic Affairs
The Quadrangle
Banjul
Republic of the Gambia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
2264
(220) 227 954
Republic of the Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  9
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ John P. Bojang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Civil Works
   250,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
 1,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
 3,200,000
100%
including audits and training
(4)
Grants
 5,900,000
100% of amounts
Page  10
disbursed
(5)
Operating costs
   550,000
90%
(6)
Unallocated
   700,000
TOTAL
11,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office 
supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances, travel and 
accommodations, office rental and Project contract staff recruited to work with the 
NAS, DACs or municipalities, but excluding salaries of members of the Borrower’s civil 
service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (4) unless the Grant concerned has been 
made in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in paragraphs 8 and 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in 
more detail in the CCSI Operations Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works and goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (ii) services under contracts costing 
less than (A) $100,000 for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 equivalent for individual 
consultants; (iii) all incremental operating costs and training; and (iv) all CCSI 
Grants under $100,000, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to organize a pre-emptive 
response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic through a multi-sectoral approach by: (i) 
maintaining the current low levels of the epidemic; (ii) reducing the spread and 
mitigating its effects; and (iii) increasing access to prevention services as well as 
care and support for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building and Policy Development
1.
Development of a National HIV/AIDS strategy and action plan, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training and the carrying out of workshops.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the NAC, the NAS, the DACs and municipal agencies 
to carry out the Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan, through the 
Page  11
provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
3.
(a)
Carrying out advocacy training and IEC/BCC multimedia campaigns and 
provision of training, technical advisory services, workshops; and 
(b)
support to small NGOs and communities in the preparation of CCSI 
Subproject proposals and in strengthening their organizational and management 
capacity, through the provision of training and technical advisory services.
4.
Carrying out beneficiary assessments and monitoring and evaluation activities, 
to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to analyze, assess and test approaches to 
improve actions related to the prevention, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS.
Part B:
Multi-Sectoral Responses for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care
1.
Provision to staff of the Borrower’s Departments of State and other agencies, of 
HIV/AIDS and STIs education, training, technical advisory services, condoms, equipment  
and other support, to encourage HIV/AIDS and STIs avoidance behavior, the treatment of 
opportunistic infections and the care of PLWHAs.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the staff of the Borrower’s Departments of State 
to provide their partners and clients with the means to provide effective HIV/AIDS 
prevention, and ways to access health care facilities and care, through the provision 
of technical advisory services and training and the acquisition of equipment.
Part C:
 Health Sector Responses to STI/HIV Management
Expansion of the reproductive health and opportunistic infection efforts of 
DOSH, including its diagnosis and treatment capacity, treatment of STIs and TB and 
capacity to provide care at health centers and hospitals as well as laboratory 
services.
Part D:
Community and Civil Society Initiatives
Provision of Grants for the financing of CCSI Subprojects for HIV/AIDS related 
activities by communities and other civil society groups. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Page  12
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
respectively, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent for goods 
and $350,000 equivalent for works, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National and International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $5,000 equivalent or 
less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods may be procured from IAPSO, UNFPA, WHO, WFP or UNICEF in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part D of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
Page  13
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  However, the 
exception to prior review will not apply to the first three contracts awarded under 
National Competitive Bidding and first five contracts awarded under Part D of the 
Project.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
Page  14
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for research and training as well as other similar assignments that 
meet the criteria set out in paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services of GAMWORKS and for activities which are estimated to cost less than 
$5,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.  However, the exception to prior review will not apply to the terms of 
reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single source hiring, to 
Page  15
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts 
raising the contract value above the prior review threshold.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall execute the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the PIP and POM.  Such PIP and POM shall 
not be amended or waived, in whole or in part, in a manner which, in the opinion of 
the Association, would materially and adversely affect the execution of the Project 
and the achievement of its objectives.
2.
National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC), National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS) and 
Divisional HIV/AIDS Committees (DACs)
The Borrower shall cause:
(a)
NAC to maintain the NAS in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
NAC to submit to the Association annual progress report on the overall 
performance of the Project;
(c)
each Divisional (or municipality equivalent) HIV/AIDS Committee (DAC) to 
maintain in a form and with functions, staffing, and resources satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(d)
the NAC and DACs membership shall be drawn with roughly equal membership 
from the public sector and civil society, including PLWHAs.
3.
National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS)
The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain, in a form and with functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association, a NAS under the NAC to be responsible 
for the coordination, administration, liaison, supervision, monitoring and long-term 
planning and policy support responsibilities, including responsibilities with respect 
to the CCSI, as detailed in the PIP;
(b)
NAS shall be headed by a Director with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association;
(c)
NAS shall contract with a financial management agent to assist in the 
management and the financial and accounting requirements of the Project;
(d)
NAS shall employ a Deputy Director/Project Coordinator, IEC/BCC 
Specialist, Procurement Specialist, CCSI Specialist, Monitoring and Planning 
Specialist and Project Facilitators (DAC), all with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association;
(e)
NAS shall: (i) report to the NAC on the discharge of its functions under 
the Project; and (ii) furnish to the NAC consolidated annual work programs, related 
annual budget proposals, various progress reports and other documents relating to NAS 
functions; and
(f)
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): NAS shall use technical advisory 
services, as well as, the DOSH Health Information System in the generation of 
Page  16
information, analysis, and in proposing modifications to the execution of the Project. 
M&E activities shall include: (i) development of a data collection system including 
social impact monitoring, to be used to refine or establish performance criteria and 
the impact of each component of the Project; (ii) compilation and consolidation of 
monitoring information, including data related to performance, impact, expenditure and 
disbursements; and (iii) preparation of consolidated semi-annual implementation 
reports for the Project.
4.
Work Plans for Multisectoral Responses (Part B of the Project) and Health Sector 
Responses (Part C of the Project)
In carrying out the multisectoral responses to HIV/AIDS under Parts B and C of 
the Project, the Borrower shall cause all Departments, Divisions, municipalities and 
other agencies participating in the Project to prepare and furnish to the NAC, through 
the NAS, annual work plans, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  
Said work plans shall: (a) be consolidated by the NAS; and (b) submitted for approval 
to the NAC and the Association.
5.
General
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February in each year: (i) a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) 
a Project performance report in the format described in the POM; and
(c)
review with the Association, on or about April in each year, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project.
6.
(a)
The Borrower shall, on or about April 30, 2003, carry out jointly with 
the Association a mid-term review.  Such review shall assess the following: (i) the 
overall progress in the implementation of the Project; (ii) the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) an evaluation of the CCSI Subprojects;  
(iii) progress on procurement and disbursement; and (iv) make adjustments in Parts A 
through D of the Project and reallocate funds to improve performance, if needed.
(b)
The Borrower shall, three months before such review, prepare and furnish 
to the Association reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, including the preparation of a program of action, to 
deal with deficiencies in Project implementation identified prior to such review.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and the 
Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
CCSI Subprojects
7.
Part D of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria, procedures, and terms and conditions specified in detail in the CCSI 
Operations Manual.  The provisions of such Manual shall not be amended or waived in a 
manner which, in the opinion of the Association, would materially and adversely affect 
the execution of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Page  17
8.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
CCSI Subprojects shall be for activities related to HIV/AIDS in accordance with the 
eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines set forth in the CCSI Operations 
Manual, which shall include, but not be limited to, activities in the following areas, 
IEC/BCC campaigns, support to high-risk groups, youth-related activities and condom 
supply and dissemination.
9.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for CCSI Subprojects
For purposes of financing CCSI Subprojects, the Borrower shall enter into 
appropriate arrangements with Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the CCSI Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the CCSI Subproject;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the CCSI Subproject;
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the CCSI Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents; 
(d)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the CCSI Subproject; and
(e)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the CCSI Subproject upon the failure 
by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  18
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents 
and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  19
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
7.
(a)
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each 90-day Advance Account funds to assist DACs to pay for goods and services under 
Part D of the Project. Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in amounts sufficient to 
assist each DAC in the manner contemplated in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to pay for 
such goods and services in due course, provided that, at no time, shall the Borrower 
cause the amount held in any 90-day Advance Account to exceed the equivalent of three 
months of approved Project expenditures.
(b)
Any withdrawal from any  90-day Advance Account must be justified to the 
Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
(c)
If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in any 90-day Advance Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the DAC benefiting from such 90-day Advance 
Account shall, promptly upon notice from the Association or the Borrower, refund to 
the Special Account such outstanding amount.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
The Borrower agrees that Project performance will be measured by the Indicators 
below, unless otherwise agreed by the Association:
A.
Output Indicators
1. 
At least 50% of the population reached through targeted IEC/BCC programs on 
HIV/AIDS.
2.  
At least 5 key line Departments are implementing agreed action plans.
3.  
Sentinel surveillance sites increased by 2 in Project Year 1 and to a total of 8 
by the end of the Project.
4. 
Community and Civil Society Initiatives disbursements reach at least 75% of 
planned levels.
5. 
Access to treatment for STIs, TB, and other opportunistic infections increased 
Page  20
by 20% by end of Project.
B.
Process Indicators
6. 
NAC and NAS fully functioning and National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan of Action 
adopted.
7. 
All DACs start implementation of Project activities by the end of Project year 
2.
8. 
Voluntary counseling and testing services incorporated into antenatal, TB, and 
STI services increased by 50% by the end of the Project.
C.
Impact Indicators
9.
At least 90% of the population (ages 15-49) aware of HIV/AIDS transmission modes 
and means of prevention by end of Project.
10.
Use of condoms at last sexual contact among young people (ages 15-24) increased 
by 40% by the end of the Project.
11.
Prevalence rates of HIV and STI contained to present levels.
