Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3545 UG 
 
UETCL Project Agreement 
 
(Fourth Power Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
UGANDA ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED 
 
Dated   February 23, 2005 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3545 UG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  February 23, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and UGANDA ELECTRICITY 
TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED (UETCL) (the Transmission Company). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated August 29, 2001, 
between The Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 48,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that the 
Transmission Company agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
Parts A.2, A.3, A.5(a) and A.7  of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement to the 
Development Credit Agreement dated on or about the date hereof, will be carried out by 
the Transmission Company; 
 
(C) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Transmission Company, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Transmission Company on 
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Transmission Company, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project  
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.01. (a) The Transmission Company declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.2, A.3, A.5(a) and A.7 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Transmission Company shall otherwise agree, the 
Transmission Company shall carry out Parts A.2, A.3, A.5(a) and A.7 of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Transmission Company shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Transmission Company shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of  Parts A.2, A.3, A.5(a) and 
A.7 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Transmission Company shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and the Transmission 
Company, a plan for the future operation of  Parts A.2, A.3,   
A.5 (a) and A.7 of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Transmission Company on said plan. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.04. The Transmission Company shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Transmission Company shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Transmission Company shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
The Transmission Company shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the 
Transmission Company of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the Transmission Company 
 
Section 3.01. The Transmission Company shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. The Transmission Company shall at all times operate and maintain 
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. The Transmission shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  The Transmission Company shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition 
Page  5
-
4
-
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Transmission  Company shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Transmission Company’s reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Transmission 
Company shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not 
covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, net revenues of 
the Transmission Company for any fiscal year shall at least be equal to the sum of its debt 
service requirements, working capital requirements, dividends and a proportion of 
investment, which may be financed out of the revenues of the Transmission Company. 
To this end, the Transmission Company shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues 
of the Transmission Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such 
incurrence or a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, 
which ever is the greater, shall at least be equal to the sum of its debt service 
requirements, working capital requirements, dividends and a proportion of investments, 
which may be financed out of the revenues of the Transmission Company, for any 
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Transmission Company, including the debt to be 
incurred. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Transmission 
Company maturing by its terms more than one year after the date 
on which is it originally incurred; 
(ii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into; 
(iii) 
the term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of the Transmission 
Company’s rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of 
debt even though they were not in effect during the 
twelve month period to which such revenues related and 
net non-operating income; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt; 
(iv) 
the term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above; 
(v) 
the term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayment (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt; 
(vi) 
the term “working capital requirements” means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year. To this end: (A) the term “current 
assets excluding cash” means all assets other than cash which 
could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash 
within twelve months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year; and (B) the 
term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends; and 
(vii) 
whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amending Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the 
Transmission Company thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date 17 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify the Transmission Company of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at suc
h
party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
Page  9
-
8
-
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited: 
 
Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 
 
Amber House 
 
Plot 29/33, Kampala Road 
 
PO Box 7625 
 
Kampala, Uganda 
 
Facsimile: 
 
256 41 341789 
 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Transmission 
Company, may be taken or executed by Managing Director
 
or
such other person or 
persons as Managing Director shall designate in writing, and the Transmission Company 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the 
Kampala, Republic of Uganda,
 as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
/s/ Judy O’Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
UGANDA ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION 
 COMPANY LIMITED 
 
By /s/ Eriasi Kiyemba 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
A. Execution 
Covenants
1.   
The Transmission Company shall:  
(a)  
not later than the Effectiveness Date:  
(i) 
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an 
account (the Project Account) in UShs, in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association and on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit of UShs equivalent 
to $50,000 into the Project Account to finance the Transmission 
Co
mpany’s contribution to the costs of the Project;  
(iii) 
thereafter, on a monthly basis during Project Implementation, 
timely replenish the Project Account with such adequate 
amounts as shall be required to carry out the Project;  
(iv) 
 
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project in addition to those financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(v) 
establish and thereafter maintain a procurement filing system 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
appoint and thereafter maintain until the end of the Project, a 
procurement specialist having experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(c) 
take all necessary effort to ensure that relevant training is offered to all 
its staff undertaking procurement under the Project. 
2. 
The Transmission Company shall in accordance with paragraphs 3 (f) and (g) of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, enter into: (a) a Project Management 
Services Agreement with the Generation Company; and (b) a Project Management 
Services Agreement with the Distribution Company and UMEME Limited, all in a form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
B. Environmental 
Covenants
3. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Transmission Company 
shall:  
(a)  
carry out or cause to be carried out the construction of the 
Namanve
 
power substation under Parts A.3 (a) and A.7 of the Project, in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plans as presented in the Environmental Impact Statement, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(b) 
carry out or cause to be carried out the rehabilitation of the 
Mbarara
 
North, 
Masaka
 West, 
Lira
 and 
Lugazi
 power substations under Parts A.3 (a) and A.7 of 
the Project, in accordance with the Environmental Management Plans as presented in the 
Environmental and Social Impact Study, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(c) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
Environmental Impact Statement, the Environmental and Social Impact Study, and the 
Environmental Management Plans, or any recommendations and provisions thereof, in a 
manner which, in the opinion of the Association may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of Parts A.3 (a) and A.7 of the Project;  
(d) 
ensure that: (i) all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
recommendations of the Environmental Impact Statement, and the Environmental and 
Social Impact Study are taken in a timely manner; and (ii) progress reports referred to in  
paragraph 4 under Part C of this Schedule shall include adequate information on 
monitoring of the measures defined in the Environmental Impact Statement, and the 
Environmental and Social Impact Study, respectively; and 
(e) 
(i) not later than December 31, 2005, carry out the RAP, in involuntary 
resettlement of the five brick makers, who have been determined as Displaced Persons as 
a
result of activities under Parts A.3 and A.7 of the Project on 
Namanve
 substation; and 
(ii) ensure appropriate compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of such Displaced 
Persons.  
C. Reporting 
and 
Monitoring
4. 
The Transmission Company shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement the carrying out of Parts A.2, A.3, A.5(a) and A.7 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
Page  13
-
12 - 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2005, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out Parts A.2, A.3, A.5(a) and A.7 of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts A.2, A.3, A.5(a) and 
A.7, of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A.2, A.3, 
A.5(a) and A.7 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Performance Indicators 
1. 
Transmission substation installed at Kampala Industrial and Business Park by 
end-of-Project. 
2. 
Service interruptions to existing consumers at Kampala Industrial and Business 
Park reduced after installation of substation. 
3. 
At least one new industrial plant connected to power in the Kampala Industrial 
and Business Park within a year of installation of substation. 
 
