Report No. PID9256
Project Name                     Uganda-Fourth Power (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Project ID                       UGPE2984
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency
Address UEB AND THE MINISTRY OF ENERGY
AND MINERAL DEVELOPMENT
Uganda Electricity Board (UEB)
Amber House, P.O. Box 7069, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. Paul Mare, Managing Director
Tel: 256 41 254071
Fax: 256 41 235119
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 12, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 30, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Uganda's economic performance has been impressive. The average real rate
of GDP growth has been about 6.9 percent per annum since 1990/91,
resulting in an annual 3.7 percent increase in real GDP per capita and
over a 20 percent decline in poverty (headcount index) from 1992 to 1997.
The annual average consumer price inflation has fallen from 24.6 percent
in 1990/91 to -0.2 percent in 1998/99. The reform program implemented
since President Museveni came to power in 1986 has aimed at establishing
fiscal discipline, opening up the economy and promoting reliance on market
forces. It has been successful in establishing fiscal discipline and
restructuring public expenditure. Progress has been made on trade
liberalization, privatization, civil service and financial sector reforms
and an impressive decentralization effort is ongoing. Further, the high
stock of debt that constrained economic development in Uganda has become a
smaller obstacle as a result of Uganda's participation in the Heavily
Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) initiative.The energy sector, however,
remains a constraint to increased and equitable growth. The modern
segment of Uganda's energy sector - electricity and petroleum - is small.
Recent surveys indicate that the quality and adequacy of power supply is
perceived by private sector managers as the most binding constraint to
private investment. Expansion of generating capacity has not followed the
rapid economic growth which Uganda has experienced during the recent
years. Although shortages have reduced after the commissioning of 80 MW
at the Kiira hydro power station in August 2000, supplies still have to be
curtailed during the daily peak periods. Furthermore, few people have
access to modern energy supplies and the country has one of the lowest per
capita consumption levels of modern energy in Sub-Saharan Africa. Despite
Uganda's vast hydropower resources concentrated on the White Nile River,
only 5 percent of the population has access to electricity. About 72t of
the total grid electricity is consumed by 129 of the domestic population



concentrated in the Kampala metropolitan area, and in the nearby towns of
Entebbe and Jinja.    With continued strong economic growth and concurrent
high electricity demand growth, projected at about 8 percent per year,
Uganda needs to better utilize its domestic energy resources, mainly
hydropower. As regards petroleum fuels, Uganda is dependent on supplies
from Kenya and Tanzania. Import and transport costs for delivery to
Kampala result in significantly higher prices in Uganda than in other
Sub-Saharan African countries. The Government liberalized the downstream
petroleum sector in 1994, but the legal and regulatory framework governing
the sector is still inadequate and the capacity to monitor the sector is
weak. Some six years after the liberalization, government still has no
law or mechanism to enforce anti-competitive behavior. The petroleum
sub-sector is an important contributor to government revenue and oil
imports have a substantial impact on Uganda's balance of payments.
Electricity Sector Reform and PrivatizationIssuesThe Uganda Electricity
Board (UEB) was established in 1948 as a quasi independent vertically
integrated monopoly to generate, transmit, distribute and supply
electricity within Uganda and other countries in the region. UEB is a
public enterprise 100% owned by the Government.    With enactment of the
Electricity Act of 1999 it no longer has a legal monopoly in the power
sector, but it still continues to undertake generation, transmission and
distribution activities in the country. These include the Nalubaale and
Kiira hydro power stations, with 180 MW and 80 MW installed capacity
respectively, and about 10 MW in diesel and mini-hydro capacity. The
system also includes some isolated diesels, an interconnected 132 kV and
66 kV transmission network, a 33 kV sub-transmission network, and a
distribution network at voltages 11 kV and below. Total generation was
about 1,350 GWh in 1999 and system peak was 242 MW in August 2000.
Consumer demand at peak times exceeds available generating capacity. UEB
has about 2,000 employees serving less than 170,000 customers, which are
heavily concentrated in the major population centers around Lake Victoria.
UEB has for a long time suffered from poor financial performance and
operating efficiency, low productivity, and inadequate funds for required
investments. These inefficiencies have left the utility in a weak
position. It is, by normal standards, close to insolvency. It has not
been able to generate an adequate cash flow from its present average
retail tariff of about US 5.6 cents/kWh. Poor collection has also been a
major problem. Over the past year, however, the performance of the
utility has improved, owing to the efforts of a new management team with
private sector experience - in place since April 1999.System losses, both
technical and non-technical, are high at 35%.   This, together with the
poor collection performance, resulted in UEB realizing only around 50% of
the value of the electricity generated in 1999 for sale in the Ugandan
market (excluding exports). Although UEB has undertaken campaigns to
reduce electricity theft and engaged private debt collectors,
non-technical (or commercial) losses due to illegal connections and
non-payment of utility bills continue to remain serious problems and
management efforts will have to be further reinforced.    Various factors
such as an inadequate billing system, inaccuracies and the existence of
un-metered supply have exacerbated the problem. The public sector, which
consumes roughly 10% of the electricity, is a major defaulter on its
payment obligations to UEB. In order to reduce the technical losses to
economic levels, heavy investments in the network, especially
distribution, will be needed over the coming years.The major cause for the
poor state of the power sector has been the lack of management and
-2 -



financial autonomy of UEB from the Government. This led to the lack of
commercial business orientation, accountability and modern utility
management practices. Government influence has prevailed in
tariff-setting, investment decisions, and personnel deployment, among
others.   Under such a politicized environment, introducing the management
and operational autonomy and performance incentives needed to improve
electric service to consumers proved difficult and it was only recently
that UEB's management has been given more autonomy. Government
StrategyImprove Power Supplies. Government's long-term strategy is to
develop Uganda's large hydro power resources through Independent Power
Producers (IPPs). Based on the current status, the first IPP plant
(Bujagali) would be operational around the year 2005/6. To meet the
growing demand in the meantime, UEB is constructing a new hydroelectric
generation plant, known as the Kiira power station (formerly the Owen
Falls Extension), adjacent to, but not connected to the existing Nalubaale
plant. The plant will be completed in three phases. The first phase,
financed under the on-going Power III project, comprised the construction
of a new dam, power house, diversion canal, civil works for generating
units 11 through 15, and the installation of 80 MW (Units 11 & 12) of
generating capacity. These two units were commissioned in August 2000,
increasing the total installed system capacity to 260 MW. The second
phase (Unit 13), financed by SIDA and NORAD, is scheduled for completion
at the end of 2002 and will increase the installed system capacity to 300
MW.Since it is possible to install two additional units at Kiira with a
short lead time, the Government has requested IDA financing for the final
third phase. Acceleration of installation of these units would provide
additional capacity by 2003, thus significantly improving the supply
situation before the first IPP comes on-line. Given the high system
losses, UEB is in parallel with its supply expansion program also
implementing a distribution strengthening and technical loss reduction
project, financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB).Increase Access.
The government has adopted, in consultation with the Bank, a
commercially-oriented approach -- with the government playing the role of
a market enabler -- towards rural electrification. The main elements of
this strategy are: (i) level playing field for private sector
participants; (ii) enabling regulatory framework; (iii) cost recovery and
cost-based tariffs; and (iv) transparent subsidy transfer and financing
mechanism. In line with this approach, the Government has initiated
discussions with the Bank on the Africa Rural and Renewable Energy
Initiative (AFRREI) for financial support for rural electrification. The
analyses carried out by AFRREI so far have concluded that Uganda offers
good prospects for and would benefit from private sector led, commercially
oriented rural electrification. However, the necessary institutional and
regulatory enabling environment needs to be established first. This will
be supported under the Energy for Rural Transformation project, scheduled
for appraisal in early 2001, at which time the Government's recently
completed Rural Electrification Strategy will begin
implementation.Restructure and Privatize. Realizing the negative impact
on economic growth of the weakness of the power sector, Government has
started implementation of a comprehensive reform and privatization
program. The program includes the unbundling of UEB's generation,
transmission, and distribution businesses into separate companies, the
establishment of a legal and regulatory framework necessary for private
sector participation and the creation of an independent power sector
regulator. Government has adopted the following structure for the power
-3 -



industry: One distribution company to be concessioned to private sector;
One generation company to be concessioned to private sector, including the
existing Nalubaale and Kiira hydro stations; A separate transmission
company acting as a single buyer that will hold existing power purchase
agreements (i.e. Bujagali and the future generation concession company).
The Government's medium term objective is, however, to allow for direct
contracting between distribution companies and future generators.Details
of the program and the specific implementation steps have been agreed
between the Government and the Bank based on the recommendations of a
Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization Study, completed in May 1999
and subsequent sector studies. So far, progress on implementation has
been satisfactory, with the Government initiating a number of actions as
summarized in the table below. Reform EventTarget date:Review London
Economics Study & agree with WBG on Reform AgendaApril 1999
(actual)Cabinet Approval of the Reform AgendaJune 1999
(actual)Parliamentary Approval of Legal / Regulatory Framework
(Electricity Law)November 1999 (actual)Hiring of Privatization
AdvisorsApril 2000 (actual)Appointment of RegulatorApril 2000
(actual)First draft lease/power sales agreement for the distribution
concessionSeptember 2000 (actual)Request for Proposal for Privatization of
DistributionFebruary 200lAwarding of Concession for the Privatization of
DistributionAugust 200lElectricity tariffs, which were last adjusted in
1993, have been declining in real terms, and stand now at about US cents
5.6/kWh.   An increase, though necessary to improve UEB's financial
position and to finance a portion of required investments, has been
difficult to justify to consumers at a time when UEB has been forced to
ration supplies. Following the improvement brought about by the
additional electricity from the Kiira station, tariff increase is at an
advanced stage of consideration, and is intended to be effected before
commencement of the project.   Petroleum Sector Development    IssuesUganda
Liberalized its downstream petroleum sector in January 1994. Oil
marketing companies have benefited from the liberalization, but this has
not enhanced competition or lowered consumer prices, nor has it improved
product quality. One reason for this situation is that the regulatory
framework governing the sector is inadequate and the capacity to monitor
the sector is weak. With German financial assistance, the Government has,
however, introduced an updated Downstream Petroleum Bill to govern the
sector. The Bill is before the Cabinet and is expected to go to
Parliament next Spring for enactment into Law.Because Uganda is
land-locked, the cost of delivering petroleum products to markets is
significantly higher than in other sub-Saharan African countries, mainly
because of the transit cost of products imported through Kenya and
Tanzania. This problem is aggravated by the lack of competition in bulk
transport in Kenya. The cost of oil imports was about $122 million in
1999. If the economy continues to grow and modernize, petroleum demand
can be expected to rise rapidly from the current low level of some 500
million liters per year. Given the importance of adequate energy supplies
for economic growth and the substantial impact of oil imports on Uganda's
balance of payment, providing adequate incentives for improved efficiency
in supply is critical.Government StrategyThe Government is committed to
improving the functioning of and enhancing competition in the sector
through a number of measures: (i) active monitoring and market information
dissemination to public; (ii) establishment of a legal and regulatory
framework; and (iii) attracting new entrants to the market. To this end,
Government has requested IDA assistance in implementing the law including
- 4 -



setting up a competent body to monitor petroleum operations. The
assistance under the proposed project would include technical assistance
in preparing and setting up the new regulatory framework and monitoring
arrangements, capacity building, and acquisition of monitoring equipment.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the project are: To improve power supply to meet demand
by supporting least-cost investments. The project would bridge the
electricity supply deficit by 2003, after which the private sector is
expected to take over financing of expansion. The project also aims to
build capacity for the reform processes in the power sector in preparation
of privatization; and To build capacity for the adequate monitoring of the
liberalized petroleum sub-sector and for improving regional energy trade.
The project complements three other planned and ongoing Bank operations,
which are supporting GOU's power sector reform and privatization program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
With Bank participation, sector reform would be accelerated by making its
continuation a condition for credit approval and by increasing
Government's capacity to implement reform and privatization. Several
donors (NORAD, DfID, GTZ, SIDA, JICA, AfDB, NDF) have assisted the
Government and UEB in financing needed investments and providing technical
assistance to sector reform. A broad based sector reform, such as the
privatization of the power industry can only be achieved with the
financial and coordination resources of the Bank. The Bank will also
facilitate the adoption of an optimal power system expansion sequence to
meet demand and mobilize donor resources for investments. Finally, Bank
participation would increase transparency in procurement and Uganda would
also be able to capitalize on lessons learned by the Bank from similar
projects in other countries.
4. Description
The project has four components:
A. Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation (Part A)
Al. Investment:
- Installation of two 40 MW generating units (units 14 and 15) at the
existing Kiira hydro power station
(unit 15 is subject to confirmation of its viability before disbursement
begins)
- Civil works and hydromechanical equipment for generating unit 13
- SCADA & Telecommunications System
- Rehabilitation of Nalubaale (formerly Owen Falls) substations
- Rehabilitation of Transmission substations
A2. Institutional Support
- Design and Supervision of Units 14 & 15
- Supervision of Unit 13
- Technical and economic studies
B. Environmental Monitoring (Part B)
- Environmental monitoring plan
-5-



- Environmental officer
C. Power Sector Development and Reform (Part C)
- Water Management Study
- Consumer Satisfaction Surveys and Energy Efficiency Awareness
- Sector Studies and Preparation of Future Projects
- Training of the staffs of the Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) and
MEMD
- Equipment for ERA and MEMD.
- Consultants' Services
D. Petroleum Sector Development and Reform (Part D)
- Petroleum product quality monitoring equipment comprising: (a) mobile
quality testing laboratory: and (b) testing equipment for a stationery
laboratory.
- Specialized advisory services to MEMD
- Training of petroleum monitoring cell staff.
- Equipment for petroleum monitoring cell at MEMD
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 97.29
Planned IDA credit: $ 66.3 million.
Co-financing: NDF and NORAD.
6. Implementation
Implementation Arrangements:Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation
Component- UEB initially and after privatization the generation and
transmission companiesEnvironmental Monitoring:- UEB initially and after
privatization the generation and transmission companiesPower Sector
Development and Reform:- Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
(MEMD)Petroleum Sector Development and Reform:- Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Development (MEMD)
7. Sustainability
The proposed investments will be sustainable if the power industry is
placed on sound financial footing. This calls for sector reform to ensure
that the power sector entities are run on sound business principles. To
this end, the project is part of the Bank's energy sector assistance
strategy to help the Government implement its reform program including
restructuring followed by divestiture to the private sector of the power
distribution and generation functions.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons learned in PCR for Power II:1. Bank's over optimism about UEB'
s implementation capacity led to an unrealistic timetable for project
implementation.The project will finance assistance for project
implementation, including procurement.2. Measures to improve institutional
and financial performance have to be initiated up-front and be
comprehensive. Weaknesses in power sector management, including lack of
autonomy and commercial orientation of UEB's operations, should have been
- 6 -



addressed.Government has already initiated a comprehensive reform and
privatization program. A detailed implementation plan for the
privatization of UEB has been agreed upon.3. The Bank should have been
more decisive in enforcing compliance with financial covenants, especially
the covenant requiring UEB to maintain an agreed relationship between
accounts receivable and its annual operating revenues.Project will focus
on ensuring that an adequate management is in place through the
privatization process. Global lessons: Three main lessons emerge from the
Bank's power sector operations: 4. Increasing private participation
relieves government budgets, improves service quality and expands access.
Government has initiated, with Bank and donor support, the reform and
privatization of the distribution and generation functions through the
Privatization and Utility Reform project. The proposed project will
facilitate privatization through improving supply capacity. 5.
Implementing reform requires political commitment. The Government has
demonstrated its commitment to reform by starting the implementation of a
satisfactory Power Sector Reform and Privatization program and the
enactment of a new Electricity Law. The project will provide technical
assistance to Government. 6. Expanding access to modern energy requires
specific focus on reform design and implementation.The government has
adopted a satisfactory commercially-oriented approach -- with the
government playing the role of a market enabler -- towards rural
electrification.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  An Environmental Analysis was carried out in
April/May 1999 in consultation with stakeholders. In June 2000, a Bank
pre-appraisal mission visited the project area and met with government
officials and environmental groups to discuss the content of the EA and an
Environmental Monitoring Plan. The findings of this pre-appraisal mission
have been incorporated into the final EA report dated August 31, 2000.The
pre-appraisal mission confirmed the findings of the EA that the project
would not have any major environmental impacts because it did not involve
construction of new structures - the two generating units would be
installed in an existing power house. The mission also established that
initial concerns about potential environmental impacts - including
mosquito breeding and uncontrolled future growth of the water hyacinth,
which may impair water discharges- related to the installation of units 14
and 15 will not materialize. First, the units will be installed in two
existing bays which were constructed as part of the Power III Project and
which are covered in the meantime by steel plates. Hence, there will be no
environmental impacts due to mosquito breeding in open construction pits.
Second, at the time of the pre-appraisal mission, the water hyacinth had
been almost eliminated in the project area through mechanical removal. UEB
has access to water hyacinth harvesting equipment at the power station.
Furthermore, using funds from the Power III Project, UEB has constructed a
concrete surfaced road at Rippon Falls (upstream of the Kiira power
station) for safe removal of the wet water hyacinth by truck, and
installed a water hyacinth boom in Rippon Falls, a safety boom at the
entrance of the power canal, and a floating boom before the intake
structures.The project will not involve resettlement or cultural heritage
issues.The only environmental mitigation measure required under the
project is a decommissioning plan (including restoration of the project
-7 -



area), which will have to be prepared and implemented by UEB at the end of
the project. Such a plan is a requirement under Uganda law. This will
involve the removal of temporary infrastructure such as sewage lines,
electricity lines, buildings, construction materials, used oils etc. The
scope of the decommissioning plan will depend on the amount of temporary
infrastructure to be transferred from the ongoing Power III which will be
come clearer towards the end of Power III. Transferring the use of
facilities from Power III to the proposed project will eliminate any
negative environmental impacts due to the demobilization and
remobilization of construction contractors to the site, and minimize the
risks associated with construction and rehabilitation services. As part of
this decommissioning plan, an environmental audit will be conducted to
assess the extent of potential environmental liabilities.Consultative
Approach:Government: UEB, the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development,
the Ministry of Finance and Planning and theMinistry of Water, Lands and
Environment were involved from the outset and have been closely consulted
throughout the project to ensure their effective participation. The
project has been prepared by UEB and MEMD.Private Sector: A survey of 243
randomly selected private enterprises was carried out in early 1998. The
sample is representative for 5 major economic sectors: commercial
agriculture, agro-processing, manufacturing, tourism, and construction.
The survey identified inadequate infrastructure, particularly the shortage
of power, as the leading constraint to the expansion of private sector
investment in the economy.    Results led to the acceleration of the
proposed project. The Uganda Chamber of Commerce and the Uganda
Manufacturers' Association have been consulted on the project.The new
Electricity Act was widely distributed to the various stakeholders,
including the private sector and the Government took their comments into
consideration in finalizing the Act. Other consultations have been
carried out, including potential private investors - the first investor
conference was held in Kampala in June 2000 and a second one in London in
October.Parliament and Civil Society: In April 1998, GOU organized a
seminar on privatization for members of Parliament as well as journalists
and civil society to sensitize them. The proceedings from the seminar were
taken into account in designing the privatization process. In late 1998,
following concerns about the integrity, transparency and efficiency of the
privatization program, the Parliament launched comprehensive
investigations, which led to substantial institutional reforms in the
program. Parliaments collaboration will also be essential to pass relevant
legislation.
Environmental Agencies: The Fisheries Resources
Research Institute (FIRRI), Enviro & Industrial Consult (U) Ltd., Makerere
University, the Assistant Commissioner, Survey and Mapping Division in
Entebbe, the Water Resources Department (WRD) and the National Environment
Management Agency (NEMA) have been consulted on the project. Their
proposals have been included in the design.Labor Unions: Government has
briefed the representatives of the labor unions and a Member of Parliament
for Workers on the sector reform and UEB's privatization and consulted on
their potential impact on workers. Two key recommendations emerged: (i)
the need to inform workers of individual PEs early in the divestiture
process and to keep them informed throughout; and (ii) fair and prompt
payment of retrenchment benefits and severance to those workers made
redundant as a result of the process. The Utility Reform and Privatization
project will address these concerns through its comprehensive
communications program and through the policy, guidelines and financing of
- 8 -



retrenchment benefits.Other Donors: Donors supporting the power sector
programs have been consulted during the preparation of the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Paivi Koljonen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-3229
Fax:   (202) 473-5123
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 29, 2000.
-9-



