Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3545  UG 
 
UEDCL Project Agreement 
 
(Fourth Power Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
UGANDA ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION COMPANY LIMITED 
 
Dated February 23, 2005 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3545  UG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  February 23, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and UGANDA 
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION COMPANY LIMITED (UEDCL) (the 
Distribution Company). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated August 29, 
2001, between The Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
48,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on conditions that the Distribution Company agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
(B) 
Part A.6 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement to the Development Credit Agreement dated 
on or about the date hereof, will be carried out by the Distribution Company; 
 
(C) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Distribution Company, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to the Distribution Company on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Distribution Company, in consideration of the 
Association’s entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the 
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement 
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project  
 
Section 2.01. (a) Distribution Company declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A.6 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Association and the Distribution Company shall 
otherwise agree, the Distribution Company shall carry out Part A.6 of the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
.
(b) 
the Distribution Company shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not later than 
12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) the Distribution Company shall carry out or cause to be 
carried out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of  Part A.6 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Distribution Company shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association and furnish to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and the Distribution Company, a 
Page  4
-
3
-
plan for the future operation of  Part A.6 of the Project; 
and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Distribution Company on said 
plan. 
 
Section 2.04. the Distribution Company shall duly perform all its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Distribution Company shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) the Distribution Company shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit. 
 
(b)  
the Distribution Company shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
the Distribution Company of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the Distribution Company 
 
Section 3.01. the Distribution Company shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. The Distribution Company shall at all times operate and 
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to 
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. The Distribution Company shall take out and maintain or 
cause to be operated and maintained with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  The Distribution Company shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate 
to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to Part A.6 of the Project. 
(b) 
The Distribution  Company shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Association), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other period 
agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Distribution Company’s reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Distribution Company 
shall prepare or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A.6 of the Project, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under Part A.6 of the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the previous 
FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the net 
revenues of the Distribution Company for any fiscal year shall be at least 1.0 times the 
estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Distribution Company. To this end, 
the Distribution Company shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the 
Distribution Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such 
incurrence or a later twelve- month period ending prior to the date of such incurrence, 
whichever is greater, shall be at least 1.0 times the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of the Distribution Company for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of 
the Distribution Company, including the debt to be incurred. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Distribution 
Company maturing by its terms more than one year after the date 
on which is it originally incurred. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of the Distribution 
Company’s rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of 
debt even though they were not in effect during the 
twelve month period to which such revenues related and 
net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayment (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vi) 
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Amending Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
of the Distribution Company thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date 17 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with 
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify the Distribution Company of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated 
by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to 
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex 
or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or   (202) 477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Limited: 
 
Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Limited 
 
Amber House 
 
Plot 29/33 Kampala Road 
 
PO Box 7390 
 
Kampala, Uganda 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(256) 41 255600  
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of 
the Distribution Company, may be taken or executed by Managing Director
 
or
such other person or persons as Managing Director shall designate in writing, and 
the Distribution Company shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, 
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Kampala, Republic of Uganda, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
/s/ Judy O’Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
UGANDA ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION 
COMPANY LIMITED 
 
By /s/ Irene Muloni 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
 
A. Execution 
Covenants
1. 
The Distribution Company shall not later than the Effectiveness Date:  
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an account 
(the Project Account) in UShs, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit of UShs equivalent to 
$25,000 into the Project Account
 to finance the Distribution Company’s contribution to 
the costs of the Project;  
(c) 
thereafter, on a monthly basis during Project Implementation, timely 
replenish the Project Account with such adequate amounts as shall be required to carry 
out the Project; and  
(d)  
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
2. 
The Distribution Company shall, in accordance with paragraph 3 (g) of Schedule 
1
to the Development Credit Agreement, enter into a Project Management Services 
Agreement with the Transmission Company and UMEME Limited, in a form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
B. Environmental 
Covenants
3. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Distribution Company shall:  
(a)  
carry out or cause Part A.6 of the Project to be carried out in accordance 
with the Environmental Management Plan defined in the Environmental Audit Report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(b) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
Environmental Audit Report or any recommendations and provisions thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of Part A.6 of the Project; and 
Page  12
-
11 - 
(c)  
ensure that: (i) all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
Environmental Management Plan are taken in a timely manner; and (ii) progress reports 
referred to in paragraph 4 under Part C of this Schedule shall include adequate 
information on monitoring of the measures defined in the Environmental Management 
Plan in the Environmental Audit Report.  
C. Reporting 
and 
Monitoring
4. 
The Distribution Company shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement the carrying out of Part A.6 of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the Association,  a semi-
annual report on the progress achieved in the carrying out Parts A.6 of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out Part A.6 of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
(c) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2005, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out Part A.6 of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A.6, of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of  Part A.6 of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
 
1. 
Distribution equipment procured and delivered to stores of the private sector 
operator (Umeme Limited) by the end-of-Project. 
2. 
At least 10,000 new consumers connected to power within a year of equipment 
delivery. 
3. 
Service interruptions reduced within a year of equipment delivery. 
 
