E386
VOL. 2
Environmental Impact
Assessment for Rehabilitation
of Specific Umeme/UEDCL
Electric Distribution System
Components
Peare4 By
Prepared By
Prepared By
Prepared by:
ENSR Corporation
for the Government of Uganda
e     *z~, "' ii'  December 2004
Document Number 10694-001-500



CONTENTS
1.0 INTRODUCTION .1-1
2.0 SYSTEM DESCRIPTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW METHODOLOGY ......................... 2-1
2.1     System      Overview ........................................................................                                     2-1
2.2     Environmental Review             Methodology ........................................................................             2-3
3.0 REGULATORY                FRAMEWORK              ........................................................................ 3-1
3.1     Ugandan       Environmental Regulations ........................................................................                  3-1
3.2    World Bank Group Safeguard                   Policies and       Environmental Guidelines ................................. 3-4
4.0   ENVIRONMENTAL                 REVIEW         FINDINGS ........................................................................             4-1
4.1     Observations ........................................................................ 4-1
4.1.1     Substations ........................................................................                                     4-1
4.1.2     Distribution      Lines ........................................................................ 4-2
5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS ........................................................ 5-1
5.1     Description of Rehabilitation Activities and                  Potential Associated           Environmental Issues ...... 5-1
5.1.1     Substation Transformer Rehabilitation ........................................................................ 5-1
5.1.2     Pole and Conductor Replacement ........................................................................                   5-1
5.1.3     Installation of Distribution Transformers ...................................................................... 5-2
5.1.4     Installation of New         Electricity Connections ................................................................. 5-2
5.2     Recommended            Corrective Actions ..................................              ....................................... 5-3
5.2.1     Transformer Replacement ............................                        ............................................ 5-3
5.2.2     Pole Replacement ........................................................................                                5-4
5.2.3     Consultation with NEMA               and General Recommendations ......................................... 5-5
5.3    Cost Estimate for Implementation                  of Rehabilitation-Related            Mitigation ...........        ..................... 5-5
6.0 ENVIRONMENTAL                   MANAGEMENT               PLAN ........................................................................       6-1
6.1    Summary of Impacts ........................................................................                                        6-1
6.2    Mitigation Measures ........................................................................                                       6-2
6.2.1     Transformer Replacement ...............................                       .......................................... 6-2
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\all.doc                                     i                                                           December, 2004
l~~~~ 



CONTENTS (Cont'd)
6.2.2 Pole Replacement .6-3
6.2.3 Consultation with NEMA and General Recommendations .6-4
6.3 Monitoring and Recordkeeping       ..6-4
6.4 Institutional Support        ..6-5
7.0 BIBLIOGRAPHY..7-1
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 2-1  UEDCL System Map ..............                                       2-2
Q:\mw97\Projects\10694001\500\a11.doc     ii                                December, 2004



1.0 INTRODUCTION
The project description of the rehabilitation work to be funded by IDA is as follows:
1. The concession agreement for the Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Ltd., between the
Government of Uganda and the Umeme consortium comprising Globeleq Ltd. (a unit of CDC
of the UK) and Eskom Enterprises (a unit of Eskom of South Africa), was signed on May 17,
2004 . The Government of Uganda, in conjunction with Umeme and International Development
Association, are preparing a distribution rehabilitation component proposed to be financed
under the Fourth Power Project (Credit 3545-UG). This new component aims to: (a) improve
the reliability and the quality of power supply and reduce power system losses; and (b) provide
access to new consumers.
2. The proposed project would consist of US$8-11 million for the following distribution
investments which involve rehabilitation of existing assets (there are no new greenfield line
extensions, no high voltage transmission lines, and no resettlement): (a) 33/11 kV and
11 kV/400K transformer rehabilitation; (b) distribution transformers; (c) distribution system
electric meters and circuit breakers, (d) pole replacement and provision of new conductor; (e)
about 18,900 new electricity connections, and (f) switchgear.
Physical Description of the Proposed Umeme Distribution Component:
* Supply of six 1 OMVA and four 5MVA 33/11 kV transformers; US$2.0 million
* Supply of 1150 distribution transformers; US$1.56 million
* Supply of 18900 electricity meters and circuit breakers; US$1.23 million
. Supply of 7.700 poles and 600 km of conductor; US$4.48 million
. Supply of material for 18900 new electricity connections; US$1.03 million
* Supply or switchgear; US$0.7 million
The report that follows is an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and identifies the
pollution/contamination that could potentially exist in the vicinity of proposed rehabilitation activities and
identifies remedial actions and/or mitigative measures that may be required to conduct the
rehabilitation in compliance with Uganda environmental regulations and World Bank safeguard
policies. The EIA also provides recommendations for an environmental management plan that is to be
implemented by Umeme/UEDCL to ensure that rehabilitation activities comply with environmental
requirements going forward.
Q:\mw97\Projects\10694001\500\all.doc    11                               December, 2004



This EIA report, developed by ENSR on behalf of the Govemment of Uganda, presents the findings of
an environmental review performed by ENSR and provides both recommendations related to remedial
actions and/or mitigative measures and an initial draft of an Environmental Management Plan.
Chapter 2 provides an overview of the UEDCL system and describes the study approach that was
followed in performing the environmental review. This is followed in Chapter 3 by a summary of the
Ugandan and World Bank guidelines and regulations that are the basis for the evaluation of potential
environmental issues associated with the funded rehabilitation. Chapter 4 presents the environmental
assessment findings and identifies specific areas of environmental concern. Section 5 identifies
environmental issues associated with rehabilitation activities and provides a listing of recommended
corrective actions. Section 6 provides an initial draft of an Environmental Management Plan that will
be further developed by Umeme/UEDCL and implemented in conjunction with funded rehabilitation
activities. Section 7 provides a bibliography, listing the previous reports, environmental laws and
regulations, and other documentation reviewed in association with the EIA.
Q:\mw97\Projects\10694001\500\all.doc    1-2                              December, 2004



2.0 SYSTEM DESCRIPTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW METHODOLOGY
2.1   System Overview
The electricity generation, transmission and distribution system in Uganda dates back to the 1930's.
The East African Power and Lighting Company, based in Nairobi, Kenya, operated the generation,
transmission and distribution system from 1936 until 1948, when the Government of Uganda
established the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB). In the 1990s the Government initiated the process of
privatizing these assets and eventually split them into three separate entities: the Uganda Electricity
Generation Company Ltd. (UEGCL) with responsibility for the generation of needed power; the
Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Ltd. (UETCL) with responsibility for wholesale import and
export of power; and the Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Ltd. (UEDCL) whose responsibility is
for retail delivery of power.
The UEDCL distribution system, the subject of this environmental review, is the 33 kV and 11 kV
distribution component of the country of Uganda's electrical system and services approximately
235,000 industrial, commercial and residential, and municipal clients throughout Uganda. Figure 2-1 is
a map of Uganda that shows the major nodes of the UEDCL electrical distribution system. Facilities
potentially affected by planned rehabilitation activities include UEDCL's 33 kV/1 1 kV distribution
substations and the "downstream" components of the electrical system (poles, service lines, and
distribution transformers).
The UEDCL system includes fifty-three 33 kV/11 kV distribution substations.  ENSR visited a
representative subset of these substations. The primary criteria used for selection of stations for site
visits were the age of equipment and regional location of the substations. The age of equipment was
prioritized, based first on the age of power transformers and then on the age of other equipment (to
account for differences in historic facility upgrades). The geographical locations assigned to the
various facilities (Central, West, East and North) were based on regional designations originally
developed by NEMA. In addition to age and geographical location, the size of the substation, as
indicated by the number of power transformers, was also a factor in the substation selection process.
Other major facilities in the UEDCL system potentially affected by planned rehabilitation include
numerous distribution transformers (approximately 600 MVA total capacity).
UEB and UEDCL have expanded and upgraded the distribution system several times. Recent major
improvements to the system (discussed further below) include reconstruction of mostly urban
substations in the 1990's, as funded by German, Swiss and Japanese aid organizations.
Q:\mw97\ProjecsW10694001\500\all.doc     2-1                               December, 2004



PRESENT AND FUTURE UEDCL & UETCL NETWORK
SUDAN
w. k2oA4                       ,,             I,iW
AAAU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
UGANDA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, I Cr IRt-
D.R.     CONGO                        Aft                     Lake Kwania
zr           ,t t'w                                .  mOrjA
.              .;4    Er     @w     '~~~~~~~~~~~~->   :+r -               V&X l  * 
E1                 Mb 'rs L I    s
t        's^~~~Ka  Dbbr. 1    rK,
'~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                           ¶f  tMI    La I 
riF4R1A  h90M.  tqe B..ai                         -                          - --;a - EF
-.z     x   T   tf<tT- '..,.                                                              KENYA
I OPRA ~   C,EuI.i,
[ .      t ~~~~~Fl  P-f't :;vbj'Tl'.4v         7-f- 
(*,                                                 ifffr sj 1gz 
ruaV ' #| _~ ' *  - . L -  -                                 LKEK
BWd7                                 Not tBr                    ITCzA    - 
I(&.i rii,             ____   IC,/      -'                .  ,    ''     '_  
~~~~~  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~viCTO'eiA
,               'm  '
t,f,,,  mm     ,^       ill                  ~      
0Am0
*      R'WANDA                Key:          TANZANIA
KISUGU S/S
JINJA INDUSTRIAL S/S  B'J.IIBOMBo S/S                 KABALE S/S   (,1AAS 0UHS/ LEGEND:
NJERU SI           KU S/S                                          KAMiPALA SOUTH S/S --       2k ml
MAGA-MAGA SIS      SERERE S          ,'1UI S/5        M tAS J      KAJANSI S/S                 2 kV tined
MUKIJNO S/S     I'u4ASINDI                               13kVm eSs
IGANGA S/S         SOROTI S S        BUSUNJU S/S      KINYALA 5/S  KISUBI1/5            -         kV prSoSpd
KAMULI S/S         LIRA SPINNINGMILL S/S  MITYANA S/S  GULU S/S    PNt-oposm1lO KVte                       .
TORORO ROCK S/S    KITGUM S/S        KIRIRI S/S       PORTBELI S/S  KIRIRI S/S SIS             66 kV Ime
BUGEMA S/S         KAYUNGA S15     -UNDE S/S          NIING3A S     KAWANDA SiS                33 iV Ime
MUBENDE sis  NTINDA 5,-S KIREKA S/S                33k  rooe
BUBULO S/S         WABIGALO S/S      MASA!A EENTRAL S/S  KAWALA S/S  .UUNGEi            PtydroPower Plant 
IKI-IKISfS        ;l' NAIRlUMA S/S   r       NI;IPN-Pk S/S  allUEENSWAY S/S *             HyPowpmropIed
IS8i¢i A Bujagaui  9 Murchison  I Ktamudin  rt Ay,ago  r'49 -'  I,,   Iv d;  -       Nrsel Pow lntoe
A      Uad       U hSr    (Iud         y9                       ASESE S/S             DImese, prmpasmd
K'aka,a  2 Nyam;ibuyp 3 Hacseseru         4 KIss S NerV B';dgm f  *;'  7 Mubuku              100 km
0 5i5?'uk  9 Ngete  'h  Sovti'  11 Molzi  12 Paidba  13 Kikhgah  14 RUIZI  lS  Sipg Fails



2.2    Environmental Review Methodology
The environment review of the UEDCL facilities, in support of IDA funding, is intended to identify the
pollution/contamination that could potentially exist in the vicinity of proposed rehabilitation activities and
identify remedial actions and/or mitigative measures that may be required to conduct the rehabilitation
in compliance with Uganda environmental regulations and World Bank safeguard policies. The
approach used for this review is consistent with accepted environmental review practices as applied to
large systems/companies, where it is impractical to review every facility. The methodology considers
both the historic and on-going activities (oil storage, waste disposal, maintenance, etc.) at the various
properties and the applicable environmental laws and regulations and evaluates the potential impacts
that rehabilitation activities may pose in the future to sensitive resource areas (surface and
groundwater resources, soils, air quality, etc.).
Due to the size of the UEDCL system, it was not practical to inspect each of the potentially affected
facilities/locations during the allotted two-week time period. Therefore, a representative sample of the
various types of assets was visited. The selection of assets for inspection was based on an evaluation
of the potential environmental risks posed by the operations at those assets. In addition, due to safety
concerns regarding continued military activity in the northern region of Uganda, sites in the northern
district were excluded from the inspection process. Specific facilities inspected by ENSR were
selected in consultation with the companies' management personnel based on the nature of
operations, facility age, suspected or known environmental impacts, and location.
*   Substations: A total of fifty-three 33 kV/11 kV substations exist throughout the system,
including two dismantled substations. ENSR visited 28 of these substations, selected on
the basis of their age (the oldest were of particular interest), size, reported releases of
dielectric fluid (if any), and/or unique characteristics of the substation.
*   Distribution Lines: During the course of visits to the substations, ENSR inspected a
representative subset of distribution lines, focusing on right-of-way management (i.e., tree
trimming).
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\aIl.doc     2-3                                 December, 2004



3.0 REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
The framework law that set the stage for the development of environmental regulations in Uganda (the
National Environment Act) was enacted in 1995. It expressed the overall goal of providing a safe and
healthful environment for all citizens in Uganda.  A national body, the National Environment
Management Authority (NEMA), was created to oversee the development and enforcement of
anticipated standards and guidelines. The law embodied the concept of environmental impact
assessment as a necessary activity prior to commencing activities that could cause harm to the
environment and identified electrical infrastructure as one of these activities. It also established the
environmental audit as the means of reviewing activities approved as the result of environmental
impact assessment, to ensure that the project was operating within the parameters agreed upon.
Licenses were to be issued for activities that caused pollution, with fines levied for those operating in
violation of a license. Restoration plans could be required to reverse environmental damage, with both
the development of the plans and the costs of their implementation being the responsibility of those
found to have caused the environmental damage.
3.1   Ugandan Environmental Regulations
In its compilation in April 2004 of laws relating to the environment, NEMA identified 24 laws that it
considered major and of primary importance for lead agencies and others involved in environmental
enforcement. The NEMA document was current through December 31, 2003 and addressed
everything from industrial regulation, such as the Mining Act of 2003, to resource protection such as
the Water (Waste Discharge) Regulations of 1998. Only a limited number of these are applicable to
the proposed project. The key aspects of the laws and regulations that are fundamental to an
assessment of the UEDCL assets and a determination of contamination are summarized below.
The National Environment Act
This act, which was passed in 1995, establishes the basic framework for current environmental
regulation in Uganda. It has 16 parts that deal separately with institutional arrangements, planning,
regulation, standards, environmental management, pollution control, environmental restoration orders,
recordkeeping, and fines and penalties. Among the important definitions contained in Part I of the act
are the following:
*   A hazardous substance is any chemical or waste which is injurious to human health or the
environment.
*   A mixture containing oil means a mixture with a specific content defined by the Ministry or if
such content is not specified, a mixture with an oil content of at least one hundred parts per
million.
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\aIl.doc  3-1                               December, 2004



*   Oil includes crude oil, diesel oil, fuel oil and lubricating oil.
*   An owner is defined to include the registered proprietor as well as the lessee.
*   A pollutant is any liquid, solid or gas which directly or indirectly alters the quality of the
receiving environment so as to adversely affect its beneficial use or is hazardous or
potentially hazardous to human health.
Pollution, therefore, means any direct or indirect alternation of the physical, thermal, chemical or
biological properties of the environment resulting from discharging, emitting or depositing wastes so as
to adversely affect beneficial use. Pollution licenses are required for activities that would result in
exceedance of established standards and guidelines.
The institution set up to carry out the provisions of the act starts at the federal level with a national
authority, NEMA, supported by various boards, committees and staff. It also specifies district
committees and district environmental officers as well as local environment committees. There is a
concerted effort to provide linkages to the many ministries and non-governmental groups whose
activities have the potential to affect the environment. With a current total of 56 districts in Uganda the
result is an extensive array of those involved in environmental review and enforcement.
Part V of the act establishes the need for environmental impact assessment of activities with the
potential for significant impact to the environment. Under the third schedule of this part, activities
related to electrical infrastructure, specifically electrical substations, are projects to be considered for
environmental impact assessment.  The results of an environmental impact assessment are
documented in an environmental impact statement. Environmental inspectors, per Section 22, are
charged with performing environmental audits to determine conformance with predictions made in an
environmental impact statement.
Part VI stipulates that standards will be set for air quality, water quality, the discharge of effluents to
water, odor, noise, vibration, and soil quality. As of the date of this report, water quality, effluent, and
noise standards have been established. Air quality standards were published in 2000, but remain only
in draft form. No regulations have yet been promulgated that relate to disposal of substances in soil.
Section 56 establishes that the person who discharges a hazardous substance, chemical, oil or a
mixture containing oil into any waters or other segment of the environment that is in violation of a
license or permit, has committed an offense and must pay the cost of removal as well as the costs to
any third party that include reparation, restoration, restitution or compensation. Part IX establishes the
environmental restoration order as the mechanism for specifying the terms and conditions of the
resulting obligations.
Part XII establishes that fines shall be levied for those who refuse environmental inspection, refuse to
prepare a required environmental impact assessment, fail to keep required records, or violate
environmental standards and guidelines. Fines can also be levied for failure to properly manage
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\al1.doc     3-2                                December, 2004



chemicals and hazardous waste, improper disposal of chemicals and hazardous waste, and
withholding information about the management of chemicals and hazardous wastes.
The Land Act
Part 1ll, Section 43 of the act establishes that the owner or occupant of land must manage and use the
land in accordance with all laws including the Forests Act, the National Environment Act, the Water Act
and the Uganda Wildlife Act. The subsequent section establishes the need to protect sensitive areas
that are defined to include natural lakes, rivers, ground water, natural ponds and streams, wetlands,
forest reserves and national parks. Licenses or permits are required in order to obstruct, dam, divert or
pollute any of the above water resources.
The Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations, 1998
Most of the substations in the UEDCL system were constructed before this regulation took effect.
Future activities, including new stations as well as major repairs, extensions and routine maintenance
of existing infrastructure, would be subject to the regulation. Equipment replacement and rehabilitation
within the confines of existing substations, as envisioned in this project, would be exempt from this
regulation.
The National Environment (Waste Management) Regulations, 1999
These regulations are directed at the storage and disposal of all wastes, including domestic waste, and
to the licensing of waste disposal facilities including landfills, sanitary fills and incinerators. At the
source, hazardous wastes are to be separated from non hazardous wastes. Licenses are required for
the transport and storage of waste. Industrial waste cannot be discharged or disposed of without
proper treatment. Waste treatment plants or disposal sites must be at least 1000 meters from
residential areas, commercial areas and water sources.
Wastes are defined as hazardous based on corrosiveness, carcinogenity, flammability, persistence,
toxicity or radioactivity. Hazardous wastes are listed in the 'fifth schedule" of a statutory instrument
supplement (S.l. No. 30, published in 1999). This fifth schedule calls out PCB-containing waste as
being a hazardous waste. Those licensed to transport or store waste must conform to requiremrents
regarding labeling of waste, provision of appropriate storage facilities, and training of employees
handling waste. Licenses issued for the transportation or storage of waste are valid for one year.
The National Environment (Wetlands, River Banks and Lake Shores Management) Regulations,
2000
This regulation defines water to include rivers, streams, reservoirs, wells, dams, canals, channels,
lakes, swamps, open drains or underground water. A wetland is an area that is permanently or
Q:\mw97\Projects\10694001\500\all.doc     3-3                               December, 2004



seasonally flooded and includes swamps, mambos, peatland, mountain bogs, riverbanks, as well as
areas of impeded drainage. The principle of sustainable use originally set forth in the National
Environment Act is reinforced, as is the need for environmental impact assessment prior to initiating
development. Wetlands can either be fully protected, partially protected or subject to conservation by
the local community. Those undertaking activities adjacent to wetlands are obligated to prevent the
degradation or destruction of the wetland and maintain the ecological and other functions of the
wetland. Those failing to do so are considered to have committed an offense. Part IlIl of the Act
addresses river banks and lake shores. Depending on the classification of the river, a protection zone
is defined at either 100 meters or 30 meters of the high water mark. No activity can be conducted
within the protection zone without prior approval. Lake shores similarly have protection zones of 200
meters or 100 meters of the low water mark, depending on their classification. Wetlands, river banks
and lake shores that have been degraded are subject to the issuance of a restoration order.
The Water (Waste Discharge) Regulations, 1998
These regulations define waste to include sewage and any other matter that if solid, liquid or gaseous
when added to water could cause pollution. Discharge to land or water is done subject to a permit.
Accidental discharges must be reported within 24 hours and carry the obligation to mitigate the
damage resulting from the accidental discharge. Environmental inspectors are empowered to sample
and analyze at any time activities specified in a discharge permit.
3.2   World Bank Group Safeguard Policies and Environmental Guidelines
The World Bank Group has developed an extensive set of policies, sectoral guidelines, and project
review procedures and guidance notes to guide loan applicants through the environmental review that
is required as part of bank participation in a project. The World Bank's environmental and social
safeguard policies, often referred to simply as the safeguard policies, are fundamental to the
prevention and mitigation of harm to both people and their environment. The World Bank safeguard
policy that may be applicable to the proposed project is the following:
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01): This policy seeks to ensure that Bank supported
projects are environmentally sound and that the full range of environmental risks and impacts
are considered during project review. Project assessments consider all aspects of the natural
and human environment and seek to prevent impacts whenever possible.
World Bank sectoral guidelines are more focused and relate to the evaluation of existing conditions
and the determination of the need for remediation. The sectoral guidelines that are applicable to the
UEDCL system are summarized below.
Q:\mw9\Projects\10694001\500\aIl.doc     3-4                              December, 2004



Electric Power Transmission and Distribution
This environmental, health and safety guideline was developed by the International Finance
Corporation. It is applicable to electric power transmission and distribution systems and includes
transmitting stations, switches and related equipment. It includes specifications for the development of
rights of way, ambient noise, and solid and liquid wastes. It specifically prohibits the installation of
new PCB containing transformers and directs that any existing equipment that contains PCBs will be
phased out. New process equipment and central cooling systems should be free of CFCs and existing
equipment that contains CEO should be phased out. Storage and liquid impoundment areas for fuels,
solvents and wastes should be designed with secondary containment to prevent spills and
contamination of soil, groundwater and surface water.
Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs)
Also developed by the International Finance Corporation, these guidelines identify the major
environmental issues associated with the use, maintenance and disposal of PCB transformers and
PCB contaminated equipment. The guideline notes that the World Bank allows for PCB equipment to
remain in service but that PCB-free transformers must be installed as old transformers are replaced.
Labeling is required on all equipment where PCB concentrations exceed 50 ppm. This labeling applies
to in-service equipment as well as equipment that has been taken out of service. Monitoring is
required on a regular basis for all transformers and storage sites. Where leaks are identified,
equipment must be immediately removed from service. Where retrofilling is preferred to replacement,
dielectric fluid must be removed and filtered prior to being returned to the same unit. Any equipment
containing more than 500 grams of PCB mixture can only be transported under specified conditions.
Wastes containing more than 50 ppm PCB must be secured and monitored prior to disposal. Areas
used for storage must have roofs and walls sufficient to prevent water from reaching the stored
materials. Storage areas must have a concrete floor with continuous curbing and must have no drains,
joint lines, sewer lines or other openings that would allow liquids to flow from the curbed area. The
preferred means of disposal is via high temperature incineration where there is a minimum
temperature of 1200 0C and a residence time of more than 2 seconds, achieving 99.99 percent
destruction. Chemical dechlorination is an option or for properly packaged PCB articles disposal in a
hazardous waste landfill. Because of the danger associated with exposure to PCBs, all transformer
sites must be secured against unauthorized access.
Project Specific Environmental Audit
The environmental audit is used to determine the nature and extent of all environmental areas of
concern at an existing facility. The audit identifies and justifies appropriate measures to mitigate the
areas of concern, estimates the cost of the measures and recommends a schedule for implementing
them. As regards the proposed distribution investment component, the objective of the environmental
audit is to identify present pollution and its potential clean-up costs, inadequate environmental
QA\mw97\Prcjects\1 0694001 \500\all.doc  3-5                           December, 2004



management, and occupational health and safety issues in the facilities to be rehabilitated and to
determine the need for remedial actions necessary to bring these facilities into compliance with World
Bank safeguard policies and to recommend actions to improve and strengthen Umeme's
environmental, health and safety management, if required. The audit is carried out by an independent
party. The audit results are documented in a report which summarizes the project, the applicable
environmental regulations, the approach used in the audit, and the areas of concern. As appropriate,
mitigation measures are identified and estimates provided for the cost of implementing the mitigation
measures.
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\al1.doc     3-6                                December, 2004



4.0 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW FINDINGS
The environmental review of the UEDCL facilities was completed during a two-week visit to Uganda,
from August 2 to August 13, 2004. Based on the sampling previously described, ENSR's review
included visits to facilities potentially affected by the proposed IDA-funded rehabilitation (twenty-eight
33 kV/1 1 kV substations) and a general visual inspection of distribution lines and distribution
transformers. Each facility was inspected with regard to potential for environmental contamination;
specifically that which could be affected by planned rehabilitation activities.
4.1    Observations
4.1.1   Substations
ENSR visited twenty-eight of UEDCL's fifty-three 33 kV/1 1 kV substations, including both older
substations and substations reconstructed after 1990 using funding provided by the German,
Japanese and Swiss governments. The 33 kV/1 1 kV substations had many similarities, with typical
electrical equipment consisting of one or two power transformers and associated switchgear, battery
areas and circuit breakers. Substations reconstructed using funding by each foreign government tend
to be very similar across the system.
The German and Swiss type substations typically contain a small on-site building (plant house). The
plant houses contain a battery room, a switchgear room and room for the station transformer. Most of
the buildings are constructed of concrete block with metal roofing. Ventilation for the battery room is
provided by vents, placed high and low on separate exterior walls. Floors are epoxy-covered to resist
corrosion from any spilled acid. The Japanese substations feature switchgear and batteries in self-
contained weatherproof units that are directly accessed from the exterior. Batteries are also enclosed
in such units, which are typically of metal construction with rubber seals to prevent the intrusion of
water. The older substations tend to be smaller facilities that contain exterior switch gearing and
battery boxes mounted on wooden poles.
The ages of the 33 kV/1 1 kV substations range from 3 to 68 years. Each substation is manned only by
a security guard and has fencing and controlled access. These substations are inspected for proper
operation on an occasional basis (reportedly twice per year) by UEDCL employees. It is during these
inspections that any releases/leaks of dielectric fluid from the electrical equipment are identified. A
more detailed inspection is done annually. Records of these inspections are maintained at the main
office.
As discussed above, the substations share many similarities and, during the course of the review,
certain issues of concern appeared to be in common between different facilities. Thus, a general
overview of issues affecting the system is offered. As the proposed rehabilitation at substations is
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\all.doc    4-1                               December, 2004



associated with replacement of power transformers and switchgear, these units were the primary focus
of the review and are addressed below.
The 33 kV/ 11kV transformers at almost every site visited by ENSR were observed to contain
transformer oil leaks. In most cases, the leaks were relatively minor in nature, affecting the concrete
pad and perhaps a small area of adjacent soil. Overall, the Japanese manufactured units appeared to
be in the best condition with the least amount of leakage observed. The worst facilities were the oldest
ones, which had not been retrofitted or renovated. Three substations had what was considered
serious leakage of transformer oil to the soil. At one of these substations, this leak potentially could
impact the local water supply system. For the most part, the releases appear to have impacted
shallow soil and would not be complicated to remediate (i.e., removal of a few shovels full of soil).
4.1.2   Distribution Lines
During the course of visits to the substations, ENSR inspected a representative subset of distribution
lines, focusing on right-of-way management (i.e., tree trimming). Based on interviews with UEDCL
personnel and observations during the environmental review, most of UEDCL's distribution lines
extend along roadways and, therefore, require minimal right-of-way maintenance. Where lines
traverse undeveloped lands, the company's practice is to install towers that exceed the height of
surrounding vegetation, thereby significantly reducing or eliminating the need to clear vegetation by
mechanical or chemical means.
For the lines along the roadside or that are at or below tree-top level, according to UEDCL
management personnel, trees are not cut down unless absolutely necessary. Typically, the
vegetation/branches on trees that are directly in the path of the distribution lines are removed.
UEDCL also minimizes environmental disturbance by not maintaining access roads beneath
distribution lines. Very little in the way of tree trimming or maintenance appears to be conducted by
UEDCL, and no chemicals are used for this purpose. According to representatives of UEDCL, no
herbicides are used due to the relatively high cost of using such methods of clearance.
Vegetation control within UEDCL's primary substations is accomplished almost entirely manually (i.e.,
by hand). However, some herbicides use was observed at one substation (Ggaba), where all of the
vegetation within the station had been killed. This appeared to be the exception however, and was not
observed elsewhere within the system.
Most of the connections appeared to be acceptable; however, certain areas were observed to contain
illegal connections and substandard wiring as a result.
Q:\mw97\Projects\10694001\500\aIl.doc     4-2                               December, 2004



El"'
5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS
Section 1.0 (Introduction) of this report provided an overview of the planned distribution system
rehabilitation program which is to be funded by IDA. This section provides a more detailed description
of the types of construction activities envisioned. Based on these activities and environmental review
findings, this section identifies potential environmental concerns and recommends the corrective
actions to be taken to address these concerns.
5.1    Description of Rehabilitation Activities and Potential Associated Environmental Issues
5.1.1   Substation Transformer Rehabilitation
The 33/11 kV and 11 kV/400V transformer rehabilitation program will consist of removal of existing older
and/or leaky primary electrical transformers at distribution system substations, replacement with new
transformer units, and (at certain locations) installation of new switchgear. At certain locations,
transformer rehabilitation will likely involve removal of an existing transformer from an existing concrete
pad and placement of a new transformer in the same location on the same concrete pad. At other
locations (e.g. at substations located in ecologically sensitive areas), this may involve removal of both
a transformer and the pad on which it currently sits, installation of a concrete secondary containment
pit, and installation of a new transformer above the new containment pit.
Potential environmental issues associated with these activities include:
*   Removal of oil from the old transformer and disposal of the transformer and the oil (note that
it is possible that the oil in these older units may contain PCBs);
*   Where existing concrete pads are replaced with new concrete containment pits, excavation
for new pits will involve disturbance of soil which may be oil-contaminated and/or PCB
contaminated.
5.1.2   Pole and Conductor Replacement
The overall system rehabilitation program will include a structural improvement component in which
damaged and/or broken wooden distribution system poles will be replaced with new, structurally sound
poles and damaged conductor will be replaced with new conductor. It is likely that new poles will be
wood poles, although the potential use of concrete poles (if economically feasible) will be evaluated.
Pole replacement will likely be implemented in one of three ways:
*   Removal/disposal of the existing pole and insertion of the new pole in the existing hole,
QA:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\aIlldoc   5-1                               December, 2004



*   Removal/disposal of the existing pole, backfill of the old hole, and augering of a new hole for
the new pole, or
•   Leaving the existing pole in-place (with lines attached) and placing the new pole
immediately adjacent to the existing pole in a newly augered hole. This is sometimes done
when there are numerous lines on the existing pole and the new pole is needed only to lend
structural support to the existing pole.
Potential environmental issues associated with pole replacement are relatively insignificant and
include:
* Appropriate disposal of the old poles and
* Management of soil removed during pole augering activities, including inspection for
contamination and appropriate stockpiling to minimize the potential for sediment in
stormwater runoff.
It is expected that there will be no significant environmental issues associated with replacement of
conductor.
5.1.3  Installation of Distribution Transformers
New distribution transformers will be installed both as replacement for certain failing existing
distribution transformers and in association with the extension of electrical service to new customers
(e.g., in support of the 18,900 new electricity connections included in the rehabilitation program).
Distribution transformer installation will most often involve removal of an old pole-mounted distribution
transformer and installation of a new distribution transformer at the same location. New distribution
transformers may also be installed either on existing or newly installed distribution system poles.
The only potential environmental issues associated with installation of distribution transformer would
involve the removal of oil from the old distribution transformer and disposal of the transformer and the
oil. As with substation transformers, it is possible that the oil contained in older distribution
transformers could contain PCBs.
5.1.4  Installation of New Electricity Connections
The funded rehabilitation program will include the installation of approximately 18,900 new peri-urban
electricity connections. In most cases, this is expected to involve the installation of a new service wire
from an existing pole in the street to the point of connection at residential or commercial building and
the installation of a new meter/circuit breaker at the connection point. In certain cases, extension of
service may also involve installation of one or more new poles (depending on the distance from the
distribution system to the connection point) and possibly could include installation of a new distribution
QA\mw97\Projects\1 06401 \500\aII.doc   5~-2                             December, 2004



transformer. Potential environmental issues for installation of new service connections will be relatively
insignificant and similar to those discussed previously under pole replacement and installation of
distribution transformers.
5.2    Recommended Corrective Actions
The several activities associated with the proposed system rehabilitation are limited in their potential to
impact the environment. It is expected that only activities associated with transformer replacement
(both substation transformers and distribution transformers) and installation of new poles could,
potentially have environmental consequences. All other activities are simple equipment replacements
that are interior to buildings or the installation of new equipment that would result in no disturbance to
the environment.
As noted above, the primary concern related to transformer replacement at substations is related to the
handling and disposal of the old transformers (and associated oil). It is possible that these older units
may contain PCBs, which could trigger specific handling, storage, labeling and disposal requirements
for the unit and the oil. Older distribution transformers could possibly also contain PCBs. Soil
disturbance at certain substations, associated with installation of secondary containment pits, may also
be an issue, as the soil may contain oil and possibly PCBs. Environmental concerns related to pole
replacement are primarily associated with the disposal of old poles (likely containing creosote) and, to
a lesser degree, the management of soil removed from augered holes. The corrective actions and
recommendations to achieve good environmental management are listed below. Also listed are a
series of organizational activities that should occur to insure proper training on the part of involved
operations staff and proper coordination with NEMA.
5.2.1   Transformer Replacement
Listed below are corrective actions (i.e., mitigative measures) that are recommended to minimize
potential environmental impacts associated with the replacement of transformers and disposal of old
units and their oil:
1. New transformer units and new transformer oil will be 'PCB-free", in accordance with in-place
UEDCL (and future Umeme) technical specifications.
2. Prior to implementing the transformer replacement program, UEDCL/Umeme should consult
with NEMA relative to the proximity of substations to known areas of ecological sensitivity.
Special procedures prescribed by NEMA should be incorporated into the overall transformer
installation plan that will be followed during the replacement process.
3. Based on the discussions with NEMA, UEDCL/Umeme should prioritize the order of
substations for equipment replacement, working first at stations that are in ecologically
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\all.doc   5-3                               December, 2004
m  m  m            m            m            m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



sensitive areas.  Where called for (due to observed significant soil staining), soil and
groundwater testing should be conducted as directed by NEMA to ensure that prior activities
as well as replacement activities will not compromise area resources.
4. A checklist for how to conduct the transformer replacement activities should be developed.
This checklist will serve to inventory existing site conditions, noting in particular evidence and
extent of leaks. Samples of transformer oil should be taken and tested so as to classify how
the old transformer should be handled. If a transformer is found to have PCB-containing oils,
then separate and appropriate procedures should be followed. If the transformer does not
contain such oils, the replacement can proceed, again following a prescribed protocol
established to ensure that oil containing liquids are not spilled on or off site, solid waste is
collected and transported back to a central location, and any disturbance to areas outside the
substation is restored to the condition that it was prior to the replacement activity.
5. Where it is determined that spill containment pits should be installed beneath new transformer
units, this will be done following a prescribed protocol again established to ensure that there
are no off site environmental impacts. This protocol, for example, would direct that disturbed
soils be stockpiled for reuse on site. Any liquid wastes generated as part of on-site concrete
making should be collected in barrels that will be returned to a central facility for consolidation
and disposal with other similar materials.
6. Operations staff who will be involved in the transformer replacement activities will be properly
trained in the requirements associated with the handling and disposal of PCB containing
materials. Their maintenance vehicles will be equipped with proper personal protective
clothing/equipment and with appropriate spill containment/cleanup equipment.  It is
recommended that each work crew be provided with a notebook containing a full set of the
protocols associated with all work anticipated at the substations. This notebook should be
prepared prior to and made an integral part of what would be a one day refresher course for
the operations staff.
7. A central location should be established which will be used to store old transformers and
collected solid and liquid wastes. Wastes identified as hazardous will be separated, labeled
and handled appropriately. In concert with NEMA, these wastes will be disposed of in
accordance with applicable Ugandan regulations.
5.2.2    Pole Replacement
Listed below are corrective actions (i.e., mitigative measures) that are recommended to minimize
potential environmental impacts associated with pole replacement:
A:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\aIl.doc      5-4                                December, 2004



1. To minimize environmental impacts, to the extent practicable, new poles should be placed in
the same locations as existing poles. If new locations are used, excavated soils should be
inspected for contamination (e.g., presence of oils) and, as appropriate, collected and
transported to the central disposal facility.
2. Old poles, which it is assumed have been treated with creosote, should be collected and
returned to the designated collection facility and not left in the local area where they could be
used for fuel or other domestic purposes.
3. Consideration should be given to the use of cement or steel structures. If wooden poles are to
be used, every effort should be taken to ensure that they are purchased from a source that has
prepared them properly.
5.2.3   Consultation with NEMA and General Recommendations
As noted, several activities should be done in concert with NEMA. NEMA is the federal body charged
with protection of the environment. They have an established network of district officers charged with
seeing that Uganda's environmental laws are carried out and are responsible for the monitoring of
activities that have a potential to impact the environment. UEDCLUUmeme will need to work with
NEMA. This interaction should involve first discussions at the federal level, to define the overall
rehabilitation program. UEDCUUmeme should then interact with NEMA on the local level by working
with the district officers during the actual implementation effort.
It is recommended that UEDCL/Umeme be proactive in this regard and work with NEMA to use the
several reporting mechanisms that it has established to report on its program. It is expected that
UEDCUUmeme will have one person charged with overall responsibility for environmental maKters for
the company and that he/she will serve as the main point of contact with NEMA in Kampala. It is also
expected that at least two regional environmental officers will be appointed within UEDCUUmeme and
that these persons will serve as the main points of contact with NEMA within their region.
Based on the results of the environmental review, there is no recommendation at this time to prepare a
system-wide remediation action plan. Substations were identified as having a low potential for off site
environmental impact and were not identified as presenting an imminent threat to human health and
the environment. Should soil and groundwater testing programs a particular location identify offsite
impacts, site specific remediation plans would be developed and reviewed with NEMA.
5.3   Cost Estimate for Implementation of Rehabilitation-Related Mitigation
The key components of the corrective actions and/or mitigation called for in this section are the
following:
Q:Amw97\Projects\10694001\500\aiI.doc    5-5                              December, 2004



(i)   the appointment of an Environmental Manager and at least two Regional Environmental
Officers to be responsible for the environmental aspects of Umeme's operations;
(ii)  training for employees involved in the rehabilitation program;
(iii)  implementation of soil and groundwater testing (on a site-specific basis);
(iv)   coordination with NEMA with respect to scoping work in ecologically sensitive areas and
recordkeeping/monitoring requirements; and
(v)    development of environmental policies and procedures for rehabilitation activities (for
incorporation into the Environmental Management Plan).
The table below presents a cost estimate for these activities.
Estimated
Action                 Cost (U.S. $)   Timing      Responsible Entity
Salary for Environmental Manager and                 Two years        Umeme
District Managers                                   January 31,
(assume 1 full-time Environmental Manager  $130,000  2005 - January
and two half-time District Managers) over a          31, 2007
two-year period.
Environmental training for employees               May 1, 2005 -      Umeme
involved with rehabilitation            $10 000    June 1, 2005
(assume implementation of training
program for 15 to 20 employees)
Implementation of soil/groundwater testing         June 1, 2005 -     Umeme
on a site-specific basis                $15,000    August 1, 2005
(assume testing at 10 substation sites)
Coordination activities with NEMA                   February 1,       Umeme
regarding rehabilitation activities in  $10,000    2005 - May 1,
ecologically sensitive areas and                       2005
monitoring/recordkeeping requirements
Development of environmental policies and           February 1,       Umeme
procedures for rehabilitation activities (for  $50,000  2005 - May 1,
incorporation into the Environmental                   2005
Management Plan)                    I_I
Estimated Total Costs                  $215,000                 I                  I
Staffing and training to implement the proposed rehabilitation program in a manner that is consistent
with good environmental practices is estimated to cost approximately 215,000 (U.S. dollars). Prior to
initiating the rehabilitation program, necessary task-specific environmental policies and procedures will
be developed and incorporated into Umeme's Environmental Management Plan (EMP). These
policies and procedures will serve as the basis for a training program for the staff from each district
responsible for implementation of the rehabilitation program and for implementation of site-specific soil
and groundwater testing programs.
Umeme will be responsible for the implementation of the EMP for the IDA-financed distribution
rehabilitation activities and employee training and will work closely with NEMA to ensure that staff are
Q\mw97\Projects\10694001\500\ail.doc       5-6                                December, 2004



trained in methods acceptable to the agency. Umeme will also consult with NEMA regarding
rehabilitation activities in ecologically sensitive areas and with regard to appropriate monitoring and
record keeping requirements and will report semi-annually to UEDCL on progress made in the
implementation of the EMP.
A:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\aIl.doc         5-7                                   December, 2004
m  -                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



6.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Umeme is working with the Government of Uganda and the World Bank's International Development
Association (IDA) to finance the rehabilitation of the distribution systems under IDA's Power IV Project
(Credit 3545-TA). Proposed work includes rehabilitation of distribution system substations (repair or
replacement of 33 kV/1 1 kV transformers, 11 kV/ 400 V transformers, and switchgear), replacement of
poles and conductor, repair or replacement of distribution transformers, and completion of as many as
18,900 new electricity connections.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that follows provides an overview of the mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures that should be taken to ensure that the implemented
rehabilitation program would comply with Ugandan environmental regulations and follows what are
accepted standards of good environmental management (e.g., World Bank safeguards). This EMP
builds upon the potential impacts and corrective actions/recommended actions identified in Section 5
of this report and establishes the framework for the development of a more definitive management plan
going forward.
The EMP should be viewed as a living document that will be updated to reflect changes and/or
incorporate additional information as the scope and location of the rehabilitation activities are further
developed and as initial rehabilitation activities are undertaken. Details related to required monitoring
and reporting should be incorporated as they are developed, both intemally and based on interactions
with NEMA. Given that the distribution system is an existing system being taken over by a new
organization, only a broad new organizational framework is specified. The framework builds from the
regulatory structure within Uganda, but would be expected to be revised and updated as the new
organization acquires it own operational experience.
The following sections of the plan address the potential impacts of the rehabilitation program based on
planned activities and environmental review observations, mitigation measures needed to correct
current problems and reduce the potential for future environmental effects, monitoring and
recordkeeping required to confirm that mitigation is being accomplished and, lastly, the environmental
organization that will be needed in order to execute the plan. The starting premise for the plan is
acceptance of the dual responsibility to provide reliable electricity and operate in the sustainable
manner prescribed by Ugandan law.
6.1   Summary of Impacts
Potential impacts of the rehabilitation programs have been discussed previously in Section 5 and are
summarized in this EMP section. The several activities associated with the proposed system
rehabilitation are limited in their potential to impact the environment. It is expected that only activities
associated with transformer replacement could potentially have environmental consequences. All
Q:\mw97\Projects\10694001\500\aIl.doc    6-1                              December, 2004



other activities are simple equipment replacements that are interior to buildings or the installation of
new equipment that would result in no disturbance to the environment.
The primary concern related to transformer replacement at substations is related to the handling and
disposal of the old transformers (and associated oil). It is possible that these older units may contain
PCBs, which would trigger specific handling, storage, labeling and disposal requirements for the unit
and the oil. Older distribution transformers could possibly also contain PCBs. Soil disturbance at
certain substations, associated with installation of secondary containment pits, may also be an issue,
as the soil may contain oil and possibly PCBs. Environmental concerns related to pole replacement
are primarily associated with the disposal of old poles (likely containing creosote) and, to a lesser
degree, the management of soil removed from augered holes.
6.2    Mitigation Measures
Mitigation measures and corrective actions associated with the rehabilitation program have been
discussed previously in Section 5 and are repeated here to form the initial component of this EMP.
6.2.1   Transformer Replacement
Listed below are corrective actions (i.e., mitigative measures) that are recommended to minimize
potential environmental impacts associated with the replacement of transformers and disposal of old
units and their oil:
1. New transformer units and new transformer oil will be 'PCB-free", in accordance with in-place
UEDCL (and future Umeme) technical specifications.
2. Prior to implementing the transformer replacement program, UEDCUUmeme should consult
with NEMA relative to the proximity of substations to known areas of ecological sensitivity.
Special procedures prescribed by NEMA should be incorporated into the overall transformer
installation plan that will be followed during the replacement process.
3. Based on the discussions with NEMA, UEDCL/Umeme should prioritize the order of
substations for equipment replacement, working first at stations that are in ecologically
sensitive areas.  Where called for (due to observed significant soil staining), soil and
groundwater testing should be conducted as directed by NEMA to ensure that prior activities
as well as replacement activities will not compromise area resources.
4. A checklist for how to conduct the transformer replacement activities should be developed.
This checklist will serve to inventory existing site conditions, noting in particular evidence and
extent of leaks. Samples of transformer oil should be taken and tested so as to classify how
the old transformer should be handled. If a transformer is found to have PCB-containing oils,
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\a11.doc    6-2                               December, 2004



then separate and appropriate procedures should be followed. If the transformer does not
contain such oils, the replacement can proceed, again following a prescribed protocol
established to ensure that oil containing liquids are not spilled on or off site, solid waste is
collected and transported back to a central location, and any disturbance to areas outside the
substation is restored to the condition that it was prior to the replacement activity.
5. Where it is determined that spill containment pits should be installed beneath new transformer
units, this will be done following a prescribed protocol again established to ensure that there
are no off site environmental impacts. This protocol, for example, would direct that disturbed
soils are stockpiled for reuse on site. Any liquid wastes generated as part of on-site concrete
making should be collected in barrels that will be returned to a central facility for consolidation
and disposal with other similar materials.
6. Operations staff who will be involved in the transformer replacement activities will be properly
trained in the requirements associated with the handling and disposal of PCB containing
materials. Their maintenance vehicles will be equipped with proper personal protective
clothing/equipment and with appropriate spill containment/cleanup equipment.  It is
recommended that each work crew be provided with a notebook containing a full set of the
protocols associated with all work anticipated at the substations. This notebook should be
prepared prior to and made an integral part of what would be a one day refresher course for
the operations staff.
7. A central location should be established which will be used to store old transformers and
collected solid and liquid wastes. Wastes identified as hazardous will be separated, labeled
and handled appropriately. In concert with NEMA, these wastes will be disposed of in
accordance with applicable Ugandan regulations.
6.2.2   Pole Replacement
Listed below are corrective actions (i.e., mitigative measures) that are recommended to minimize
potential environmental impacts associated with pole replacement:
1. To minimize environmental impacts, to the extent practicable, new poles should be placed in
the same locations as existing poles. If new locations are used, excavated soils should be
inspected for contamination (e.g., presence of oils) and, as appropriate, collected and
transported to the central disposal facility.
2. Old poles, which it is assumed have been treated with creosote, should be collected and
returned to the designated collection facility and not left in the local area where they could be
used for fuel or other domestic purposes.
Qa\mwO7\Projects\1 0694001 \500 I.doc    6-3                               December. 2004
l~~~~~~~~~~~ l  l 



3. Consideration should be given to the use of cement or steel structures. If wooden poles are to
be used, every effort should be taken to ensure that they are purchased from a source that has
prepared them properly.
6.2.3   Consultation with NEMA and General Recommendations
As noted, several activities should be done in concert with NEMA. NEMA is the federal body charged
with protection of the environment. They have an established network of district officers charged with
seeing that Uganda's environmental laws are carried out and are responsible for the monitoring of
activities that have a potential to impact the environment. UEDCUUmeme will need to work with
NEMA. This interaction should involve first discussions at the federal level, to define the overall
rehabilitation program. UEDCUUmeme should then interact with NEMA on the local level by working
with the district officers during the actual implementation effort.
It is recommended that UEDCUUmeme be proactive in this regard and work with NEMA to use the
several reporting mechanisms that it has established to report on its program. It is expected that
UEDCUUmeme will have one person charged with overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company and that he/she will serve as the main point of contact with NEMA in Kampala. It is also
expected that at least two regional environmental officers will be appointed within UEDCUUmeme and
that these persons will serve as the main points of contact with NEMA within their region.
Based on the results of the environmental review, there is no recommendation at this time to prepare a
system-wide remediation action plan. Substations were identified as having a low potential for off site
environmental impact and were not identified as presenting an imminent threat to human health and
the environment. Should soil and groundwater testing programs a particular location identify offsite
impacts, site specific remediation plans would be developed and reviewed with NEMA.
6.3    Monitoring and Recordkeeping
The purpose of monitoring and recordkeeping is twofold: the first is to respond to regulatory
requirements to monitor permitted discharges and emissions and the second is to maintain the records
that can demonstrate that committed mitigation is being implemented.
Based on a review of existing Ugandan environmental laws and regulations, it appears that most of the
activities to be conducted as part of the rehabilitation program would not require specific environmental
permits. There is a possibility that certain activities, primarily associated with storage and disposal of
wastes (especially if PCBs are present), could be deemed subject to permit requirements; however, a
further review of the on-going storage/disposal practices and interpretation of the existing regulations
would be required to confirm if any permits are required.
QAmw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\a11.doc     6-4                               December, 2004



In general, environmental regulations have slowly come into effect in Uganda since the passage of the
National Environment Act in 1995.  While the "third schedule" of the Act includes "electrical
infrastructure" among the listed facilities requiring environmental impact assessment and associated
approval, most of the distribution system was in place before this requirement took effect. Going
forward, new facilities could be subject to the environmental impact assessment requirements of the
Act. Current and future operations may also be subject to additional environmental permitting and/or
monitoring requirements, due to finalization and revision of existing regulations are promulgation of
new regulations. It does not appear, however, that rehabilitation activities would be of the scope or
magnitude to warrant development of a formal environmental impact assessment.
Recordkeeping is essential to good environmental stewardship. Umeme will review the limited records
that UEDCL has maintained and consider, within the context of its staff and their resources, how best
to develop and implement the following recordkeeping components:
1. Inspection records that document facility conditions on a regular basis. This would include
evaluation of the condition of existing substation transformers and switchgear, distribution
transformers, and poles to facilitate decisions regarding rehabilitation priorities.
2. Equipment and chemical inventory records that track the types, quantities and characteristics
of all equipment and chemicals purchased for facility operation and/or stored at the various
facilities. This would provide confirmatory information regarding the presence of PCBs at the
various facilities and within the various transformer units.
3. Waste management records that track the amount and types of waste generated (especially
PCB containing oils (if any), mercury containing light bulbs and asbestos) and where and how
these wastes are disposed. Transformers removed as part of the rehabilitation program would
be included in these records.
4. Development of checklists to be used for the various rehabilitation programs with potential
environmental impacts (transformer replacement, pole replacement, etc.)
Each of these systems will be important to the long-term environmental stewardship of the Umeme
system.
6.4   Institutional Support
Several institutional challenges exist in terms of achieving good environmental stewardship. One of
the major challenges will be to overcome tradition and establish work practices that are not widely
recognized in industrial operations in Uganda. It will be important to address this, as without
environmental awareness on the part of employees and training in the proper handling and disposal of
chemicals and materials used in system operation, all efforts at remediation will have been in vain.
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\all.doc   6-5                              December, 2004
I~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                    M



Recognizing the need to create a new climate of environmental awareness, the following steps are
seen as critical in Umeme's development of a system-wide environmental support organization within
the larger distribution system:
1. A single person will be identified to have overall responsibility for environmental matters
throughout the distribution system.  This person will be an experienced environmental
professional familiar with material handling requirements and the basic aspects of good
environmental management. Umeme will expand on the preliminary organization specified
here, develop the monitoring and recordkeeping systems identified above and draft a set of
goals and objectives for the environmental performance of the distribution system. The latter
will be supported by company policies and procedures and will specify environmental
performance related to operational activities, rehabilitation and eventually new development.
2. The environmental manager's position is anticipated to be a full time position that initially may
be the only environmental position in the organization. As systems are developed, it would be
expected that at least two regional environmental officers to assist in the local/regional
implementation of environmental. The regional environmental officers would be responsible,
likely on a part time basis, for environmental matters at the facilities in their region. They would
perform the routine facility inspections that are anticipated and be responsible for training staff
at each facility in the proper handling of materials and equipment to ensure environmental
compliance.
3. Early in the operation of the new system, it is expected that training would be conducted for all
employees. This training would include a session on environmental regulations applicable to
the distribution system, safe handling of chemicals and equipment used in the system, training
in routine activities that could have environmental consequences and review of new waste
management systems, recordkeeping and monitoring. Depending on system requirements,
this training may be done at the district level and combined with associated training health and
safety procedures.
4. To complement the initial effort of this Environmental Management Plan, environmental
policies and procedures will be developed and included in this document so that it will serve as
reference document for employees.  The document should include Ugandan specified
reporting forms, sampling procedures, logs for all sampling activities and similar document.
Copies of potentially applicable regulations should be also provided for reference.
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\aIl.doc    6-6                               December, 2004



7.0 BIBLIOGRAPHY
ESG Intemational Inc. and WS Atkins. Budagali Hydropower Project Executive Summary. AES Nile
Power. Richmond, UK, March 2001.
ESG International Inc. and WS Atkins. Buiaaali Proiect Transmission System EIS. AES Nile Power.
Richmond, UK, March 2001.
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of the  United  Nations.  Case  Study:  Uganda.
http://www.fao.org/docrep/003/x9419e/x9419eO7.htm
Hagler, Bailly. Environmental Review of UEB's Operations. October 15, 2000.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Pollution Prevention and Abatement
Handbook 1998. Washington, D.C., 1999.
Karokora, Hon. Justice Alfred. Recent Developments in Uaanda Relating to Strengthening the Legal
and Institutional Framework for Promoting Environmental Management.
National Environment Management Authority. Environmental Legislation of Uganda, Volume 1.
Kampala, Uganda, April 1, 2004.
National Environment Management Authority.  State of the Environment Report for Uganda.
2000/2001. Kampala, Uganda, 2001.
National Environment Management Authority. Environmental Audit Guidelines for Uganda. Kampala,
Uganda, 1999.
National Environment Management Authority. State of the Environment Report for Uganda. 1996.
Kampala, Uganda, 1997.
National Environment Management Authority. State of the Environment Report for Uganda. 1994.
Kampala, Uganda, 1995.
Malick Ak. John. Environmental and Social Management Framework for Kampala Industrial Business
Park at Namanve. Uaanda Investment Authority. Kampala. Uganda, February 27, 2004.
The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. National Report of Uganda for COP7.
http://www.ramsar.org/cop7 nr uganda.htm
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\all.doc  7-1                              December, 2004



Stone & Webster Management Consultants, Inc. Assessment of the CAPEX and OPEX of the Uqanda
Electricity Distribution Company. Houston, Texas, October, 2003.
United Nations Environment Programme. Joint Project on Environmental Law and Institutions in
Africa. Report on the Development and Harmonization of Environmental Standards in East Africa:
Uganda Country Report. httx://www. unep.orm/padelia/publicationsNOLUME2U. htm
United Nations Environment Programme. Partnership for the Development of Environmental Laws
and Institutions in Africa.  Part One:  Framework Laws and Regulations, Uganda. 1996.
http://www. unep.org/padelia/lublications/laws.html.
Q:\mw97\Projects\1 0694001\500\all.doc   7-2                               December, 2004



