                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR0000760




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-35450 IDA-3545A)




                                  ON A

                                CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR48 MILLION
                      (US$62 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                 FOR A

                         FOURTH POWER PROJECT



                               March 29, 2009




Africa Energy Team
Uganda Country Department
Africa Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2009)


                      Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
                            USh 1967.5 = US$ 1
                              US$1.51 = SDR 1


                              FISCAL YEAR


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGO    Automotive Gasoline Oil
APL    Adaptable Program Lending
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CY     Calendar Year
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
EIRR   Economic Internal rate of Return
EIRR   Economic Internal rate of Return
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
ERA    Electricity Regulatory Authority
ERT    Energy for Rural Transformation
ESIA   Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
FMS    Financial Management System
GoU    Government of Uganda
GWh    Giga Watt hours
HFO    Heavy Fuel Oil
ICR    Implementation and Completion Results Report
IDA    International Development Agency
KV     Kilo Volt
KWh    Kilo Watt hours
LVDST  Lake Victoria Decision Support Tool
LVEMP  Lake Victoria Environnemental Management Project
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MEMD   Ministry of energy and Minerals Development
MIGA   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOP    Memorandum of the President
MTR    Mid Term Review
MW     Mega Watt
NDF    Nordic Development Fund
NORAD  Norwegian International Development Agency
NPV    Net Present Value
PAD    Project appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
PEAP   Poverty Eradication Action Plan

PIU     Project Implementing Agency
PSDO    Power Sector Development operation
QEA     Quality at Entry
QSA     Quality of Supervision Assessment
SCADA   System Control and Data Acquisition
Sida    Swedish International Development Agency
UEB     Uganda Electricity Board
UEDCL   Uganda Electricity Distribution Company
UEGCL   Uganda Electricity Generation Company
UETCL   Uganda Electricity Transmission Company




                        Vice President: Obiageli Ezekwesili
                      Country Director: John McIntire
                       Sector Manager: Subramaniam V. Iyer
                   Project Team Leader: Paul Baringanire, Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius
                     ICR Team Leader: Paul Baringanire

                                              UGANDA
                                    Fourth Power Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 5
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 45
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 47
 Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 48
 Annex 7. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 50
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52

A. Basic Information

                                                                     UG-Power SIL 4
Country:                Uganda                Project Name:
                                                                     (FY02)
Project ID:             P002984               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35450,IDA-3545A
ICR Date:               03/29/2009            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     UGANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 48.0M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 47.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
Uganda Electricity Generation Company Ltd.
Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Ltd.
Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Ltd.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/14/2000    Effectiveness:                           04/04/2002
Appraisal:             10/10/2000    Restructuring(s):                        01/11/2005
Approval:              07/03/2001    Mid-term Review:                         12/04/2003
                                     Closing:             12/31/2004          03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                        Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                          Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   5                  8
Power                                                              95                 92


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary           Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                 Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization             Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          John McIntire                       James W. Adams
Sector Manager:            Subramaniam V. Iyer                 M. Ananda Covindassamy
Project Team Leader:       Paul Baringanire                    Paivi Koljonen
ICR Team Leader:           Paul Baringanire
ICR Primary Author:        Johannes Geert Grijsen
                           Gulam H. Dhalla



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(a) improve power supply to meet demand by supporting critically needed investments in
the sub-sector; and (b) strengthen Borrower capacity to manage reform, privatization, and
development in the power and the petroleum sub-sectors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval         Target         Completion or
                                             documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduced load shedding.
                                          Reduced peak load
                                          shedding                           110 MW shed at

                                          compared to                        peak time, down

Value                                     December 2004                      from 120 MW

quantitative or 20 MW shed at peak time values(120MW),                       during the last ISR.

Qualitative)                              provided                           Hydrological

                                          hydrological                       conditions

                                          conditions do not                  worsedned between

                                          worsen.                            2004-2007.

Date achieved 12/30/2001                  12/30/2001                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Hydrological conditions worsened due to the prolonged draught in the region

achievement)   from 2003-2007.

Indicator 2 :   Annual Power Generation increased by 50Gwh for unit 14 and 45GWh for unit
                15 by end of the Project

Value                                                                        19GWh for unit 14

quantitative or O GWh (Units not          95GWh                              and 0GWh for unit

Qualitative)    commissioned)                                                15 by end of
                                                                             project.
Date achieved 12/30/2001                  12/30/2001                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Only about 20% of the total estimated annual generation achieved due to the

achievement)   unfavorable basin hydrology at the time of commissioning.

Indicator 3 :   Service interruptions reduced.

Value                                     Undelivered

quantitative or 8.96GWh                   energy reduced by                  4.36GWh
Qualitative)                              30% between 2000
                                          and end 2003
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2001                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Total energy lost in outages was 4.8GWh as of 12/31/2004, representing a

achievement)    reduction of about 48% of the 2000 value

Indicator 4 :   Increased number of people connected to the electricity grid.
                                          Annual number of
Value           10,000 annual             new urban
quantitative or                           connections                        20,000 per annum
Qualitative)    connections               increased to
                                          15,000 by 2004
Date achieved 12/30/2001                  12/30/2001                         03/31/2008



                                               iii

Comments
(incl. %       Achieved. Annual connections now stand at about 130% of the target value.
achievement)
               Regulatory changes effected: (1) establish independ. sec. regulator & (2) dam
Indicator 5 :  safety framework; (3) downstream petrol. sec. law & regulations submitted to
               Pariament;& (4) Elec. Law revisions adopted.
                                                                            Electricity
                                                                            Regulatory
                                                                            Authority
                                        Establishment of                    Established June
                                        an independent                      2000;
                                        sector regulator;                   Dam Safety
                                        Establishment of                    Framework
                                        dam safety                          Completed Dec.
Value                                   framework;                          2006;
quantitative orPower and Petroleum      Downstream                          Downstream
Qualitative)   Sectors not regulated    Petroelum Sector                    Petroleum Sector
                                        Law and                             Law enacted Oct.
                                        Regulations                         2003;
                                        Enacted; Revision                   Regulations under
                                        of the Electricity                  review by the
                                        Act Adopted                         Petroleum
                                                                            Technical
                                                                            Committee

Date achieved 12/30/2001                12/30/2001                          03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised        Completion or
                                            documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Two 40 MW units commissioned by end of Project
Value                                                                       Both units were
(quantitative  Not commissioned         Both units                          commissioned
or Qualitative)                         commissioned.                       August 2007.
Date achieved 06/30/2001                09/30/2007                          03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Transmission substation installed at Kampala Industrial and Business Park by
               end-of-Project.
Value                                   Substation                          120MVA,
(quantitative  Not commissioned                                             132/33KV
or Qualitative)                         commissioned.                       substation



                                              iv

                                                                            commissioned
Date achieved 12/30/2001                  09/30/2007                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  At least one new industrial plant connected to power in the Kampala Industrial
               and Business Park within a year of installation of substation
Value
(quantitative  0 (industrial park not yet Several industries                Several industries

or Qualitative)established.)              set up.                           set up

Date achieved 12/30/2001                  06/30/2006                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved. Among the industries operating are the Century Bottling Company

achievement)   (Coca Cola) and a Mineral Water processing and bottling plant

Indicator 4 :  Environmental and Social recommendations satisfactorily implemented.
                                                                            Water quality
                                                                            monitoring (two
                                                                            reports prepared)
Value                                     Environmental                     and Environment
(quantitative  No monitoring activities Monitoring Plan                     Audit completed.
or Qualitative)                           implemented                       Project site restored
                                                                            and construction
                                                                            infrastructure
                                                                            decommissioned.
Date achieved 12/30/2002                  06/30/2007                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  ERA's (Regulator's) Office is operational by end-2002.
                                                                            Electricity
Value                                                                       Regulatory
(quantitative  No Regulator               Regulator's Office                Authority
or Qualitative)                           set up by end 2002                established June
                                                                            2000
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  12/30/2002                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved
achievement)
               A Water Management Plan prepared and implemented as measured by the
Indicator 6 :  percent deviation of water delivery compared to the approved water discharge
               arrangement.
                                                                            Decision Support

                                          A Water                           Tool has been

Value                                     Management Plan                   Developed and a set

(quantitative  No Water Management        prepared and                      of 10 Technical

or Qualitative)Plan in place.             implemented by                    papers have been

                                          end of the project                prepared. the
                                                                            Decision Support
                                                                            Tool is used by the


                                               v

                                                                            Technical Water
                                                                            committee in
                                                                            planning for the
                                                                            monthly
                                                                            hydropower
                                                                            generation.
Date achieved 12/30/2001                    12/30/2004                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Since February 2006, the hydropower generation has been following the agreed

achievement)    discharge monthly release

Indicator 7 :   A plan for the development of geothermal resources defined.
                                                                            Preliminary

                                            Surface                         assessment carried

                                            geothermal                      out (14 shallow

                                            investigations                  wells drilled in two

Value                                       completed in two                areas and

(quantitative   No geothermal               areas and                       prelliminary

or Qualitative) development plan            temperature                     geological

                                            gradient measured               geochemical

                                            in 5-10 wells                   investigations

                                            (achieved)                      completed in 25
                                                                            areas) .

Date achieved 10/01/2005                    09/30/2007                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)

Indicator 8 :   Guidelines established and implemented for petroleum industry monitoring with
                regard to quality, safety, and pricing by end-2005.
                                                                            Operational

Value                                       Operational                     guidelines for the

(quantitative   No guidelines               guidelines for                  petroleum sector

or Qualitative)                             petroleum sector                presented to the
                                            established                     TPC for
                                                                            endorsement.
Date achieved 12/30/2001                    12/30/2004                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 9 :   Percent of fuel stations monitored based on agreed sampling framework.
                                                                            Petroleum
                                                                            laboratories
Value           No monitoring of                                            installed.
(quantitative   petroleum products in                                       At least 20 petrol
or Qualitative) place                                                       stations are
                                                                            monitored monthly.

Date achieved 12/30/2001                                                    03/31/2008
Comments        Achieved.



                                                 vi

(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived            DO                       IP                 Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     12/13/2001      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     05/30/2002      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.73
  3     10/15/2002      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       4.27
  4     05/27/2003      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       7.27
  5     11/26/2003      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      10.26
  6     05/28/2004      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      19.34
  7     12/14/2004      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      33.92

  8     06/13/2005  Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately
                                               Unsatisfactory                      39.16

  9     12/21/2005  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                46.49
  10    06/30/2006  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                48.23
  11    12/28/2006  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                53.10
  12    06/28/2007  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                57.26
  13    12/14/2007  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                64.57

  14    06/27/2008       Moderately              Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                      70.82



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at    Amount

 Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at      Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                  Restructuring
                PDO Change                                      Key Changes Made
                             DO       IP      in USD
                                             millions
                                                          The restructuring was to make
                                                          use of the cost savings to
                                                          enhance the projectect
                                                          outcomes. The following new
                                                          components were included to
                                                          the original scope:(i) support to
   01/11/2005       N          S       S        35.88     the concessioning of the
                                                          ditribution company, (ii) Dam
                                                          safety and geothermal
                                                          development and (iii)
                                                          strenthening of the
                                                          environmental Monitoring
                                                          component.




                                          vii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       General context. The Fourth Power Project (Power IV) was appraised in October 2000 after
18 months of project preparation. The objectives and design of the project were based on three
contextual underpinnings: first the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) goals ­ an overarching
Government of Uganda (GoU) policy for economic growth and poverty reduction - which identified
improving access to and quality of power, transport and telecommunications as priorities for the
country's development; second the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uganda
(November 2000) with a focus on poverty reduction through sustained growth, and third the reforms
which were being implemented by the GoU in the power and petroleum sub-sectors. The Power IV
objective was, therefore, consistent with that of the PEAP and the CAS, and intended to support and
deepen the reform programs of the GoU, while bridging the anticipated electricity supply deficit
during the period 2003 - 2005.

2.       Country context. Uganda's economy had sustained a steady Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
growth rate of an average of 6.4% since 1990, with a 20% decline in poverty between 1990 and 2000.
Reform programs had been successful in establishing fiscal discipline and restructuring public
expenditure, trade liberalization, privatization and financial sector reform, and decentralization efforts
were made to improve public service delivery. Despite notable past economic achievements, the GoU
was concerned that the lack of adequate energy supply would be a serious obstacle to equitable,
sustainable growth of the economy.

3.       Sector context. Uganda was confronted by a number of challenges in the power sector,
which were affecting growth, including poor sector performance, inadequate and unreliable power
supply, less than cost reflective tariffs, low electricity access levels, and lack of monitoring of
petroleum operations with retail margins. Power IV was thus designed in an environment where only
about 5 percent of the population had access to electricity and the private sector perceived the quality
and adequacy of power supply to be the most serious constraint to private investments. The expansion
of Uganda's generating capacity had not kept pace with its rapid economic growth in recent years, thus
creating a shortage of electricity. With continued strong economic growth and concurrent high
electricity demand growth - projected at about 8 percent per year - Uganda thus needed to better
utilize its domestic hydropower energy resources. Equally important was the regulation and
monitoring of the petroleum sub-sector. The costs of oil imports to land-locked Uganda were high at
about 27 percent of the country's export revenue and likely to rise rapidly, absorbing even more of the
country's export earnings. Therefore, the provision of incentives for greater efficiency in petroleum
supply was considered critical to improve the country's balance of payments as well as its energy
balance.

4.       The GoU power sector strategy, therefore, aimed to: (a) promote legal, regulatory and
structural sector reforms, including leveraging private sector investment; (b) provide adequate,
reliable and least cost power generation with the goal of meeting urban and industrial demand and



                                                                                                        1

increasing access; and (c) scale up rural access to underpin broad based development. The design of
Power IV built on the experiences and lessons learnt under the Third Power Project (Power III), while
continuing to support the sector reform process, including the unbundling and privatization of the
Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) by granting private operators concessions for its generation and
distribution businesses.

5.       Rationale for Bank assistance. The Bank had been a long-standing and deeply involved
partner in the development of Uganda's energy sector, maintaining an intense dialogue covering
power generation, transmission and distribution, rural access to electricity, energy efficiency,
traditional fuels and the petroleum sector. The CAS (2000) also planned to improve infrastructure
delivery through the least-cost development of the power system, sector reform, and privatization. The
GoU, considering the World Bank as the lead donor in the Ugandan power sector, continued to seek
Bank advice and support in this area, and it was therefore considered important to remain strongly
engaged, especially during the critical period before the commissioning of the Bujagali plant. Whereas
several donors were assisting the GoU and UEB in financing needed investments and providing
technical assistance to sector reform, the GoU needed the financial and coordinating resources of the
Bank to implement a broad based sector reform, such as the privatization of UEB. In addition to the
proposed project, there were three other energy-related projects that helped promote the CAS
objectives in the power sector, notably (i) the Bujagali Private Power Generation Project; (ii) the
Energy for Rural Transformation (ERT) Adaptable Program Loan; and (iii) the Privatization and
Utility Sector Reform Project. More recently (2007), the Bank has also approved the funding of the
US$300 million Power Sector Development Operation.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.       Project Development Objective. The PDO was (a) to improve power supply to meet demand
by supporting critically needed investments in the sub-sector; and (b) to strengthen Borrower capacity
to manage reform, privatization, and development in the power and the petroleum sub-sectors.

7.       Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). The original outcome indicators of the project were
to: (a) reduce load shedding by early 2004; (b) increase the number of new residential connections to
15,000 annually by the end of 2004; (c) reduce system losses from 30 percent in 2000 to 24 percent by
the end of 2004; (d) reduce undelivered energy due to outages in the transmission system by 30
percent at the end of 2003; (e) implement transparent legal, regulatory and monitoring arrangements
for the power and petroleum sub-sectors by the end of 2002; and (f) improve the GoU's fiscal
sustainability.

8.       The original output indicators were: (a) an increase of between 80 and 120 MW in the
capacity of the Kiira hydro power plant by early 2004; (b) rehabilitation of critical aspects of power
system transmission and generation by early 2004; (c) training of staff of Ministry of Energy and
Minerals Development (MEMD) and Uganda's Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) by the end of
2003; (d) the establishment of petroleum sector monitoring guidelines by mid 2003; (e) procurement
of equipment to test the quality of petroleum supply by the end of 2002; and (f) the establishment of
the operating regime for Lake Victoria by the end of 2003.




                                                                                                    2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification.

9.       While the PDO remained unchanged, after the project's Mid Term Review (MTR) in
December 2003, the project was restructured (as per the Memorandum of the President dated
December 8, 2004) as significant cost savings allowed for additional financing to be freed up for
transmission and distribution. To allow for measurement of these outcomes additional indicators were
included in the results framework to cater for the new components. These were formally approved by
the Bank Board. To further enhance the quality of results reporting and to clarify the definition and
measurement of performance indicators reflected under the project agreement(s) a new results
framework was developed in November 2006, in consultation with GoU. Project outcomes were
redefined as:

  i.    Improved (hydro-) power supply to meet energy demand in Uganda, through the
        commissioning of two 40 MW units at the Kiira station; measured by: (a) reduced load
        shedding, and (b) an annual power generation increase of 50 GWh for Kiira unit 14 and 45
        GWh for unit 15. The results framework clarifies that a critical assumption, which allows for
        meeting of key targets is that the Lake Victoria hydrology has to permit releases in accordance
        with the existing water discharge arrangements.

 ii.    Improved electricity services, through the supply of distribution equipment and installation of
        a transmission substation at Kampala Industrial and Business Park; measured by (a) reduced
        service interruptions; (b) an increased number of people connected to the grid, and (c) new
        industrial plants connected to power in the Kampala Industrial and Business Park.

iii.    Improved regulatory, legislative and institutional framework in place in the power and
        petroleum sectors, through implementing before the end of the Project: (a) the establishment of
        an independent sector regulator ERA by the end of 2002; (b) the establishment of a dam safety
        framework; (c) a Water Management Plan prepared and implemented as measured by the
        percent deviation of water delivery compared to the approved water discharge arrangement;
        (d) development of a plan for the development of geothermal energy resources; (e) the
        submission to Parliament of the Downstream Petroleum Sector Law and Regulations; (f)
        implementation of guidelines for petroleum industry monitoring with regard to quality, safety
        and pricing, and (g) revision of the Electricity Law.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

10.      The project's direct beneficiaries are the electricity customers and in particular the productive
private sector, which would benefit from increased grid supply, reduced load shedding, better quality
of service, and reduced need for expensive back-up services. IDA assistance would also help to
maintain the momentum of the power sector reform program through the restructuring of UEB,
reducing the power sector's drain on public expenditures. Increased power supply with improved
reliability would facilitate higher economic growth and allow for increased access to electricity, and
thus benefit the population at large.




                                                                                                        3

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 Component 1 ­ Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation (US$83.91 million ­US$56.82
million Bank financing, US$14.40 million NORAD financing and US$12.70 million NDF
financing)

11.     Component 1 (part A) objective: to increase annual electricity generation, reduce outages in
the transmission system, reduce network losses and increase urban residential and industrial
connections. The component had several investment and institutional support sub-components,
namely: (i) installation of Kiira hydropower turbines 14 and 15 (2x40 MW); (ii) upgrading and
extension of the existing SCADA and telecommunication system; (iii) rehabilitation of critical
transmission system components to ensure operational safety, reliability and efficiency; (iv) civil
works and hydro-mechanical equipment for completion of the installation of Kiira unit 13; (v) project
design and supervision support.

1.5.2 Component 2 ­ Environmental Monitoring (US$0.21 million; no Bank financing)

12.     Component 2 (part B) objective was to provide an environmental officer and environmental
monitoring equipment to UEB, in order to ensure compliance with, and enforcement and monitoring
of the Bank's safeguard policies and Uganda's national environmental requirements, in an effort to
control any measures that might impact project quality.

1.5.3 Component 3 ­ Power Sector Development and Reform (US$2.34 million; Bank financed)

13.     Component 3 (part C) objective: to strengthen the GoU capacity at MEMD and ERA to
manage reform, privatization and development in the power sector, through providing: (i) equipment
and staff training; (ii) the Lake Victoria Water Management Study; and (iii) other studies,
consultancies, surveys and workshops relevant to the sector's development and reform program.

1.5.4 Component 4 ­ Petroleum Sector Development and Reform (US$0.94 million; US$0.90
million Bank financing)

14.     Component 4 (part D) objective: to improve the capacity of MEMD to monitor and regulate
the downstream petroleum sector through providing: (i) petroleum quality monitoring equipment,
training, and information; and (ii) consultancy services for setting-up a petroleum monitoring cell and
for design and implementation of legal and regulatory system reforms.

1.6 Revised Components

15.     The original project components were not revised nor were the objectives of the components
changed. However, the MTR (December 2003) determined about US$21 million of the Credit amount
would not be required for the completion of the project's original components, mainly due to: (a) cost
savings achieved in the procurement of power generating equipment; (b) availability of the
unallocated contingencies in the original Credit; and (c) the strengthening of the SDR against the US
dollar. These cost savings were used to restructure the project in December 2004 and enhance the
implementation of Uganda's power sector reform and privatization program, by adding the following
new sub-components to the Project:


                                                                                                     4

16.      Under Component 1:         an expansion of the scope of the Power System Expansion and
Rehabilitation component (part A) through three new sub-components, including: (i) support to the
concessioning of the Distribution Company's assets to a private consortium (US$11 million); (ii)
extension and strengthening of the power transmission system mainly through investments in
expansion of transmission capacity at the Kampala Industrial and Business Park (Namanve sub-
station), to provide reliable power supply to the manufacturing industries in Kampala (US$6.8
million); and (iii) retroactive financing of claims relating to Power III (US$2.3 million);

17.      Under Component 2: financing of mitigation measures under the Environmental Monitoring
component (US$0.15 million); and

18.      Under Component 3: expanding the scope of the Power Sector Development and Reform
component (part C) through the support of: (i) with drafting a Dam Safety Act; (ii) studies regarding
tariff adjustment; and (iii) stabilization mechanisms and assessment of geothermal energy potential
(US$0.73 million). Savings under the NDF-funded project components were reallocated towards the
rehabilitation of four transmission substations, to further reduce losses and supply interruptions. The
related amendments to the Legal Agreements (effective April 2005) also modified project
implementation arrangements to reflect recent changes in the power sector structure, as well as
procurement, disbursement, financial management and onlending arrangements, while extending the
closing date of the project to December 31, 2006. The newly constituted Transmission and
Distribution Companies were added as new Executing Agencies to the project, each requiring a
Project Agreement with IDA and a subsidiary re-lending agreement with the GoU.

1.7 Other significant changes

19.      Major Project Changes are described in paragraph 16 above. These were approved through
the following actions:

· Project Restructuring vide the Memorandum of the President, dated December 8,2004

· December 22,2004- Closing date extended to December 31,2006

· November 22, 2006 - Extension of the closing date to December 31, 2007

· December 14, 2007 - Extension of the closing date to March 31, 2008

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.      Quality at Entry Assessment. An internal Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) panel judged
the project well prepared and rated it overall as Satisfactory. The financial weakness of the power
sector, the potential for backsliding on reform, and the possibility of delays in implementation were
identified as major risks. The project's coherence with the GoU's power sector strategy and the CAS,
a high quality economic and technical analysis underpinning the project design, the Borrower's
commitment and political will to buy-in to sector reform along with privatization of the distribution
business, and a competent project preparation team backed by country and sector management were
identified as strong factors in project preparation.




                                                                                                     5

21.     Satisfactory background analysis. Lessons learned from the Power II and III operations were
incorporated in the project design, and the rationale for the Bank's intervention was sound, as also
demonstrated by the current support of the Bank for major operations in the power sector. GoU
already had initiated a comprehensive reform and privatization program, restructured and unbundled
UEB before Board presentation, and approved a major tariff increase before the project's
effectiveness.

22.     Assessment of risks. While the PAD identified several risk factors adequately, some crucial
risk factors were beyond the project control, and their advent could not be mitigated by the project as
follows:

(i)     Hydrology risk: The risk of unfavorable hydrological conditions (low hydrology) was
considered substantial for the viability of Kiira 15, and the project rightly re-evaluated unit 15 during
2002. The appraisal studies showed that if the flow is less than 620m3/s virtually all of the flow can be
passed through the 3x40MW units 11-13; at up to 820m3/s the increased flow can be used by unit 14
adding as much as 50GWh/yr whereas at flows of less than about 820m3/s Kiira 15 was found to
produce very little additional energy and hence minimal benefits. Therefore, the go-ahead of unit 15
was made conditional on additional analysis commissioned after effectiveness of the Power IV credit,
which determined the cost effectiveness of unit 15 on the basis of the actual bidding price of the
turbine and a probabilistic analysis of different hydrological scenarios. Due to the fact that the turbine
costs were much lower than estimated at appraisal, the cost effectiveness of implementing unit 15 was
readily proven. However, despite the thorough appraisal analysis conducted by the GoU and the Bank
team, information produced through the project-financed hydropower optimization study1, reveals that
the dispatch of Unit 14 and 15 is impacted on by two additional factors at low lake levels. These are:
(i) the need to maintain a certain tail water level at the Nalubaale power station for flows lower than
850m3/s; and (ii) the generator load following requirements given the different characteristics of the
Nalubaale and Kiira turbines. Under low hydrological conditions, these two factors require that the
dispatch regime of the combined Nalubaale -Kiira complex be altered from the least cost order in
order to: (i) maintain system stability; and (ii) avoid cavitation at the Nalubaale power station. Taking
these factors into account increases the hydrology risk, as under the current conditions, with units 14
and 15 making only small contributions toward filling the pre-Bujagali gap. However, based on a 30
year time horizon using the existing historic hydraulic record, the units 14 and 15 are economically
viable (see Annex 3 for a detailed analysis) with Economic Rates of Return of 54% and 37%
respectively. In addition, the recently concluded Nile Basin Initiative Strategic/ Sectoral Social and
Environmental Assessment for the Nile Equatorial Lakes Region2, analyzed the potential climate
change impacts in the region. Based on the outputs of the general conflation models, this study
concluded on power generation- indicate that there is a high probability of future increases in the
runoff, and thus higher power generation potential compared to historical data3.



1 Study on Water Management of Lake Victoria, Technical Report 7, Lake Victoria Decision Support Tool
(LVDST); WREM International Inc., November 2007

2Strategic/Sectoral Social and Environment Assessment of Power Development options in The Nile Equatorial
lakes Region, prepared by SNC-Lavalin dated February 2007.

3 Note that the economic analysis is done for this project and does not take into account of this potentially
higher hydrology. Instead the analysis assumes a continuation of historic trends.



                                                                                                              6

(ii)     Project implementation Risk. Although early commissioning was noted as an important
contributor to the project's economic benefits, the risk of delays was rated as modest. Ultimately it
took six years instead of the planned three years to complete the project. As a result, Uganda lost in
2005 approximately 50 GWh of additional energy, which could have been generated by these units
under the then prevailing release strategy.

(iii)    Bujagali Risk. The risk of the first Bujagali hydropower project (approved in December 2001)
failing to reach financial closure and its subsequent abandonment by the private sector in 2003was not
foreseen at the time of approval of Power IV (July 2001). However, given the project commitments at
that time, the project could not be restructured to include new components to meet the envisaged
generation shortfall in the coming years. Instead, a new instrument, the Power Sector Development
Operation (PSDO), was developed for this purpose.

(iv)     Network losses risk. At project appraisal, combined transmission and distribution technical
and non-technical losses were estimated at a very high 29% of electricity generated. Component 1
was intended to help address this issue, and at appraisal it was estimated that combined losses would
be reduced at an annual rate of 1.5%. At the time of appraisal a distribution concessionaire was
expected shortly, who would focus in part on loss reduction. The PAD acknowledged the risk that this
loss reduction might not materialize, and rated this risk as `moderate' in view of the imminent change
in distribution operation. However, the concession process took considerably longer than expected,
and it was not until March 2005 when UMEME assumed control of the distribution network. At that
time the distribution losses were re-evaluated at 41%. Combined with 4.5% transmission losses, the
total technical and non-technical losses amounted to 43.6% of electricity generated4. The post-project
losses at appraisal were estimated to be 22.2% based on an appraisal estimate of initial losses of 29%.
However, in view of the considerable shift in baseline values, it is inappropriate to assess performance
on the absolute values. Instead the annualized loss reduction is a more appropriate measure. In early
2009, losses stand at 35% for distribution and 4% for transmission respectively. This represents a
reduction of 6% in the four year period from 2005, compared to an appraisal estimated reduction of
6.8% in the initial project 3 year period. This loss reduction is equal to 0.9% per year over the seven
year Power IV project period, or 1.6% over the four year UMEME operation period. It is attributable
to Power IV project investments as well as UMEME investments and initiatives. The concessionare
has introduced a rigorous loss detection and reduction strategy (based on the principle of rapid
efficiency improvements, reduced non-technical losses and improved billing and collection rates).
They also have installed new and efficient equipment, including distribution level equipment funded
under the project. However, loss reduction remains a challenge due to the network wide
improvements needed. It is clear that loss reduction is heavily dependent on the concessionaire.
However, the project had little influence over either the timing of the concession, or the concession
performance. Hence the project's loss reduction performance indicator should have been much more
sharply defined.

23.      Risk Mitigation. After the withdrawal of the Bujagali project Sponsor in September 2003, it
was evident that that there would be an energy supply gap which was exacerbated by the occurrence



4 The sharp increase in estimated losses is attributed to further decline in the network between 2002 and 2005,
as well as UMEME's more thorough evaluation of billing data. The utility's losses were further exacerbated by
a collection rate of only 85% of electricity billed. The collection rate has since improved to an average of 92%




                                                                                                                7

of the low hydrology as identified in the project appraisal risk analysis. The project task team did
discuss with GoU the optimal means of meeting the envisaged deficit. This ultimately resulted in the
ongoing Power Sector Development Operation which includes support for additional emergency
thermal generation, energy efficiency, long term sector planning and sector financial viability. In the
meantime, GoU procured 50 MW thermal capacity in May 2005, followed by an additional 50 MW
thermal capacity in November 2006. The project team maintained an active and continuous dialogue
with the GoU regarding the over-abstraction of Lake Victoria waters from 2004 onwards.

24.      Adequacy of GoU's commitment. The Borrower was strongly committed to the Project as
evidenced by its willingness to carry out comprehensive sector reforms such as power sector
restructuring, privatization, and tariff rationalization.

2.2 Implementation

25.      Overall Project Implementation: The project was designed as a "fast track" primarily
expected to provide the needed incremental energy before the commissioning of the next major power
station then expected in 2005. The project therefore had a three year implementation period up to end
2004. During the initial years of implementation, the overall project implementation progress was
satisfactory, mainly due to the initiation of the procurement activities before project effectiveness. The
Petroleum component had a slower than expected progress during the initial years mainly due to the
time taken to enact the Petroleum Supplies Act. Subsequent to the MTR, and in recognition of the
considerable cost savings in the main procurements, the project was restructured and the project
implementation period extended for an additional two years to allow for completion of the new
components.

26.      Mid-term Review (MTR) and subsequent
restructuring of the project. The assessment of
overall progress by the MTR conducted in
December 2003 concluded that the project had
made     significant    progress     towards      the
achievement of the PDO and that the objectives
continued to be both relevant and achievable in
relation to the specific KPIs, although progress
differed   between     components.      The    MTR
recommended       extension     of    the    project
completion date until December 31, 2006, and
reallocation of US$21 million in cost savings for
new activities supporting the PDO. The primary
reallocation was under component 1 in support of the concessioning of power system distribution
assets to a private operator and improvement in the reliability and service coverage of the transmission
system (see Section 1.6). The support provided through Power IV to the concessioning process was
part of a broader security package provided by the World Bank Group aimed at enhancing the
attractiveness of the concession agreement. The package also included political risk insurance cover
from MIGA for the concessionaire ­ Umeme- and an IDA guarantee of US$5.5 million under the
Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project.

27.      Project implementation after Restructuring. The overall project implementation progress from
2005 was slower than expected with delays incurred due to a variety of technical problems with
turbine commissioning and the procurements related to the new project components. The final


                                                                                                        8

commissioning of Kiira 14 and 15 caused a delay in project implementation of about 2.5 years, while
completion of the sub-components added through the project restructuring caused another 6 months
delay as detailed below.

· Commissioning of Kiira units 14/15. The units were substantially completed during the second
    and third quarter of 2005 (June and August for Units 14 and 15 respectively) but defects noted
    during commissioning tests (e.g. vibration) delayed commercial operation of the units by about
    2.5 years. The commercial operation dates for units 15 and 14 are February 22, 2007 and August 4,
    2007 respectively.

· Transmission and distribution sub-components. The completion of the Bank-funded Namanve
    transmission substation at the Kampala Industrial and Business Park (added under the project
    restructuring) was delayed by one year primarily due to, the take-over of the supplier by Siemens,
    which was beyond the control of GoU and the Bank, and the subsequent delayed arrival of the
    transformers.

· Petroleum component. There was a delay in setting up of the petroleum supplies department
    mainly due to the change in the overall public service strategy, with the appointment of the
    departmental staff being put on hold until completion of the civil service reform. The public
    service finally approved the department structure in late 2006, after which the core staff was
    appointed. The new staff was then able to fast track implementation activities related to the
    Petroleum Technical Committee, setting up and operationalizing the petroleum supplies
    monitoring and testing activities.

28.     Project Management. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) reviews have judged the
implementation capacity of the PIU as adequate. The project's policy components were supervised by
the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD), while the remainder of the components
were implemented by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Both entities have generally been
diligent in following up on project implementation issues and ­ after a slow start - have issued the
required monitoring reports on time. Overall GoU commitment was consistently maintained
throughout the project period.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.     M&E design. The project design contained a number of very specific performance indicators.
These indicators covered both institutional development related to the management and regulation of
the sector, as well as project outcomes and outputs, such as targeted load shedding ratios, loss
reductions, new electricity connections per year, etc. Some of the indicators were appropriate and
suitable as indicators towards the PDO, while others were beyond the control of the project such as
reducing load shedding and loss reduction, hence cannot be easily used to evaluate the project
performance. While the PDO remained unchanged, a new results framework was developed in
November 2006, in consultation with the GoU, to clarify the definition and measurement of
performance indicators reflected under the project agreement(s).

30.     M&E implementation. As noted from staff reports, key performance indicators were
continuously tracked during the project implementation.




                                                                                                    9

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

31.      The project complied with the identified safeguard policies (OP 4.01, 4.37 and 7.50) at both
preparation and implementation phases. Issues were generally minor because of the local and rather
small scale nature of the works involved (placing two generating units in existing bays, construction
of transmission sub-stations, etc), but the wider environmental issues were also addressed. An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared for the restructured project. The final
environmental supervision mission (October 2007) concluded that the project had either carried out
the various environmental management activities as required under the MOP dated December 8, 2004,
or had taken steps to complete them. The ICR team in April 2008 confirmed that all these activities
had been completed at project completion. In its original form, the project had no direct social
impacts, but was an enabling project from the standpoint of poverty reduction. However, with the
restructuring in late 2005, the project added a transmission and a distribution component which had
resettlement and land acquisition issues. Project impacts were minor and have been remedied. The
brick makers affected by the transmission substation were adequately compensated. Compliance with
environmental and social safeguards is assessed as satisfactory.

32.      The project's financial management performance was assessed in January 2008. The financial
management performance by UETCL (Components 1 and 2) was rated Satisfactory, based on an
adequate accounting system, regular quarterly budget monitoring, adequate accounting policies and
procedures, and a satisfactory internal control system. MEMD's financial management performance
(Components 3 and 4) showed moderate weaknesses in the above areas, and was thus assessed as
Moderately Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

33.      Overall, project sustainability is judged satisfactory, since the project investments are
expected to attain their projected useful lifetime and the technical assistance support been
incorporated into long term effort as described below.

34.      MEMD has established an Energy and Mineral Development Sector Working Group (EMD-
SWG), covering Energy Development, Petroleum Exploration and Minerals Development, with the
objective of aligning the work within the sector closely with national priorities and strengthening the
cross-sectoral links between MEMD's activities and other sectors. A Sector Investment Plan is under
preparation.

35.      UEGCL has signed a retainer agreement with the Project Engineer for technical support
during the defects liability period for Kiira units 14 and 15, in addition to procuring adequate spares
for the plant operation.

36.      UETCL has mainstreamed project activities by creating a Projects Department for the
management of future projects, while MEMD has created a Hydropower Unit for the management of
activities related to hydropower development in Uganda.

37.      A task force, comprised of officials from Umeme, ERA and MEMD, has been formed to
monitor the progress made in the distribution sector with regard to the Loss Reduction Action Plan,
currently implemented by the Distribution Concessionaire.

38.      The operation of the petroleum laboratories jointly with the Uganda National Bureau of
Standards has enabled charging of user fees (since UNBS is self accounting and allowed to charge
user fees), hence raising operational revenue that could not easily be met from the Annual Central


                                                                                                    10

Budget allocation. Thus it is expected that generation of self revenues will enable the monitoring
activities to be self sustaining.

39.      The end use energy efficiency program activities initiated under the project will continue to
be implemented under other World Bank supported projects among which are the Energy for Rural
Transformation Program (ERTP) and the Power Sector Development Operation. Under the ERTP, an
Efficient Lighting program has been initiated comprising of: (i) installation of 600,000 Compact
Fluorescent Lights (which has reduced the electricity system demand peak load by about 20MW); (ii)
development of CFL equipment standards; and (iii) procurement of a CFL testing equipment to ensure
conformity to the standards. In addition, GoU has waived import duties on all approved efficient
lighting equipment to reduce the initial costs and encourage their use. The Power Sector Development
Operation, co-financed by Sida, includes detailed energy audits of public institutions, and commercial
enterprises; and based on the findings of the audits will also support investments in energy efficiency
in selected public institutions in addition to developing capacity of local consultants with regard to
energy efficiency.

40.      The results of the geothermal surface exploration are being reviewed.         As appropriate,
proposals will be advanced for follow on actions to move the geothermal exploration to the next stage
of exploratory drilling. This would pave the way for detailed feasibility studies. The results of the
preliminary geochemical investigations on the rest of the Uganda geothermal areas will be used to
rank the areas for detailed surface exploration and development.

41.      Follow on arrangements for sustaining reforms and institutional capacity have been included
in the Bank funded operations (Bujagali and PSDO projects) which are supporting short-term
thermal and long-term hydropower generation facilities, and GoU's measures to stabilize the power
sector and strengthening the sector's reform achievements. These operations strengthen sustainability
of the Power IV outcome by ensuring that a cost-reflective tariff is paid to the generation plant, thus
making it possible to operate and maintain it to best practice standards over the long term. Other
development partners, such as Japan, Norway, Sweden, EU, and Germany, are also supporting GoU in
the power sector, including support to Umeme in reducing non-technical energy losses and improving
the billing and collection rates through the implementation of its Loss Reduction Action Plan.

42.      The Interministerial Water Management Committee has been established and continues to
operate. The Lake Victoria Decision Support Tool (LVDST), financed by the project, is used at
MEMD and UEGCL to assist the utility operators and the Water Management Committee with short-
term optimization of power generation, and to support medium and long term power planning;

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43.      The project development objective remained fully relevant to Uganda's development
priorities consistent with the PEAP and the Bank's CAS. This is also demonstrated by IDA's
subsequent approval of new operations in the power sector (Bujagali hydropower and PSDO projects)
which build on project achievements.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44.      The achievement of the PDO with respect to improving the power supply objective is rated
Moderately Satisfactory. The project outputs led to improved system reliability and increased installed



                                                                                                    11

capacity though the expected additional energy generation has not been achieved (only about 20%).
This is mainly due to reasons beyond the project's control; namely onset of low hydrology conditions
and delayed project implementation. The project achieved Satisfactory results in terms of
strengthening the Borrower's capacity to manage reform, privatization and development in the power
sub-sector. The achievements by component are presented in Annex 2 and summarized below. The
ICR ratings take account of the entire project implementation period, as well as additional detailed
analysis based on information availed by some of the project studies (especially the hydropower
optimization) and data available after the project closing date. For this reason, the ratings differ
somewhat from the implementation status reports ratings which were mainly based on incremental
project implementation progress.

45.      Component 1 ­ The results/outcomes achieved by the power system expansion and
rehabilitation component are mixed, but overall rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Positive
developments were that the annual outages in the transmission system (132 kV) have been reduced to
3.69 GWh as of December 2007, representing a 59% reduction as compared to a 30% target reduction.
The number of new connections to the electricity grid per annum has increased, averaging about
20,000 as compared to the forecasted 10,000. However, the component did not meet its power supply
objective of increasing the generation by about 95GWh per annum on commissioning of units 14 and
15.As at project closure, the additional energy generated by the units was about 20% (19GWh) of the
estimated amount at project appraisal.

46.      Component 2 - The environmental monitoring component achieved satisfactory
results/outcomes, due to full implementation of EMPs, compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies
and Uganda's national environmental requirements, and implementation of all required mitigation
measures. The project has not generated substantial negative environmental and social impacts. Minor
project impacts have been remedied and adequately compensated.

47.      Component 3 ­ The results/outcomes achieved by the power sector development and reform
component are rated Satisfactory. The sector development component has contributed to institutional
changes and practices that have become standard practice among which are; (i) the establishment of
ERA as an independent and well performing power sector regulator; (ii) the unbundling of UEB into
separate entities responsible for generation, transmission and distribution and the long-term
concessioning of the generation and distribution facilities to the private sector; (iii) implementation of
a realistic and adequate tariff structure; (iv) improved water management of Lake Victoria although
releases are still above the Agreed Curve release policy; (v) establishment of a Dam Safety
Framework; and (vi) progress with the development of alternative energy sources, such as mini-hydro
power, increase of cogeneration and the development of a plan for the use of geothermal energy
resources.

48.      Component 4 ­ The results/outcomes achieved by the petroleum sector development and
reform component are rated Satisfactory. The setting up of petroleum laboratories has enhanced the
capacity of both the MEMD and the Uganda National Bureau of Standards to carry out inspections
and enforce standards in addition to assisting the Uganda Revenue Authority to minimize the dumping
of petroleum products into the Uganda market.

3.3 Efficiency

49.      A summary of the sector financial performance and project economic analysis is presented in
Annex 3.



                                                                                                       12

3.3.1 Financial Performance

50.      In order to ensure the financial viability of the power sector, the following financial targets
were required: (i) Debt service coverage of 1.0 times in 2001 and 1.3 times from 2002 onwards of net
operating revenues; and (ii) A current ratio of 1.0 times in 2001 and 1.2 times from 2002 onwards.

51.      The key annual operational and financial performance indicators of the power sector covering
the period 2000 to 2008, together with forecasts in the PAD, are set out in tables 1 and 2 in Annex 3.
The financial performance of the power sector during the implementation of the project can be
separated into three distinct periods:


(i)      2000 to March 2001: Prior to the unbundling of UEB.

(ii)     April 2001 to February 2005: Unbundled power sector and prior the concessioning of
         generation and distribution businesses to the private sector.

(iii)    March 2005 to date: Since the commencement of private operators in generation and
         distribution and the onset of the power crisis.

52.      2000 to March 2001: Prior to the unbundling of UEB. The GoU had set in motion various
measures in preparation for the unbundling of UEB and other power sector reforms. Following the
appointment of new management in April 1999, the operational and financial performance of UEB
had improved considerably in 2000. UEB's cash collection increased by about 40%, administration
and overheads were reduced, 1,100 staff were retrenched between 1998 and 2000, and UEB increased
its debt service payments to the GoU from USh1.5 billion to USh7.4 billion in 2000. In spite of these
improvements, however, UEB faced considerable challenges, such as: (i) reducing high network
losses (UEB failed to collect approximately 40% of the energy sent out); (ii) full cost recovery; and
(iii) meeting the significant investment needs for the rehabilitation and expansion of the network,
including generation capacity additions and increasing customer access to electricity.

53.      April 2001 to February 2005: Unbundled power sector and prior to the concessioning of
generation and distribution businesses to the private sector.           The separation of generation,
transmission and distribution enabled the three new entities (UEGCL, UETCL and UEDCL) to focus
more clearly on their respective businesses. During this period, GoU appointed an independent
electricity regulator (ERA), undertook the financial restructuring of UEB debt prior to its vesting to
successor companies, and introduced cost reflective tariffs for: (i) generation; (ii) bulk supply to
distribution (generation plus transmission); and (iii) end-use customers which set the stage for
transparency and a financially viable power sector.

54.      Since the commencement of private operators in generation and distribution and the onset
of the power crisis Effective March 1, 2003, UEGCL's hydro power operations at Nalubaale/Kiira
were handed over to Eskom (Uganda) Limited, and in March 2005 UEDCL's operation of the
distribution network across the country were handed over to Umeme Limited. Since then, the primary
roles of UEGCL and UEDCL are to provide oversight of their respective concessionaire's activities.
UEGCL and UEDCL derive their revenues from lease charges to Eskom (Uganda) and Umeme
respectively.

55.      UEGCL's performance has been satisfactory since March 1, 2005. The company has met its
debt service obligations in full; annual debt service payments since 2006 have amounted to US$8.4




                                                                                                     13

million. The Bank's financial covenant of 1.0 times debt service cover has been met in 2005 to 2007
and was also expected to be met in 20085.

56.      UEDCL's performance has been satisfactory since March 1, 2005. The company has made
debt service payments of US$22.7 million from 2002 to 2007. UEDCL met the Bank's financial
covenant of 1.0 times debt service cover in 2006 and 2007, and this was also expected to be met in
2008. However, the debt service cover in 2005 was only 0.3 times, largely due to staff retrenchment
payments following the transfer of operations to Umeme.

57.      UETCL had a negative cash flow in 2005 and thus failed to meet the cash flow covenant (as
defined in the Project Agreement: i.e. meet debt service, working capital requirements and
investments from own resources, from net revenues) because the bulk supply tariff was not
sufficiently increased to meet UETCL's requirements. UETCL had met part of its power purchase
costs from past accumulated surpluses (such payments affect current year earnings as the charge goes
to the income statement & cash flows). UETCL's performance in 2005 was negatively affected by:
(a) increasing reliance on thermal power and high fuel prices with inadequate increase in its bulk
supply tariff, and (b) support provided by the company from its accumulated surpluses towards the
cost of fuel. Since 2006, UETCL has met all of its revenue requirements following increases in bulk
supply tariffs and higher GoU subsidies towards thermal power costs. Similarly, UETCL will be
financially supported by GoU subsidy and IDA support for thermal power supply from Aggreko's
50MW leased plant at Mutundwe, commissioned in early September 2008.

58.      Umeme's financial performance is satisfactory. The net after tax income as a percentage of
revenue was 3.2% in 2007 and 4.9% in 2006, and the return (operating income after tax) on its own
invested capital was 7.0% in 2007 and 14.1% in 2006. The current or liquidity ratio was healthy at
1.5 times in 2007 and 1.4 times in 2006. In 2007, Umeme's shareholders injected USh24.8 billion
(US$14.3 million) in equity and loans (net of repayments). Cash inflows from operations (after
changes in working capital), amounted to USh2.2 billion (US$2.0 million) in 2007 and USh40.4
billion (US$23.4 million) in 2006. Umeme's investments in the network amounted to USh34.9 billion
(US$20.1 million) in 2007 and USh12.6 billion (US$6.8 million) in 2006.            In addition, IDA
contributed US$11.8 million towards the cost of poles, transformers and customer meters, funded
under the Power IV project.

3.3.2 Economic Analysis

59.      The economic analysis undertaken as part of the ICR used the information available in early
2009 to assess the economic viability of Units 14 and 15. These data were then inserted into the model
used during the PAD analysis, as is the standard practice for ICR reviews of project performance.
Table 1 below shows the economic results for units 14 and 15 under the ICR review compared with
the economic results from 2001 and 2002.




5ICR Financial review was conducted before the close of 2008




                                                                                                   14

Table 1: Economics of Kiira Units 14 and 15

                                  NPV (US$ million)                        EIRR (%)

                              Unit 14     Unit 15       Both        Unit    Unit 15      Both
                                                        Units        14                  Units
 WB Project
 Appraisal Document             21.1        10.9        32.1         22         18         20
 (2001)
 Economic Review
 (2002)                         23.7        8.7         32.5         39         36         38

 Update ICR 2009                39.1        23.5        62.7         54         37         46

60.      Table 1 illustrates that the changes in framework conditions have positively affected the
viability of Units 14 and 15 at Kiira Hydropower Plant, despite the late commissioning of the units in
2007. The benefit of Kiira is mainly increased compared to the original estimates from 2001 and 2002
due to the further delay in the construction of Bujagali hydropower plant, which makes the availability
of Units 14 and 15 more valuable than previously estimated. While in the original estimate there was
only a difference of two years between commissioning of Kiira Units 14 and 15, now there are four
years of difference. Annex 3 presents the results in detail.

61.      Long Term Benefits. The decision to have Kiira power station designed to accommodate
5x40MW units is detailed in the Third Power Project Reports (PAD and ICR) which was, among
others, motivated by safety concerns regarding the spill way capacity and the cracking of the concrete
structure at the Nalubaale power station6. In the long term, having Kiira as a complete power station is
considered beneficial to Uganda because it: (i) provides flexibility in power generation capacity; and
(ii) minimizes dam failure risks7 for Uganda and other riparian states. In addition, the Nile Basin
Initiative Strategic/ Sectoral Social and Environmental Assessment for the Nile Equatorial Lakes
Region8, indicates that there is a high probability of increases in the runoff due to climate changes.
Although this is not modeled in the current analysis, this factor would further enhance the economic
value of the two units.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62.      Project component A, representing 90% of the IDA resources and 60% of the total project
costs, is rated Moderately Satisfactory and the remaining three components are rated Satisfactory. The
main project component (by cost) has mixed results, with 50 percent of the component outcomes rated



6 The cracking affects only the power station at Nalubaale and not the dam. Hence this does not represent a dam
safety issue.

7 The primary failure risk addressed by Kiira is the potential for high water that might otherwise overtop
Nalubaale.

8Strategic/Sectoral Social and Environment Assessment of Power Development options in The Nile Equatorial
lakes Region, prepared by SNC-Lavalin dated February 2007.




                                                                                                             15

satisfactory whereas the other 50 percent achieved only about 20 percent of the expected results in
terms of additional energy generated. Overall, about 70 percent of components achieved satisfactory
outcomes. Further, the Borrower's capacity to manage reform, privatization and development in the
power sector has been strengthened as evidenced from the fact that a regulatory environment
conducive to attracting private investments into the sector9 is in place; and measures have been taken
to ensure sustainability for future operations of the various activities among which are the sector
development, maintenance and operation of the project outputs, system loss reduction, energy
efficiency and sector reforms. Following the reforms and by adopting cost reflective tariffs, the sector
is positioned to be a financial contributor to the economy rather than detracting resources from the
GoU budget as highlighted in Annex 3A- Financial Performance.

63.      The overall project outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory in consideration of the
implementation delays and the onset of risks beyond the control of the project; namely: (i) the
withdrawal of the first Bujagali project sponsor leading to the increased generation deficit beyond
2005, (ii) delay in concessioning of the distribution facilities and a commensurate delay in initiation of
loss reduction investments which have delayed system losses to the project target levels; and (iii)
onset of low hydrological conditions which led to achieving only about 20 percent of the project
target additional energy at project close.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Institutional Change/Strengthening

64.      The project achieved its objective regarding reform, capacity building and institutional
development in the power and petroleum sub sectors with regard to strengthening the borrower's
capacity to manage reform, privatization and development in the power and petroleum sub sectors as
evidenced from the following outcomes:

i.   The privatization process has progressed with the generation and distribution functions put under
     concession in 2003 and 2005 respectively;

ii. The Regulator's office is fully operational and has issued several licenses for new generation and
     distribution projects ;

iii. The Petroleum supplies department is operational and carrying out licensing activities including
     product quality monitoring and inspection for compliance.

(b)      Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

65.      Because of the relationship between power supply, economic development and poverty
alleviation, as elaborated in the PEAP and CAS, the project intended to contribute to the reduction of
poverty by removing one of the most significant obstacles to private sector development, namely with
the limited and unreliable electricity supply. In addition, the project-supported sector reforms and
privatization were necessary for commercial operation of the sector and to reduce the burden of the


9 The Major sector reforms detailed in section 3.2 have facilitated private sector participation with increased
private capital investments in the sector totaling to about US$1.0 billion.




                                                                                                               16

sector on public finances. Though the target of increasing the power supply has not been met as at
project closure, there were increases in both reliability of power supply and access over the project
period. The necessary sector regulatory framework has been put in place which has enabled GoU to
reduce subsidies to the sector in addition to leveraging resources with those from the private
investments into the sector. It may thus be concluded that the project contributed significantly to
poverty alleviation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

i.   Sector Development - Due to its continuous involvement in the power sector, the Bank ­ through
     the follow up operation, the Power Sector Development Operation - has taken the lead in assisting
     the GoU in meeting the short term capacity generation requirements, promoting energy efficiency
     and developing a Sector Investment Plan aimed at optimizing the sector investment requirements
     with regard to increased generation and access.

ii. Downstream Petroleum Sector ­ In order to improve the efficiency of petroleum supply system
     and as a follow up of one of the recommendations of the study supported by the project, the GoUs
     of Kenya and Uganda have agreed to the extension of the oil pipeline from Kenya to Uganda
     whose installation is expected to commence in CY 2009.The pipeline extension is expected to
     reduce the cost of transporting petroleum supplies to Uganda by about 50% and to improve
     reliability of supply.

iii. Cross-Sectoral Collaboration on Lake Victoria water management. Concerns about the declining
     water levels of Lake Victoria, caused by over-abstraction (increased releases above the Agreed
     Curve for power generation) and drought in the period 2003-2005, have intensified cross-sectoral
     collaboration and coordination regarding the management of Lake Victoria, at the regional level
     through EAC, at the national level in Uganda (among institutions such as the water, energy and
     environment ministries and the Inter-Governmental Working Committee) and within the Bank
     (through the Bank's Lake Victoria Discussion Group). Similarly, the multiple negative impacts of
     the declining lake levels also provided an impetus for the preparation of Phase II of the Lake
     Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP).

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

66.      Two consumer satisfaction surveys were conducted in 2003 and 2004. The surveys indicated
that a majority of consumers in the main cities were satisfied with the improvements in the quality and
quantity of electricity supply. Subsequent annual surveys were not carried out in consideration of the
onset of increased load shedding starting 2005. However, those living outside of those areas were
much less satisfied. Under the ongoing Power Sector Development Operation, a Poverty and Social
Impact Assessment will be carried out and will also cover the consumers' ability and willingness to
pay for electricity.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

67.      The risk to the Development Outcome of this operation is rated as Low. With regard to the
power supply objective, it is clear that the project has supported installation of generation and
transmission facilities that will sustain power supply reliability over the long term. Further, measures
are being taken to diversify and increase power generation to mitigate both the risks posed by the



                                                                                                     17

variability of the hydrology of Lake Victoria and petroleum prices. Other risk factors related to the
sector development components are also rated Low. Institutional changes are already implemented
(unbundling of UEB and privatization of generation and distribution businesses through long-term
concessions, enhanced performance of regulatory body). The GoU assigns a high priority to a stable
and growing power sector in supporting its poverty alleviation and economic development programs,
and the Bank and other development partners are presently funding several substantial new operations
in the power sector, including institutional support for sector reform and development.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

68.      The QEA judged the project well prepared and rated it overall as Satisfactory. The
prioritization of the Bank funded Power IV activities was done within the context of the GoU's
overall power sector strategy and reform program, with NORAD and the NDF as co-financiers in the
Project. The Bank funded activities were demarcated giving due consideration to the interests of other
donors in financing particular activities. This ensured coordination and harmonization of donors/Bank
interventions to support a GoU owned sector program.

69.      Power IV was designed on the basis of experiences and lessons learned under Power III.
Design and bidding documents were available prior to project approval to enhance timely completion
of the facilities. In addition, taking note of the hydrological risk and uncertainties, detailed reviews
were undertaken especially with regard to Unit 15.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

70.      Successive Quality of Supervision Assessments rated the supervision performance of the
project as satisfactory, based on a capable and hardworking Task Team, high quality supervision
documentation, and effective working relations with the GoU counterparts. In particular, the Bank: (i)
allowed for flexibility in terms of resources and time which supported project completion; (ii)
provided additional expertise, to advise the Borrower on hydrological and other issues; (iii) responded
promptly to operational issues (procurement, and financial administration); (iv) responded well to the
restructuring and amendments to the DCA requested by the Borrower; and (v) ensured adequate cross-
sectoral coordination regarding the concerns on the decline of Lake Victoria level.

71.      The project was well supervised by a stable Bank team, consisting of multi-disciplinary
members, and without significant changes in team composition throughout implementation.
Supervision teams were supported by specialists for addressing specific issues which had been
identified. The quality and availability of the supervision team have been high and frequent, also since
part of the team was based in the country office. Issues which could affect project implementation
were identified in a timely manner, documented, and brought to the attention of management.
Procurement was regularly monitored, including post-reviews conducted as part of the supervision



                                                                                                      18

missions' activities. Procurement rating moved from unsatisfactory to moderately satisfactory in the
supervision reports. Financial Management supervision has been satisfactory and the adequacy of
financial management arrangements has been reviewed regularly, although in some important areas
GoU failed to implement the recommended actions on a timely basis. Safeguards policies were
specifically monitored and addressed, and the team worked with the relevant agencies to help ensure
environmental and social due diligence, inter alia through the implementation of an EMP. Bank
Management was consistently supportive of the Task Team's effort and provided support for a major
restructuring of the project and several extensions of the closing date. The quality and candor of
supervision reports was good, including reporting on the outcome indicators. The MTR was of good
quality and proposed an extensive reallocation and restructuring plan. The adequate supervision
ensured the implementation of MTR recommendations.

72.     Supervision budget requirements have at times been challenging, as: (i) the Lake Victoria
crisis and the Lake Victoria Management Study required the recruiting of an additional consultant
hydrologist; (ii) the unsatisfactory status of the petroleum component required active engagement of
the team's petroleum specialist; and (iii) the technical problems with Kiira units 14 and 15 required
active engagement of additional engineering expertise in addition to the team's experts.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

73.     The overall Bank performance was Satisfactory. Assessments of the Quality at Entry as well
as Quality of Supervision have been rated satisfactory. Adequate teams and resources were fielded
during the preparation, appraisal and supervision. When it became clear that the Bujagali power plant
could not be commissioned as expected in 2005, the Bank teams engaged GoU on the options to
consider in bridging the expected generation deficit such as emergency power generation and energy
efficiency measures. The continued Bank engagement and support resulted in additional financing
through follow up operations. These included investments and technical assistance in energy
efficiency, renewable energy, access expansion, sector reform and emergency thermal generation.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

74.     Initially, the project faced issues regarding counterpart funding, the settlement of arrears of
GoU entities in payment of electricity bills, tariff adjustments, and other issues, but these issues were
resolved midway through the project except for GoU entities payment of electricity bills who were
resolved at the end of the Project. Overall, GoU demonstrated a satisfactory level of ownership and
commitment to the successful completion of the project, notwithstanding the challenges the project
experienced during its implementation. The GoU demonstrated commitment by establishing the
independent Electricity Regulation Authority (ERA) and in its commitment to the unbundling of UEB
and the privatization of the power generation and distribution businesses. However, the GoU was slow
to come to terms with the power shortfall implications of the first Bujagali Project Sponsor's




                                                                                                      19

withdrawal. More agile planning, including an early mobilization of thermal power could have
reduced the generation deficit and the negative impacts on Lake Victoria.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

75.      Project Quality of Supervision Assessments have judged the implementation capacity of the
PIU as adequate. The project's policy components were supervised by the MEMD, while the
remainder of the components were implemented by the PIU. Both entities have generally been diligent
in following up on project implementation issues and ­ after a slow start - have issued the required
monitoring reports on time. Overall GoU commitment was consistently maintained throughout the
project period, as evidenced by the subsequent supervision reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

76.      The Borrower gave support and good will to the project,. The Borrower demonstrated a firm
commitment to the sector reforms by setting up a sector framework conducive for private sector
involvement and sector financial viability which underpins the long term sector good performance and
sustainability.

6. Lessons Learned

77.      Realism in project implementation planning. The Bank should be realistic about the time it
takes to complete a project of this nature, taking into account the implementation capacity of the
Borrower and the potential technical and logistic problems with project implementation. This has an
impact on the project outcomes especially when considering least cost options for short term
interventions especially as the least-cost alternative for increasing power supply is not necessarily the
least-cost option for reducing power shortages. Power shortages need to be addressed from demand,
supply (generation) and distribution management angles by focusing on the installation of new
generation capacity, addressing energy efficiency at the user end and reducing system losses through
appropriate action plans. Though the project included all these aspects, energy efficiency and loss
reduction were beyond the control of the project scope.

78.      Project Scope. The project included both specific investments and policy issues, such as
enactment of the Petroleum Law, energy sector reforms and establishment of a conducive regulatory
environment to attract private operators in the generation and distribution areas. The project covered a
menu of options aimed at long term sector reliability, efficiency and sustainability, though the
available financing could not support all the required interventions apart from maintaining a strong
dialogue with the respective stakeholders. Projects of such a nature should be more targeted, or
provided sufficient resources and implementation periods to achieve the desired results.

79.      Water resources management and energy planning and development in the Lake Victoria
Basin need to be integrated on the basis of a shared vision plan. Lake Victoria riparian countries need
to establish a shared vision plan for the management of Lake Victoria, which ensures the equitable
utilization of this water resource, while keeping in view the interests of downstream countries. There


                                                                                                      20

is also an imperative need to assess the risks and vulnerabilities associated with the Lake's
hydrological variability and develop mitigation measures through integrated water and energy
planning.

80.      Privatization of power generation and distribution does not necessarily provide quick
remedies in terms of ensuring efficient operations of the power sector and improved quality of supply
and access, as demonstrated by the difficulties in reducing distribution losses in Uganda. However,
over time a financially viable generation and distribution business will help to mitigate the perceived
risks of future private investors.

81.      Development objectives should be more tightly focused on impacts realistically achievable by
the project. The project design contained a number of very specific performance indicators. Some of
the indicators such as reducing load shedding and loss reduction, were beyond the control of the
project hence cannot be easily used to evaluate the project performance. With hindsight, the
development objective regarding the increase of power supply (or, alternatively, the reduction of
power shortages) could have been more modest, considering that the justification was based on
assumptions outside the control of the project; namely the project implementation period and
hydrological conditions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's Implementation Completion Report notes that albeit the low hydrological conditions
at project completion and delays in implementation, the project registered significant achievements in
the area of capacity building in both the power and petroleum sub sectors. The Borrower rates the
project performance as satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers

NORAD prepared an independent program completion report covering NORAD support to the sector
for the period 1997-2005 and notes that the results of support to sector are mixed with reference to
capacity building and the cost effectiveness of the procurements. Reference to the cost effectiveness
of the procurements mainly arises from the restricted bidding procedures as applied by the respective
agencies at the time.

NDF in summary notes that the objectives of the NDF-sub-components were achieved and the project
satisfactorily reached the expected outcomes and concurs with the IDA assessment that overall
results/outcomes achieved by the power system expansion and rehabilitation component, including the
two NDF-sub-components, are mixed, but overall rated as moderately satisfactory.




                                                                                                    21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
           Components                                                       Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                          millions)          Appraisal

POWER SYSTEM EXPANSION
AND REHABILITATION                       83.87               80.5               96.0

POWER SECTOR REFORM
AND DEVELOPMENT                           2.35                5.62             240.0

ENVIRONMENTAL
MONITORING                                0.21                0.040              19

PETROLEUM SECTOR
REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT                    0.97                1.10             113.4


              Total Baseline Cost        87.40               87.26              99.8

Physical Contingencies                                        0.00              0.0

Price Contingencies                                           0.00              0.0
               Total Project Costs       87.40               87.26              99.8
Front-end fee PPF                         1.94                0.522             27.0
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                 0.00             .00
       Total Financing Required          89.34               87.78              98.3




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds             Type of       Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions)     millions)
Borrowing Agency                                  6.00           0.60         10
Borrower                                          3.34           4.10         122.8
International Development Association
(IDA)                                             62.00          61.16        99.4

Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                     11.30          14.70        130.0
NORWAY: Norwegian Agency for
Dev. Coop. (NORAD)                                6.70           6.70         100




                                                                                         22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 ­ Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation: The main (investment) component of
the project achieved the following outputs:

· Commissioning of two 40 MW units (Kiira 14 and 15);

· Upgrading and extension of the existing SCADA and telecommunication system (NDF funded);

· Installation of the Namanve substation at the Kampala Industrial and Business Park, along
    with the NDF and NORAD funded rehabilitation and extension of 8 transmission
    substations;

· Feasibility study and ESIA for the rehabilitation of the Tororo-Lira 132kV transmission line;

· Provision of US$11 million in distribution equipment, including equipment for the connection of
    new consumers, in support of the concessioning of the Distribution Company's assets to the
    private company Umeme;

· Consultancy services for design and supervision of the installation of Kiira 14 and 15; and for
    review of the technical and economic viability of Kiira unit 15.

· Assistance to the GoU with the preparation of the revised Bujagali power plant project, including
    technical services in the tender design and preparation of bidding documents, and legal and
    financial advisory services.

The results/outcomes achieved by the power system expansion and rehabilitation component are
mixed, but overall Moderately Satisfactory, as follows:

· The annual electricity generation increased, under the prevailing hydrological conditions, by
    about 19.0 GWh/yr, against an initial target of 95 GWh/yr. The intention of the project to bridge
    the demand/supply gap until Bujagali would come on line has not been achieved, since: (i)
    commissioning of the Bujagali power station was delayed by at least 6 years, (ii) technical
    problems delayed project completion by 3 years, and (iii) the project achieved about 20% of its
    target in additional energy generation. Load shedding increased to more than 400 GWh/yr (about
    50 MWe) by 2007.However, given the total energy load shed as compared to the expected
    additional generation of 95GWh, the biggest contributor to increased load shedding is mainly due
    to the delayed commissioning of Bujagali/additional generation.

· The operational safety, reliability and efficiency of the Nalubaale switchyard were improved and
    outages in the transmission system (132 kV) have been reduced with the total energy lost in
    outages reduced by about 50%, from 8.96 GWh in 2000 to 3.69 GWh in 2007.

· Network distribution losses are still above the industry levels multiple efforts; losses stand at 38%
    against the appraisal target of 18%. The apparent increase in power losses is mainly attributed to
    previous underreporting by the previous public management of the utility and under investments
    during the period 2001 to 2005. The distribution concessionare has since reduced the losses form
    41% in 2005 to the current level of about 35%. Non-collection of bills has also been reduced from
    15% to 7%. At project completion, part of the distribution equipment procured under Power IV



                                                                                                     23

    was still in the process of being installed. Most of the distribution losses are commercial losses,
    including a high number of power thefts. Umeme, ERA and MEMD have formed a joint task
    force to fight these losses in the distribution sector and are implementing a loss reduction action
    plan.

· Power supply to the manufacturing industries in Kampala has been improved and several new
    customers/industries have requested for allocation of plots in industrial park, with several
    industries already operating among which are the Century Bottling Company (Coca Cola) and a
    Mineral Water processing and bottling plant ;

· The number of new connections has significantly increased over the life time of the project. In
    2007 new connections reached a level of 21,000 against a target of 15,000.

Component 2 ­ Environmental Monitoring: The Environmental Monitoring component delivered the
following outputs:

· An environmental officer was hired by UETCL and environmental monitoring equipment was
    provided.

· An Environmental Audit of the Kiira extension was carried out, water quality reports were
    prepared and the project supported the disposal of harvested water hyacinth.

· The Kiira project site has been restored and construction infrastructure has been decommissioned.

The results/outcomes achieved by the environmental monitoring component are Satisfactory, as
follows:

· Environmental Management Plans have been submitted in a timely manner and fully
    implemented;

· The Bank's safeguard policies and Uganda's national environmental requirements have been
    complied with.

· Mitigation measures have been implemented, including water hyacinth disposal at the power
    station. The project has not generated substantial negative environmental and social impacts,
    while minor project impacts have been remedied and/or adequately compensated.

Component 3 ­ Power Sector Development and Reform: The Power Sector reform component
delivered the following outputs:

· Computer equipment, staff training (35) and a Financial Management System(FMS were provided
    to ERA and MEMD in an early stage of the project;

· The Lake Victoria Water Management Study was completed and the Lake Victoria Decision
    Support Tool (LVDST) was implemented at MEMD and UEGCL, to assist the utility operators
    and the Water Management Committee with short-term optimization of power generation, and to
    support medium and long term power planning;

· Studies, consumer satisfaction surveys and workshops relevant to the sub-sector's development
    and reform program were conducted.




                                                                                                    24

· An Institutional Framework for Dam Safety and a draft Dam Safety Act were prepared and an
     Emergency Preparedness Committee formed chaired by the Ministry of Disaster Preparedness;

· Studies regarding tariff adjustment and Tariff Stabilization Fund management were completed,
     but the Tariff Stabilization Fund has not been implementation due to the energy crisis and
     commensurate lack of funding.

· Assessment of the country's geothermal energy potential through geothermal investigations (not
     yet completed at project closure).

The results/outcomes achieved by the power sector development and reform component are
Satisfactory. Against the background of a serious power crisis, the perseverance of GOU on sector
reform is commendable. The project, along with other GoU actions, Bank funded projects, and donor
initiatives, contributed to the following positive developments in the power sector:

· ERA was established as an independent power sector regulator by the end of 2002, and has
     established a strong track record in ensuring the financial viability of the sector;

· The unbundling of UEB into separate entities responsible for generation, transmission and
     distribution and the concessioning of the generation and distribution facilities to the private sector
     was successfully completed by March 2005.

· Tariffs have consistently been increased from US$0.095/KWh in January 2001 to US$18.0/KWh
     in January 2008.

· The problem with GoU payment arrears has been resolved, and the operational and financial
     performance of the power sector has improved with most of the successor companies with a debt
     service of ratio of over 1.0.

· The capacity of MEMD and ERA to manage reform, privatization and development in the power
     sub-sector has been strengthened.

· Water management of Lake Victoria has improved through the establishment of an Intra-GoUal
     Committee for water management. While the over-abstraction of Lake Victoria waters persists, it
     has reduced considerably;

· Progress has been made with the development of alternative energy sources, such as mini-hydro
     power and cogeneration (including the Kakira bagasse plant) as well as the development of a plan
     for the use of geothermal energy resources.

Component 4 ­ Petroleum Sector Development and Reform: The Petroleum Sector development and
reform component delivered the following outputs:

· Petroleum monitoring unit structure was developed and a petroleum quality monitoring system
     designed;

· Petroleum quality monitoring equipment and training has been provided to the newly established
     Petroleum Monitoring Unit;

· A new regulatory framework for the sub-sector was prepared.




                                                                                                        25

· The Petroleum Supply Department is developing the National Petroleum Information System, in
    addition to data collection regarding petroleum products and monitoring price movements in
    relation to world crude oil price movement. The system remains to be fully operationalized.

The results/outcomes achieved by the Petroleum sector development and reform component are rated
satisfactory and are as follows:

· A Technical Petroleum Committee, established in December 2006, has strengthened the capacity
    of MEMD to manage monitor and regulate the downstream petroleum sub-sector;

· The Petroleum Sector Regulatory Framework and Downstream Petroleum Sector Law were
    enacted in October 2003. Petroleum regulations and operational guidelines for the sector have
    been made effective in October 2007;

· To improve the quality, specification and safety of petroleum products supply, MEMD has: (i)
    appointed a Technical Petroleum Committee as required under the act; (ii) completed installation
    of fixed and mobile laboratories and embarked on monitoring of product quality and inspection
    of the facilities including the environment aspects based on the agreed code of operation; (iii)
    commenced on the development of National Petroleum Standards in association with the Uganda
    National Bureau of Standards; and (iv) filled some of the critical staff positions with the
    recruitment                 of              additional              staff                ongoing.




                                                                                                  26

                                                                            Status of agreed outcomes indicators:
                 Indicators                                                                                       Measurement
                                                               Baseline Value                                    Progress To Date                        End-of-Project Target Value
                                                        Number or text                  Date              Number or text              Date                Number or text                Date
PDO Indicator
1. Reduced load shedding.                       20 MW shed at peak time            12/30/2001 110 MW shed at peak time, 03/31/2008 Reduced peak load shedding 03/31/08
                                                                                                  down from 120 MW during                        compared to December 2004
                                                                                                  the last ISR10.                                value of 120MW, provided
                                                                                                                                                 hydrological conditions do
                                                                                                                                                 not worsen11.
2. Annual Power generation                      0GWh (units not yet                12/30/2001 19.0GWh/year                         03/31/08      50GWh for unit 14 and              03/31/08
increased by 50GWh for unit 14 and commissioned)                                                                                                 45GWh for unit 15
45GWh for unit 15 by end of project.
3. Service interruptions reduced.               8.96 GWh                           01/01/2001 3.69GWh                             12/31/2007 Undelivered energy due to              03/31/2008
                                                                                                                                                 outages in the transmission
                                                                                                                                                 system reduced by 30%
                                                                                                                                                 between 2000 to 200412
4. Increased number of people                   10,000 annual connections          12/30/2001 20,000                               12/31/2006 Annual Number of new
connected to the electricity grid.                                                                                                               urban connections increased
                                                                                                                                                 to 15,000 by 2004
5. Regulatory changes effected: (1)             Power and Petroleum sectors                       The Electricity Regulatory      June 2000 Establishment of an                     03/31/2008
establish independent. sec. regulator not regulated                                               Authority Established;                         independent sector
& (2) dam safety framework; (3)                                                                   Dam Safety Framework            December regulator;
downstream petrol. sec. law &                                                                     Completed;                      2006           Establishment of a dam
regulations submitted to Parliament;                                                              Downstream Petroleum            Enacted        safety framework;




10
   The average total generation is about 260MW against a peak demand of 370.0 MW.


11The hydrological conditions have worsened since 2004. The average Lake level in 2004 was 11.35m compared to 2007 average of 11.180 when the units were commissioned. The 2004 forecasted Lake
level at the project inception/design in September 2002 was 11.80m. T


12Total energy lost in outages was 4.8GWh as of 12/31/2004, representing a reduction of about 48% of the 2000 value
                                                                                                                  .




                                                                                                                                                                                              27

& (4) Elec. Law revisions adopted                                           Sector Law enacted          10/20/2003 Downstream Petroleum
                                                                            Regulations prepared and                Sector Law and Regulations
                                                                            under review of the                     submitted to Parliament;
                                                                            Petroleum Technical         03/31/2008 Revisions of the Electricity
                                                                            Committee                               act Adopted
Intermediate outcome indicator(s)
1. Two 40 MW units commissioned Not commissioned                 06/30/2001 Both units were             08/31/2007 Both units commissioned        03/31/2008
by end of Project                                                           commissioned.                           (achieved).
2. Transmission substation installed Not commissioned            01/01/2005 Substation commissioned     03/15/2008 A 120MVA,132/33KV              03/31/2008
at Kampala Industrial and Business                                                                                  commissioned (achieved)
Park by end-of-Project.
3. At least one new industrial plant 0 (industrial park not yet  12/30/2002 Several industries set up.  03/31/2008 At least 4 industries set up13. 03/31/2008
connected to power in the Kampala    established)                                                                   (achieved)
Industrial and Business Park within a
year of installation of substation.
4. Environmental and Social          No monitoring activities    06/30/2001 Water quality monitoring    11/30/2007 Environmental Monitoring       12/01/2007
recommendations satisfactorily                                              (two reports prepared) and              Plan implemented
implemented.                                                                Environment Audit
                                                                            completed. Project site
                                                                            restored and construction
                                                                            infrastructure
                                                                            decommissioned.
5. ERA's (Regulator's) Office is                                            New law was passed on 20    10/20/2003 Achieved.                       10/20/2003
operational by end-2002.                                                    October 2003.
6. A Water Management Plan           No Water Management Plan 12/30/2002 Decision Support Tool has      03/31/2008 A Water Management Plan        06/30/2007
prepared and implemented as          in place                               been Developed and a set of             prepared and implemented.
measured by the percent deviation of                                        10 Technical papers have
water delivery compared to the                                              been prepared. Decision
approved water discharge                                                    Support Tool is used by
arrangement.                                                                Technical Water committee




13Among the industries operating are the Century Bottling Company (Coca Cola) and the Mineral Water processing and Bottling plant




                                                                                                                                                          28

                                                                             in planning for the monthly
                                                                             hydropower generation.14
7. A plan for the development of      No geothermal development 01/01/2005 14 shallow wells drilled in   03/31/08  Surface geothermal           11/30/07
geothermal resources defined.         plan                                   two areas (Kibiro and                  investigations completed in
                                                                             Katwe) and gradient                    two areas and temperature
                                                                             temperatures measured;                 gradient measured in 5-10
                                                                             Preliminary geological                 wells. Geothermal
                                                                             geochemical investigations             development plan prepared
                                                                             completed in 25 areas                  based on the results of the
                                                                             including collection of                geothermal investigations
                                                                             geothermal water samples.              (achieved)
8. Guidelines established and         None                                   Operational guidelines for  03/31/2008 Operational guidelines for  12/31/2002
implemented for petroleum industry                                           the petroleum sector                   petroleum sector established
monitoring with regard to quality,                                           presented to the TPC for               (achieved)
safety, and pricing by end-2005.                                             endorsement.
9. Percent of fuel stations monitored None                                   Petroleum laboratories      03/31/2008 At least 20 Petrol stations 12/31/2007
based on agreed sampling                                                     installed.                             inspected monthly
framework.                                                                   Fuel stations being
                                                                             monitored.




14Since February 2006, the hydropower generation has been following the agreed discharge monthly release.




                                                                                                                                                       29

Annex 3. Financial and Economic Analysis

A.      Financial Analysis

Historical Perspective

1.      Power-IV project was appraised in 2000               15  and the original scope and period of
implementation was expanded over the years. The project was finally closed in March 2008. During
the intervening seven years, the Uganda power sector has undergone radical transformation and it has
gone through a turbulent period of power shortages. The key developments can be summarized as
follows:

· April 2001 ­ The vertically integrated power utility, Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), was
    unbundled and succeeded by three independent corporate entities: Uganda Electricity Generation
    Company Limited (UEGCL), Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UETCL) and
    Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UEDCL).                    UEB's hydro power plant
    (Nalubaale/Kiira), the transmission network and the distribution network were devolved to
    UEGCL, UETCL and UEDCL respectively. UEB's fixed assets were professionally revalued
    upwards by 90% (an increase of US$144 million) and its long-term debt was restructured
    (involving a net write-off of US$213 million) prior to their transfer to successor companies.

· April 2000 ­ An independent electricity regulator, Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) was
    established.

· June 2001 ­ Introduction of fully cost reflective electricity tariffs. Electricity prices were
    increased on average by 50% (after providing rebates following debt restructuring) to give a
    weighted average tariff16 of 140USh/kWh (8.1USc/kWh).

· April 2003 ­ UEGCL's hydro power plant was concessioned to a private operator, Eskom
    (Uganda) Limited for a period of twenty years.

· March 2005 - UEDCL's distribution network was concessioned to a private operator, Umeme
    Limited for a period of twenty (20) years.

· April 2005 ­ Electricity tariffs were increased by an average of 27% to give a weighted average
    tariff of 165USh/kWh (9.1USc/kWh).

· Early 2005 to date ­ Deterioration in hydro supply due to poor hydrological conditions leading to
    the "power crisis". Although the installed capacity of the Nalubaale/Kiira hydro plant was
    expanded from 260MW to 300MW in 2002 (Unit13 at Kiira, funded by Norad and Sida under
    Power-III, and IDA, for cost over-runs under Power-IV), and from 300MW to 380MW (Units 14
    and 15 at Kiira, funded by IDA under Power-IV) in 2007, the effective capacity deteriorated
    significantly starting from early 2005. The effective capacity since 2001 is summarized below:



15The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was submitted in June 2001.

16Throughout this document, references to the average tariff are exclusive of 18% VAT (17.5% until June 30,
2005).




                                                                                                          30

    2001 ­ 180MW                    2005 ­ 194MW                    2008 (to May) ­ 164MW

    2002 ­ 192MW                    2006 ­ 132MW                    2008 (June) ­ 172MW

    2003 ­ 197MW                    2007 ­ 144MW                    2008 (July to December,) ­
                                                                    148MW
    2004 ­ 214MW


· June 2005 to date ­ The shortfall in hydro output led to the introduction to thermal generated
    power in Uganda as follows:


               Plant            Capacity Fuel Type      Commissioning        Retirement
    Aggreko I (Lugogo)             50        AGO        May 2005           October 2008
    Aggreko II (Kiira)             50        AGO        Oct 2006           June 2009
    Aggreko III (Mutundwe)         50        AGO        September 2008 July 2011
    Jacobsen (Namanve)             50         HFO       October 2008       End of plant life

· Early 2005 to date - The high and increasing cost of thermal power has placed heavy financial
    strains on the power sector. Electricity tariffs were raised in June 2006 by an average of 37.5%
    and again in November 2006 by an average of 41%, resulting in the weighted average tariff of
    313USh/kWh (17.2USc/kWh). In addition, the GoU has and continues to provide considerable
    budgetary support (detailed further below).

Financial Performance (2000 to date)

2.       The key annual operational and financial performance indicators of the power sector covering
the period 2000 to 2008, together with forecasts in the PAD, are set out in tables in Attachments 1 and
2. The financial performance of the power sector during the implementation of the Power-IV project
can be separated into three distinct periods:

(iv)     2000 to March 2001: Prior to the unbundling of UEB.

(v)      April 2001 to February 2005: Unbundled power sector and prior to the concessioning of
         generation and distribution businesses to the private sector.

(vi)     March 2005 to date: Since the commencement of private operators in generation and
         distribution and the onset of the power crisis.

3.       2000 to March 2001: Prior to the unbundling of UEB. The GoU had set in motion various
measures in preparation for the unbundling of UEB and other power sector reforms. Following the
appointment of new management in April 1999, the operational and financial performance of UEB
had improved considerably in 2000. UEB's cash collection increased by about 40%, administration
and overheads were reduced, 1,100 staff were retrenched between 1998 and 2000, and UEB increased
its debt service payments to the GoU from USh1.5 billion to USh7.4 billion in 2000. In spite of these
improvements, however, UEB faced considerable challenges, such as: (i) reducing high network
losses (UEB failed to collect approximately 40% of the energy sent out), (ii) full cost recovery, and




                                                                                                    31

(iii) meeting the significant investment needs for the rehabilitation and expansion of the network,
including generation capacity additions and increasing customer access to electricity.

4.        April 2001 to February 2005: Unbundled power sector and prior to the concessioning of
generation and distribution businesses to the private sector.              The separation of generation,
transmission and distribution enabled the three new entities (UEGCL, UETCL and UEDCL) to focus
more clearly on their respective businesses. The appointment of an independent electricity regulator
(ERA), the financial restructuring of UEB debt prior to its vesting to successor companies, and the
introduction of cost reflective tariffs for: (i) generation; (ii) bulk supply to distribution (generation
plus transmission); and (iii) end-use customers set the stage for transparency and a financially viable
power sector.

5.        There were a number of difficulties that arose in the first few years of operations of the new
companies:

· The ERA approved new electricity tariffs effective June 1, 2001 that amounted to an average
     increase of 69% in end-use customer tariffs. These tariffs were calculated on the basis of UEB
     debt prior to its restructuring. The sharp increase in tariffs led to an outcry from electricity
     customers and the GoU reacted by providing debt service relief starting December 2001 until June
     2002 when the ERA announced lower tariffs based on the restructured debt and lower network
     losses. The net effective increase since the unbundling in end-use customer tariffs was around
     50%. The two months' delay (April 1 to June 1) in setting new tariffs meant that the power
     utilities were unable to meet in full their: (a) power bills to each other in the first few months of
     operations; and (b) debt service obligations to the GoU. These unsettled cross-debts and debt
     service obligations are still outstanding and need to be written-off.

· The tariff formulae of the ERA in the first few years made allowances for depreciation of fixed
     assets. The depreciation element of the tariff was meant to provide funding for repayment of
     long-term loans, investments from own resources "counterpart funding", and eventual
     replacement of assets.      This particular approach did not necessarily match the underlying
     requirements of the individual companies with respect to loan repayments and investment funding
     needs from own resources. In the case of UEGCL, for example, the imbalance in its financial
     structure of high asset base and low debt vested from UEB relative to asset values gave rise to a
     sizable annual depreciation charge and comparatively smaller debt service burden, thus generating
     large cash surpluses. In UEDCL's case, the problem was reversed in that it has high long-term
     debt relative to its asset base. As a consequence, the depreciation charge was inadequate to meet
     principal loan repayments and investment requirements which need to be funded from internal
     resources. The ERA later changed its tariff methodology to ensure that tariffs were set to meet the
     underlying revenue requirements of each utility.

· In the case of UEDCL, the ERA's allowance for bad debts in its retail tariff setting did not
     correspond with underlying reality. In 2003, the bad allowance in the tariff was set at 13%
     against actual non-collection rate of 20%, resulting in a cash flow deficit. On the other hand,
     UEDCL was obliged to pay in full 17% VAT on 100% of billed revenue, including uncollected
     billing. Consequently, UEDCL was unable to meet all of its power purchase obligations to
     UETCL. This anomaly was corrected by the ERA when Umeme took over distribution operations
     from UEDCL in March 2005.




                                                                                                       32

6.       The operational and financial performance of the power sector on the whole improved during
the first few years of operations of the new power companies from April 2001 to February 2005. The
individual company performance is summarized below:

· UEGCL's financial performance was strong. Since 2002, the company met its debt service
    obligations in full. As at end December 2004, UEGCL had cash surplus of Shs7.7 billion (US$4.4
    million) accumulated on account of depreciation collected through its tariff in earlier years.
    UEGCL's tariff made provisions in 2002 and 2003 for the accumulation of USh14.0 billion
    (US$7.2 million) in a bulk supply tariff stabilization fund, held for the benefit of the power sector,
    and USh4.7 billion (US$2.4 million) in an escrow account for the benefit of the concessionaire,
    Eskom Uganda Limited. In 2004/05, with the approval of the ERA, the funds in the tariff
    stabilization fund were provided to UEDCL towards investments in rural electrification. The
    company met its debt service ratio covenant of 1.5 times (original) until 2003 and 1.0 times (as
    amended) from 2004 onwards under the Power-IV project.

· UETCL's financial position was very strong, principally due to allowances in the bulk supply
    tariff (BST)17 of earlier years for depreciation and returns on equity that were meant for capital
    investments. However, the company had made limited investments, giving rise to cash surpluses.
    In 2005, in line with the World Bank's recommendations, the ERA adopted a revised tariff
    methodology which aimed to meet the company's cash flow requirements, including investments
    to be funded from internal resources (the revised tariff methodology was also applied to UEGCL
    and UEDCL). UETCL's tariff made provisions in 2003 to 2005 for the accumulation of USh50.0
    billion (US$27.1 million) in a bulk supply tariff stabilization fund, held for the benefit of the
    power sector, and USh10.0 billion (US$5.4 million) in an escrow account for the Bujagali
    liquidity fund. These accumulated funds, together with UETCL's accumulated cash surpluses,
    were later utilized towards meeting the high thermal power costs starting in late June 2005.

· UEDCL's recorded average distribution losses from April 2001 to December 2004 were 33.5%, a
    rate similar to that of UEB from 1998 to 2000.                 Billing collection rate during the forty-five
    months to December 2004 averaged 77%, compared to UEB's collection rate of 83% in 2000.
    The decline in the collection rate was partly due to the high increases in electricity tariffs
    following the sector reforms in 2001. Customer accounts receivable of UEDCL (and UEB before
    that), as reported in its audited financial statements, were grossly overstated in terms of their
    recoverability.     Bad debts were never written-off and provisions for doubtful debts were
    inadequate. Accounts receivable, net of provisions, as at December 31, 2003 represented around
    200 days' annual billing. As a result of past under-provisions and also because of the way the
    Umeme's concession transaction was structured, a large write-off (impairment) of USh77 billion
    (US$43 million) was recorded in UEDCL's 2004 financial statements. The write-off did not
    involve receivables from the GoU. Under the terms of the concession agreement, Umeme was
    required to pay to UEDCL USh4.9 billion (representing February 2005 bill of UETCL to UEDCL
    for bulk supply in the last month of UEDCL operations), in settlement of debtors' book that
    Umeme took over from UEDCL. At the end of the twenty year concession, Umeme is obliged to



17The BST is the sum of generation and transmission costs, which the distribution co (Umeme) needs to
recover through its retail tariff, and which is the price at which Umeme (the private distribution company)
purchases bulk power from UETCL.




                                                                                                             33

    hand-over its debtors' book to UEDCL at no cost to UEDCL. A large part of UEDCL's debt
    service obligations was applied towards: (a) tariff rebates to end-use customers (USh20.5 billion
    or US$10.5 million); (b) debt swap against outstanding GoU electricity bills in the books of
    UEDCL (USh10.1 billion or US$5.5 million); and (c) rural schemes constructed on behalf of the
    GoU (USh5.8 billion or US$3.3 million).

· The number of "live" customers according to UEDCL records was 266,004 as at February 28,
    2005. The number of new connections (i.e. customers energized for the first time) during the
    fourteen months to February 28, 2005 was 15,190 (average monthly connection rate of 1,085).

7.       March 2005 to date: Since the commencement of private operators in generation and
distribution and the onset of the power crisis. Effective April 3, 2003, UEGCL's hydro power
operations at Nalubaale/Kiira were handed over to Eskom (Uganda) Limited. On March 1st, 2005
UEDCL's operation of the distribution network across the country were handed over to Umeme
Limited. Since then, the primary role of UEGCL and UEDCL is to provide oversight of their
respective concessionaire's activities. UEGCL and UEDCL derive their revenues from lease charges
to Eskom (Uganda) and Umeme respectively. The lease charges are approved by the ERA and
comprise of operating expenses, debt service requirements, and investments that need to be funded
from internal resources.

8.       UEGCL's performance has been satisfactory since April 1, 2003. The company has met its
debt service obligations in full; annual debt service payments since 2006 have amounted to US$8.4
million. The Bank's financial covenant of 1.0 times debt service cover has been met in 2005 to 2007
and was also expected to be met in 2008.

9.       UEDCL's performance has been satisfactory since March 1, 2005. The company has made
debts service payments of US$22.7 million from 2002 to 2007. Debt service arrears to December 31,
2007 amount to USh24.8 billion (US$15 million). However, there are agreed and pending swaps
totalling USh26.3 billion (US$14.6 million); of these, USh8.2 billion relate to unpaid GoU electricity
bills, and USh10.7 billion for rural schemes. In addition, Umeme has off-set unpaid GoU electricity
bills amounting to USh17.1 billion (US$9.6 million) against UEDCL lease payments from March 1,
2005 to December 31, 2007. The offsets by UMEME are allowed by the Concession Agreements
between UEDCL and UMEME. However the debt swaps between UEDCL and GoU have yet to be
formally accepted by the GoU.

10.      UEDCL met the Bank's financial covenant of 1.0 times debt service cover in 2006 and 2007,
and it was also expected to be met in 2008. However, the debt service cover in 2005 was only 0.3
times, largely due to staff retrenchment payments following the transfer of operations to Umeme.

UETCL, the single buyer and wheeler of power, has felt the financial squeeze since the power crisis
began in early 2005. On the one hand, it has to pay the fixed costs of Eskom, the private operator of
Nalubaale/Kiira hydro plant and for thermal power costs. On the other hand, Umeme, the private
operator of the distribution network, is protected in recovering its underlying costs to a large extent.
GoU support has helped to close UETCL's financial gap. UETCL's liquidity has improved in 2008.
The GoU has also provided additional financial relief to UETCL in the form of debt service relief.
Annual debt service due to the GoU (about USh4.5 billion or US$2.6 million) is set aside to pay for
UETCL's resettlement programs (RAP) in connection with the construction of transmission lines.
The financial situation of UETCL is now on a firmer footing than it was since the power crisis started
in early 2005 and into the first half of 2007. Improvements in hydro supply since November 2007 and



                                                                                                    34

Gou budgetary support each month of USh7.7 billion (US$4.5 million) since July 2007 has eased the
pressures on power sector finances. In total, the GoU provided budgetary support of USh75.7 billion
(US$43.7 million) in 2007 and USh150.3 billion (US$81.8 million) in 2006. GoU support has helped
to pay for 100MW of thermal capacity.

11.      UETCL had a negative cash flow in 2005 and thus failed to meet the cash flow covenant (as
defined in the Project Agreement: i.e. meet debt service, working capital requirements and
investments from own resources, from net revenues) because the bulk supply tariff was not
sufficiently raised to meet UETCL's requirements. UETCL had met part of its power purchase costs
from past accumulated surpluses (such payments affect current year earnings as the charge goes to the
income statement & cash flows). UETCL's performance in 2005 was negatively affected by: (a)
increasing reliance on thermal power and high fuel prices with inadequate rise in its bulk supply tariff;
and (b) support provided by the company from its accumulated surpluses towards the cost of fuel.
Since 2006, UETCL has met all of its revenue requirements following increases in bulk supply tariffs
and higher GoU subsidies towards thermal power costs. Similarly, UETCL will be financially
supported by GoU subsidy and IDA support for thermal power supply from Aggreko's 50MW leased
plant at Mutundwe, which was commissioned in September 2008).

12.      Umeme's financial performance is satisfactory. The net after tax income as a percentage of
revenue was 3.2% in 2007 and 4.9% in 2006, and the return (operating income after tax) on its own
invested capital was 7.0% in 2007 and 14.1% in 2006. The current or liquidity ratio was healthy at
1.5 times in 2007 and 1.4 times in 2006. In 2007, Umeme's shareholders injected USh24.8 billion
(US$14.3 million) in equity and loans (net of repayments). Cash inflows from operations (after
changes in working capital), amounted to USh2.2 billion (US$2.0 million) in 2007 and USh40.4
billion (US$23.4 million) in 2006. Umeme's investments in the network amounted to USh34.9 billion
(US$20.1 million) in 2007 and USh12.6 billion (US$6.8 million) in 2006.              In addition, IDA
contributed US$11.8 million towards the cost of poles, transformers and customer meters, funded
under the Power IV project.

Retail Electricity Tariffs

13.      Retail electricity tariffs were last adjusted on November 1, 2006 (+ 41%) and on June 1, 2006
(+37.5%) before then. The cumulative average increase in the weighted average retail tariff amounted
to 93%.     The present weighted average retail tariff, excluding 18% VAT, is 313USh/kWh
(18.4USc/kWh). Even at these high levels, the present electricity tariffs are not fully cost reflective.
The fully cost reflective average retail tariff for 2007 is estimated at 382USh/kWh (22.1USc/kWh),
and the forecast for the 2008 is 450USh/kWh (25.8USc/kWh). The needed high tariff levels are
primarily driven by: (a) high fuel prices and fuel transport costs across land from Mombasa; and (b)
high distribution losses of about 35% (see below for discussion). The shortfalls in the revenue
requirements of the power sector are met by the GoU.

14.      The development of Uganda weighted average electricity revenue and make-up of revenue
requirements from 2004 to 2008 is illustrated in the chart overleaf.




                                                                                                     35

                      Uganda Av. Electricity Revenue & Make-up of Revenue Requirements
                                                             2004-2008


                 400.0

                 350.0

                 300.0

                 250.0
      onsilli
             m$SU200.0

                 150.0

                 100.0

                  50.0

                   0.0

                            2004                  2005          2006           2007               2008
                        UEDCL costs                                   Umeme costs
                        UETCL costs (net of export revenue)           Fuel
                        Power purchase, excl fuel & Eskom             UEGCL lease payments
                        Eskom costs                                   Uganda electricity revenue




Distribution Losses

15.               The very high levels of distribution losses present a big challenge for Umeme and for the
GoU. Overall distribution losses at present are estimated at 35%, of which 12% to 15% can be
attributed to technical losses in the network. This means that 20% to 23% of the losses are non-
technical (basically theft through illegal connections). On the basis of present retail electricity tariffs,
US$3.2 million is lost annually for every 1% of distribution loss, or US$64 million annually with 20%
losses. The urgency of tackling these losses has become much more pronounced now that thermal
power accounts for 40-45% of total electricity output.

Customer Billing Collections

16.               Customer billing collections have improved over the past few years, as indicated below:

                  2005 (since March) ­ 86%
                  2006 ­ 85%
                  2007 ­ 92.5%
                  2008 (January to November) ­ 93.6%

Government Electricity Bills

17.               The GoU's electricity bills represent around 9% of Umeme's total Uganda billing, and it paid
approximately 70% of its electricity bills in 2007. The collection performance has improved in the
last year. The outstanding balance as at end December 2007 was USh8.7 billion, after set-offs. The
largest unpaid bills related to the Ministry of Defence, Police, Prisons and Mulango Hospital. Umeme
has a right under the concession to set-off overdue bills of the GoU against its lease payments due to


                                                                                                           36

UEDCL. As of December 31, 2007, the company had deducted USh 17.1 billion against UEDCL's
lease payment. The amounts withheld by Umeme are in turn deducted by UEDCL from its debt
service obligations to GoU. This means that the Treasury ends up paying for the unpaid bills of GoU
agencies. However, GoU entities started to stay current in early 2008 and continue to be current since
then.

.Power-IV Financial Covenants

18.      The following table compares the financial covenants set under Power-IV against actuals
achieved by UEGCL, UETCL and Umeme.


                      2002      2003     2004       2005        2006     2007        2008
                                                                                  Forecast
Covenant
UEGCL (debt             1.5      1.5        1.0       1.0         1.0      1.0         1.0
service ratio)
UEDCL (debt                                 1.0       1.0         1.0      1.0         1.0
service ratio)
UETCL                                    Net revenues = debt service & working capital
                                         requirements, dividends and investments to be
                                                  funded out of own revenues
Actual
UEGCL (debt             8.1      2.8        1.1       1.2         1.0      1.0         1.0
service ratio)
UEDCL (debt                                 1.9       0.3         1.0      1.4         1.0
service ratio)
UETCL                                      Met        Not        Met      Met Expected
                                                      met                        to be met

UEGCL met its financial covenant each year during project implementation; the financial covenant of
debt service ratio was revised downwards to 1.0 times as from 2004 to reflect the ERA's revised tariff
formula for UEGCL. UEDCL met its financial covenant in all years except in 2005, largely due to
staff retrenchment payments following the transfer of operations to Umeme. UETCL was financially
solvent until the power crisis, which began in early 2005. Since then it has met its financial
requirements through increases in its bulk supply tariffs in 2006 and GoU subsidies (refer to
paragraph 12 above).




                                                                                                   37

Table 3: Selected Power Sector Performance Indicators




                                                         38

                 Table 4     Comparison of power sector performance in PAD and during implementation 2001-2008




                             PAD    Actual   PAD    Actual    PAD    Actual  PAD    Actual   PAD     Actual  PAD    Actual Actual Forecast


     Key Operational &
    Financial Indicators     2001   2001     2002    2002     2003    2003   2004     2004   2005     2005   2006   2006    2007   2008



Total units sent out (GWh)   1,591  1,595   1,679    1,719    1,831  1,769   1,926   1,893  2,127    1,888   2,989  1,609   1,894  2,152

Units sent out to Uganda
(GWh)                        1,463  1,451   1,553    1,443    1,705  1,536   1,800   1,688  1,939    1,821   2,308  1,554   1,826  2,082


Export sales (GWh)            121    136     121     265      121      217   121      196    180       64    653     53      65     67

Energy billed in Uganda
(GWh)                        1,005   884    1,091    876      1,226  1,036   1,324   1,031  1,444    1,076   1,672  990     1,138  1,350

System losses
(% of sent out)               29%   36%      28%     34%      26%     29%    25%      35%    24%      40%    22%    35%     36%    34%


Total Elec. Revenue
(US$ mn)                      70.4  76.5     86.9    94.5     99.0    92.4   120.8    91.9  143.8     98.3   220.5  120.9   214.6  253.1



Domestic Elec. Revenue
(US$ mn)                      62.9  66.2     79.4    78.8     91.4    79.4   113.3    80.2  132.9     94.2   175.8  116.1   205.9  243.0



Ave. domestic revenue
(USc/kWh)                     6.3    7.5     7.3      9.0      7.5     7.7    8.6      7.8   9.2      8.8    10.5   11.7    18.1   18.0



Ave. No. of customers ('000)  189    190     204     213      219      235   234      254    249      278    264    295     300    309

Ave. No. of employees        1,777  1,881   1,792    1,849    1,807  1,801   1,815   1,788  1,837    1,745   1,852  1,542   1,430  1,468

Customers per employee        106    101     114     115      121      130   128      142    136      159    143    191     210    211

Days receivable
(UEDCL/Umeme) ­ domestic      80     140      60     121       45      198    45       81     45       38     45     40      39     45


Collection Rate (%)           87%   69%      95%     75%      95%     73%    95%      81%    95%      86%    95%    85%     93%    92%

Return on revalued fixed
assets                       4.5%   2.5%     5.8%    4.5%     6.8%    4.8%   8.8%    3.3%    9.7%    -3.2%   7.7%   2.8%    3.2%   4.5%

Current ratio                 1.7    3.1     1.3      2.3      1.2     2.5    1.2      2.2   1.2      1.5     1.3    1.4     1.4    1.8

Debt/equity ratio             48%   34%      49%     35%      48%     38%    45%      41%    41%      45%    38%    41%     42%    40%


                                                                                                                                              39

                               PAD       Actual      PAD       Actual     PAD    Actual   PAD      Actual       PAD    Actual      PAD    Actual     Actual    Forecast


     Key Operational &
    Financial Indicators       2001       2001       2002       2002      2003   2003     2004       2004       2005    2005       2006    2006       2007      2008


Debt service ratio              1.0        3.0       1.3         2.6       1.5    2.5      1.6        2.0       1.6      0.3        1.4     1.4        1.8       2.2

Self financing ratio           11%       -60%%       22%        127%      40%    67%       50%       87%        66%     -55%       32%     103%       27%       15%

Exchange rate                  1,873      1,760     1,918       1,780     1,965  1,961    2,013     1,813      2,062    1,780      2,102   1,837      1,732     1,742
          Notes:
          (1) The projections in the PAD went up to 2006.
          (2) Energy sent out and billed are inclusive of off-grid supply.
          (3) The PAD assumed that: (a) 50 MW of Bujagali would in operation in July 2005 and an additional 100 MW in 2006; (b) 20 MW of Kakiira bagasse plant would be available in
          2004; and (c) distribution concession in 2002.




                                                                                                                                                                                    40

B.      Economic Analysis

Economic Analysis for the Installation of Units 14 and 15 at Kiira (Sub-component A1(a))

1.      Background to the Owen Falls Extension project. In the early 1990's the Uganda Electricity
Board (UEB) decided to proceed with a large-scale extension to the Owen Falls Hydro Project located
on the Victoria Nile just downstream of the Lake Victoria outlet. The project was originally built in
the 1950's and had since supplied most of Uganda's electricity. The original plant had been
progressively expanded to a full capacity of 10x18MW units. At maximum capacity, the flow
discharged through the plant was about 1,100m3/s. The Owen Falls Extension project (OFE) features a
second powerhouse (named Kiira; the original powerhouse is named Nalubaale) and an adjacent
spillway. The rationale for the extension was two-fold: (i) to provide for a necessary spillway for the
Owen Falls to avoid topping of the dam (and its highway, which is the only transport link to Kenya in
this part of Uganda) during times of high hydrology; and (ii) to provide for additional power and
energy to meet the growing demand in Uganda.

2.      Numerous preparatory studies were carried out on the feasibility of the extension of the
existing Owen Falls Plant. In January 1991, the conclusion of the review by independent hydrological
experts of the hydrological risk assessment determined that the spillway capacity of Owen Falls Dam
was inadequate. Thus it was agreed that additional spillway capacity would need to be accommodated
in order to protect the Owen Fall Dam against overtopping and possible failure in a major flood event
(one in 1000 years). With the increased size of the canal and thus water flows, the configuration of the
power house at Kiira was expanded to accommodate additional generating sets from the original
concept of 3x34MW to 5x40MW to provide greater peaking capacity and flexibility for operation and
maintenance. Changes in the original concept of the extension were technical in nature and motivated
by safety concerns and opportunities to enhance power supply. The feasibility study in 1991 indicated
also that installation of three units initially would be economic. The three units were installed
progressively: units 11 and 12 were commissioned in 2001, and unit 13 in May 2002.

Economic justification of Kiira Units 14 and 15.

3.      Assumptions regarding the Additional Energy from Kiira Units 14& 15: The Fourth Power
Project undertook the installation of Unit 14 based on the recommendation of the 2001 feasibility
study. The cost-effectiveness analysis showed the installation of Unit 14 at Kiira as least cost for
meeting the demand in the interim period before the next major hydropower plant (Bujagali) came
online with an EIRR of over 22%, whereas Unit 15 had an EIRR of 18% (see table 1). Given the high
sensitivity of these results to water levels and assumptions on costs, the GoU of Uganda decided to
proceed with the procurement of both Units 14 and 15, while retaining for as long as possible in the
procurement process the option to exclude Unit 15. The intent was to re-assess the viability of the unit
when more accurate evaluation parameters were available, including on bid prices and the timing of
the Bujagali hydropower plant. This approach was included in the design of the Fourth Power Project
and required UEB, the single power utility at the time, to provide "satisfactory evidence of the unit's
(Unit 15) economic viability". An assessment of Unit 15 in 2002 produced an EIRR of 36%, which
was sufficient to demonstrate its viability18. On this basis, UEB proceeded with procurement of Unit
15.



18The 2002 economic analysis acknowledged that low hydrology would reduce the EIRR for both units.


Draft ICR ­ Power IV; May 6, 2009                                                                 41 

4.       Between the 2001 and the 2002 assessments, the single most important factor that influenced
the conclusion on Unit 15 was the lower than expected capital costs, as reflected in the received bid
prices. The original incremental cost estimate for Unit 15 was US$20 million. The actual incremental
cost for Unit 15 was US$8.9 million. The re-evaluation of Unit 15 in 2002, after receipt of bids,
established that for combined flows (at 80/20% probability respectively) Unit 15 was viable with 90%
probability and a mean expected EIRR of 39%. The 90% probability referred to the presumption at the
time that firm flow and energy should be available with a 90% level of reliability. Put differently,
there is a 1 in 10 year risk that flow and energy would be less than the firm target.

5.       In 2009, certain elements have turned out to be different from what they have been assumed
to be in both the 2001 and the 2002 analyses as follows:

         · The start date of the Unit 14 and 15 was delayed. They became fully operation only in
              2007 as compared with the earlier projection of 2003;

         · The start date of Bujagali hydropower plant is now expected for 2011, as opposed to the
              original assumption of 2005. Costs of Bujagali hydropower plant are now estimated at
              US$860 million, as opposed to a Power IV appraisal estimate of US$ 500 million;

         · The start date of the next hydropower plant will consequently also not be before Bujagali
              is scheduled to come online, and is now assumed for no earlier than 2013;

         · The assumed average oil price at appraisal was US$20 per bbl of crude oil. This analysis
              uses the oil price in early January 2009 of US$45 per bbl. However, some sensitivity
              analysis has been conducted as the table below indicates.

7.       To assess the economic viability of Units 14 and 15 with all data available in early 2009,
these data were inserted into the economic model which was used during the PAD analysis, as is the
standard practice for ICR reviews of project performance. The model uses a 30 year time horizon,
and draws from the full ~100 year hydrology record. Table 1 below shows the economic results for
units 14 and 15 under the ICR review compared with the economic results from 2001 and 2002.

Table 1: Economics of Kiira Units 14 and 15

                                  NPV (US$ million)                 EIRR (%)

                             Unit 14    Unit 15    Both      Unit     Unit 15    Both
                                                   Units      14                 Units
 WB Project
 Appraisal Document            21.1       10.9      32.1      22         18        20
 (2001)
 Economic Review
 (2002)                        23.7        8.7      32.5      39         36        38

 Update ICR 2009               39.1       23.5      62.7      54         37        46



8.       Table 1 illustrates that the changes in framework conditions have positively affected the
viability of Units 14 and 15 at Kiira Hydropower Plant, despite the late commissioning of the units in
2007. The benefit of Kiira is mainly increased compared to the original estimates from 2001 and 2002
due to the further delay in the construction of Bujagali hydropower plant, which makes the availability
of Units 14 and 15 even more valuable than previously estimated. While in the original estimate there
was only a difference of two years between commissioning of Kiira Units 14 and 15, now there are
four years of difference.


Draft ICR ­ Power IV; May 6, 2009                                                              42 

Draft ICR ­ Power IV; May 6, 2009    43 


Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Paul Baringanire          Power Engineer                   AFTEG Task Team Leader

Mourad Belguedj           Adviser                          COCPO    Petroleum
                                                                    Specialist
Howard Bariira Centenary  Procurement Spec.                 AFTPC Procurement
Denis Creamer             Consultant                       AFTEG Economist
Gulam H. Dhalla           Consultant                       AFTEG Financial Analyst
Johan Grijsen             Consultant                       AFTEG Hydrologist
Reynold Duncan            Lead Energy Specialist           AFTEG Engineer
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt     Environmental Spec.              AFTEN Environment
Agnes Kaye                Program Assistant                AFMUG Assistant
Fanny Kathinka Missfeldt-
Ringius                   Sr Energy Econ.                  AFTEG Economist

Richard Olowo             Sr Procurement Spec.              AFTPC Procurement
Janine A. Speakman        Operations Analyst               AFTEG Operations Support
Anta Loum Lo              Language Program Assistant       AFTEG Program Assistant

Patrick Piker Umah Tete   Sr Financial Management Spec.    AFTFM    Financial
                                                                    Management



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93                                                                  1.40
  FY94                                                                  5.56
  FY95                                                                 10.91
  FY96                                                                 14.96
  FY97                                                                 52.98
  FY98                                                                137.24
  FY99                                                                132.60
  FY00                                      32                        145.49
  FY01                                      36                          3.37
  FY02                                        1                         0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00



                                                                                    45

 FY04                                 0.00
 FY05                                 0.00
 FY06                                 0.00
 FY07                                 0.00
                   Total:     69    504.51
Supervision/ICR
 FY93                                 0.00
 FY94                                 0.00
 FY95                                 0.00
 FY96                                 0.00
 FY97                                 0.00
 FY98                                 0.00
 FY99                                 9.69
 FY00                                 0.53
 FY01                                80.79
 FY02                         20    130.21
 FY03                         28     98.53
 FY04                         18    174.19
 FY05                         40    162.23
 FY06                         45    100.68
 FY07                         27     53.84
 FY08                          9      0.00
                   Total:    187    810.69




                                             46

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Two annual consumer satisfaction surveys were conducted in 2003 and 2004. The surveys were
aimed at obtaining views of the consumers on the quality and quantity of the electricity services
as a result of improvements brought about by the reforms in the electricity sector and the
additional energy generation capacity (Kiira units 11, 12 and 13). The surveys indicated that a
majority of consumers in the main cities were satisfied with the improvements in the quality and
quantity of electricity supply. However, those living outside of those areas were much less
satisfied. The survey also revealed that consumers would like to receive more accurate bills from
UEDCL.

Subsequent annual surveys were not carried out in consideration of the onset of increased load
shedding as from 2005. However, under the ongoing Power Sector Development operation, a
Poverty and Social Impact Assessment will be carried out and it has been proposed that this study
would also cover the consumers' ability and willingness to pay for electricity.




                                                                                               47

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Summary of Borrower's ICR

1.       Assessment of Project Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operational
Experience

The main objectives of the project were (i) improve power supply to meet demand by supporting
critically needed investments in the sub-sector; and (ii) strengthen Borrower capacity to manage
reform, privatisation and development in the power and petroleum sub-sectors.

The Kiira Power Station (Units 14 and 15) was inflicted by hydrological conditions which were
way beyond the control of the project. The entire East African region was affected by a protracted
drought situation which steadily increased in magnitude from 2003 to 2006. Units 14 and 15, the
main infrastructure investments of the project could not therefore be used to increase power
supply in the short term. These units should, however, be looked at as major contributors to
power supply in the medium to long term as the lake level improves. These units bring to five, the
total installed capacity of Kiira, which is a new and robust power station which will ultimately
replace the ageing Nalubaale Power Station.

Still on the power supply side, the project was able to support the packaging of the Bujagali
Project, which is a medium term solution to the power needs of the country. This was a major
achievement. The project also supported geothermal exploration activities which will lead to
exploitation of this renewable resource in the medium to long term.

There were also investments in the power transmission and distribution infrastructure which will
contribute to the reliability of power supply.

Regarding the second objective, the project registered significant achievements in the area of
capacity building in both the power and petroleum sub sectors. Attainment of petroleum
laboratory equipment will enhance GoU's capacity to monitor the quality of petroleum products
sold on the market. Ministry, ERA and utility companies' staff acquired knowledge and skills
through the training programmes which will enhance their ability to manage the two sectors.

The design of the project ensured that the various sub components fed into the overall objectives.
As the project progressed, and when it was realised that there were considerable cost savings
especially on Unit 15, reallocations were made to finance new subcomponents which were in line
with the project objectives.

During implementation, both the World Bank project team and the Borrower project team
worked in harmony to ensure accomplishment of the project.

2    Assessment of Project Outcomes Against the Agreed Objectives

This matter has been discussed in part in the paragraphs above. It is seldom that plans are realised
100%. The major setback for the project was the hydrological problem mentioned above for
which the project had no control. Overall the project satisfactorily attained expected outcomes.




                                                                                                 48

3   Evaluation of the Government and Bank Performance During Project Preparation and
    Implementation

Through the numerous supervision missions of the Bank, GoU and the Bank were able to identify
and resolve matters which would impact on the attainment of the project outcomes. Both parties
would agree on areas of concern and what remedial measures to take. Our view is that the
performance       of      the      Bank         and       GoU         were        satisfactory.




                                                                                           49

Annex 7. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

A. NORAD ­NORAD commissioned a study in 200619to review the Norwegian support to the
energy sector over the period 1997-2005. The review covers Norwegian support to 25 projects
guided by 18 bilateral agreements with a total Norwegian contribution of NOK 336 million. The
major share of the financial contribution has been for investments in hydro power generation and
substation upgrading, refurbishment and extension. The support for the investment projects has to
a large extent been provided in co-financing with World Bank credits for the Third and Fourth
Power Projects (Power III and IV). In addition, approximately 10% of the financial contribution
has been provided as institutional support in relation to the regulatory reform of the sector
including an institutional cooperation arrangement with the Norwegian Water Resources and
Energy Directorate (NVE). The scope of the review was to assess relevance, impact,
effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability of the projects being supported as well as the
administration of the support from an aid management perspective.

The study findings concluded that the Norwegian support has made important contributions to
sector development despite the current power crisis. However, the rationale, efficiency and
quality of some investments may be questioned. The investment projects have increased potential
generation capacity and reduced technical losses. Questions can however be raised to the limited
consideration and risk assessment of sustainable water discharge levels (including the adverse
environmental impact) as well as the procurement process by limiting choice of suppliers. The
institutional support has contributed to key activities in the transformation process, in particular in
establishing a new legal and regulatory framework including tools for setting tariffs, but the
outcome of numerous inputs and the substantial resources put into short-term visits for
consultation and coordination may be questioned.

B. Nordic Development Fund (NDF): The NDF-credit of EUR 12,700,000, representing
approximately 12% of the total project costs, has been utilized to finance two sub-components
under Component 1: Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation, namely: (i) the sub-component
1b ­ SCADA and Telecommunications System; and (ii) the sub-component 1c - Transmission
System Rehabilitation.          This first sub-component has focused on upgrading of UETCL's
supervisory control and data acquisition(SCADA) and telecommunications systems through the
acquisition and installation of hardware and software and installation of remote and terminal units
and data collecting equipment as well as extension of telecommunications systems; the second
sub-component has supported the extension and refurbishment of the Lira, Lugazi, Masaka West
and Mbarara North sub-stations in order to ensure operational safety, reliability and efficiency of
these transmission systems. UETCL has had the primary responsibility for implementation of the
NDF-components. In general, there has been a strong interest of Nordic companies in this project,
but also in the energy sector in Uganda as a whole. During the project implementation of more
than 5 years, two large contracts with Nordic companies have been in place. The deliveries for the
SCADA and Telecommunication System were done by ABB Power Technologies AB from
Sweden, while the extension and refurbishment of the four sub-stations in Lira, Lugazi, Masaka
West and Mbarara North were carried out by ABB Power Systems from Finland. Thus,
significant Nordic equipments and technical expertise have been applied throughout the project
implementation and the activities under the two contracts were implemented with relatively minor
difficulties. In overall terms, it is noted that complications in handling the procurement of the two



19Nordic Consulting Group (May 200), Review of the Norwegian Support to the Energy Sector (1997-2005)- Final Report




                                                                                                                     50

large contracts have caused delays in the project implementation, however the monitoring and
management of the Nordic contractors was carried out in a very satisfactory manner by UETCL.
In sum, the objectives of the NDF-sub-components were achieved and the project satisfactorily
reached the expected outcomes. As assessed by IDA, the overall results/outcomes achieved by the
power system expansion and rehabilitation component, including the two NDF-sub-components,
are mixed, but overall rated as moderately satisfactory.




                                                                                            51

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

i. Acres International Limited (May 1990), Proposed Extension to Owen falls

    Generating Station-Draft Feasibility Study Report

ii. Dennis Creamer (September 2002), Study of the Cost effectiveness and economic

     Viability of Unit 15, Final Report

iii. Kennedy and Donkin Power systems Ltd (September 1990), Owen Falls Extension,

     Review of the Feasibility Study by Acres International Dated May 1990

iv. Lahmeyer International (November 2007), Fourth Power project-Project Completion

     Report

v. Ministry of Energy and Minerals Development (April 2008), Project Completion

     Report for the MEMD Components

vi. Ministry of energy and Minerals Development, Progress Reports for MEMD

     Components 2002-2008

vii. Nordic Consulting Group (May 200), Review of the Norwegian Support to the

     Energy Sector (1997-2005)- Final Report

viii.   Norplan (U) Ltd (December 2003), Feasibility Study for the Economic and

     Financial Analysis for the rehabilitation and Extension of Mbarara North, Masaka

     West,Lira and Lugazi Substations

ix. Norplan (u) Ltd (September 2004), Economic and financial Feasibility Study for the

     Namanve 132/33 KV Substation

x. Uganda Electricity Board/ Electricity Transmission Company Ltd, Quarterly Project

     Progress Reports, 2002-2008

xi. World Bank, Aide Memoires, 2001-2008

xii. World Bank, Implementation Completion Report, Uganda Third Power Project,

     Report No.24406, June 2002

xiii.   World Bank, Implementation Status Reports, 2001-2008

xiv.    World Bank, Memorandum of the President on the Proposed Amendments to the

     Legal Credit Agreements of the Uganda Fourth Power Project, December 2004

xv. World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Uganda Fourth Power project, June, 2001




                                                                                     52

