t l v ' ~-  L i ,  / /                       -/
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                           Report No. 10577- MLI
Report No. 10577-MLl Type: (SAR)
MENEZES. I/ X35038 / J9-073/ AF5IE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
MAY 18, 1992
ndustry and Energy Division
ahelian Department
.frica Region
Jocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit          =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00               =      CFAF 274.8
CFAF 1 million                US$3,639
1 French Franc kMFF)   =     50 CFAF
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 tonne                =      1000 kilograms (kg.)
1 tonne                =     32,154 troy ounces (oz.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHIP-UTAH           The BHP-U'1AH Minerals International Group of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company
BRGM                Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres
CIS                 Commonwealth of Independent States
CSO                 De Beers Consolidated Diamond Mines' Central Selling Oiganisation
DNGM                Direction Nationale de la Geologie et des Mines
EDF                 European Development Fund
FAC                 Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GIS                 Geographic Information Systems
LAEA                International Atomic Energy Agency
IAPSU               United Nations Development Program's Inter-Agency Procurement Services Unit
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
IMME                Ministare des Mines, de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie
PANGIS              Pan African Network for a Geological Information System
PDRM                Programme pour le Developpement des Ressources Minieres
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
SOGEMORK            Societe de Gestion et d'Exploitation des Mines d'Or de Kalana
SOMILO              Societe Minibre de Loulo
SOMISY              Societ6 Miniere de Syama
SONAREM             Societe Nationale de Recherche et d'Exploration Miniere
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
UNDTCD              United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for Development
UNESCO              United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission that visited Mali from Febniary 1 to 15, 1992
consisting of Micheline Mescher (AFTIE); Ignatius A. Menezes (AF5SE); Peter Nixon (Consultant-Geologist); and
Gotthard Walser (Consultant-Geologist). Mr. Paul I. Dyson (ASTEG) acted as peer reviewer, and Mr. John E.
Strongman (AFTIE) as adviser. Ms. Silvia B. Sagari and Ms. Katherine Marshall are the managing Division Chief
and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
M INING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .............................                                    i
I.    SECTORAL BACKGROUND  ..............                  ..      ...............           I
A.   Introduction  .......................................                             I
B.   Mineral Resources and Exploration .........................                       2
C.   Production .         .      .......................................               3
D.   Sector Institutions ....................................                          5
E.   Legal and Fiscal Framework .............................                          8
F.    Government Strategy and IDA's Role  .......................                      9
H.  PROJECT ...10
A.   Project Objectives  ...................................                          10
B.   Project Description ...................................                          10
C.   Project Costs and Financing Plan ..........................                      16
D.   Project Implementation  ................................                         17
E.   Procurement .......................................                              17
F.   Disbursements ......................................                             19
G.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ........................                     20
H.   Environment, Health and Safety ...........................                      20
I.    Benefits and Risks ...................................                         20
HI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDAION   ...... ......                                   21
A.   Agreements Reached  .................................                            21
B.   Recommendation  ....................................                             22
ANNEXES
1.    Mali's Geological Potential
2.    History of Geological Prospection in Mali
3.    Artisanal Gold Mining
4.    The World Market for Gold and Diamonds
5.    Letter of Mining Sector Development Policy
6.    Mali's Mining Tax Regime
7.    Training Program
8.    Project Activity Timetable
9.    Supervision Plan
10.  Implementation Contracts
11.  Terms of Reference
MAPS
IBRD 23625 Mali: Known Mineral Occurrences andDposits
IBRD 23626 Mali: Geology
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients or!y in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without 'World Bank authorization.



- i -
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PRO.ECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Bo-'Qwer:          Government of Mali
Benefidary:        Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy
Credit Amount:    SDR 4.4 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
and DyisDctin:    The main objectives of the project are: to strengthen the capacity of the
Government to attract more investment in the mining sector and to help
develop a vibrant industry consisting of large as well as small- and medium-
scale mines financed with both foreign and local capital. The proposed
project will comprise two main components. The Policy and Strategv
Component will consist of several studies, audits, and advisory services to
help the Government of Mali design and implement a new policy and strategy
for the mining sector. The studies will cover the legislative, economic, fiscal,
institutional, artisanal, and environmental aspects of the mining sector.
Implementation of the strategy will involve restructuring the institutional
framework of the sector, revising relevant legislation and procedures, and
closing and/or selling public enterprises and their holdings in the sector to
private investors. Strategy implementation will also involve strengthening the
Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy through the provision of a long-
term expert, and training Government officials in mining finance and
economics, negotiating techniques, metallurgy, and mine management,
operation, and technology. The Investment Promotion Component will
consist of financing consulting services, equipment, and some works to: (a)
organize the documentation center's information and rehabilitate its facilities;
(b) synthesize existing geological data and improve tho- geological information
system; (c) fill the gaps in the geochemical data coverage of prospective
mining areas of the country; and (d) promote specific mineralized areas to
potential investors.



- ii -
and Risks:  The activities financed by the project will help strengthen the institutional
capacity in the country for a sector that has a promising potential. They are
also expected to result in increased foreign and local investment devoted to
mining in Mali in the medium term. Available geological information reveals
that the country has the potential to increase gold production beyond the 4.3
tonnes of gold it produced in 1990, provided private sector investment is
forthcoming in exploration and development. (Rough estimates for resulting
exports within the next 5 to 10 years range from 10 to 15 tonnes of gold per
year, whose value would represent 34% to 51% of Mali's total 1990 exports.)
There is also a potential for the production of diamonds. Mining could thus
become an important source of foreign exchange and tax revenue for Mali's
economy. Furthermore, helping artisanal miners, many of whom are women,
could reduce poverty over a large rural population in the western and
southern regions of the country. While the Government has made the
commitment to pursue private sector development, an important project risk
involves its implementation by sector institutions that operate in a
"government-control" mode. The p.oject is designed .o address this concern
through its emphasis on capacity building. The on-the-job training that will
result from the project's implemention will contribute substantially to human
resource development in the sector. There is also the risk that promotional
efforts would not succeed in attracting investors. Although the sector is
known to be of interest to foreign mining companies, several potential
investors are holding back due to lack of confidence in the policy environment
and sector institutions. The work on mining policy, capacity-building, and
improvement of geological data will help establish an enabling environment
that will lower that risk.



- iii -
Local    Foreign     Total
(in US $ 000's equivalent)
Estimated Project Costs
1. Policy and Strategy Development
* Management consultancy                          --       835        835
* Training                                        --       500        500
* Expert long-term consultant                   120         --        120
* Local personnel                                70          --        70
* Operational support                           255         50        305
* Vehicles and equipment                          --       260        260
Sub-total                                     445       1645      2090
2. Investment Promotion
* Geological data synthesis and thematic mapping  --      2600       2600
* Investment promotion                            --       450        450
3 Local personnel                                60          --        60
* Vehicles and equipment                          --        50         50
* Civil works                                    70                    70
Subntotal                                     130       3100      3230
Total Base Costs                              575       4745      5320
3. Contingencies
A Physical                                       70        405        475
A Price                                          95        610        705
Sub-total                                     165       1015       1180
Total Project Costs                           740       5760      6500
FinancinLi Plan                                     Local   ForeiEn    Total
* Government                                    500          --       500
* IDA                                           240       5760       6000
Estimated Disbursements (IDA)
FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96   FY97
Total                                     500   1,000    2,500   1,500    500
Cumulative                                500   1,500    4,000   5,500   6,000
Economic Rate of Return                             Not Applicable



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.         Introduction
1.1        Mali is a resource-poor country with nearly 80 percent of its population dependent on
agriculture, which accounts for roughly half of GDP and two-thirds of exports. Its other resources
include minerals, in particular gold and possibly diamonds that, if developed, could make an
important contribution to the economy. Considerable geological work has be-en undertaken in Mali,
largely financed with foreign aid, confirming that Mali has promising mineral potential. This
potential has not been developed, however, because not enough exploration and development
investment by the private sector has been forthcoming, largely due to deficient government policies
and weak sector institutions, and because the large amount of geological data generated has not been
properly organized, synthesized and made readily available to potential investors. At present, the
country produces about 4 tonnes of gold per year and no diamonds. Gold is being produced by
artisanal miners and by an industrial-scale mine financed and run by a foreign investor. Small- and
medium-scale mines financed and run by local entrepreneurs, "the missing-middle", do not exist in
Mali.
1.2       Artisanal gold mining is important in Mali, as it has been for centuries, and is a source
of living for an estimated 100,000 seasonal miners, a large proportion of whom are women.
However, artisanal miners operate under unsafe conditions, with very rudimentary methods and
equipment that now leave more than 50 percent of the gold in the ground. They are constrained by
a lack of more efficient and safer technology and cannot benefit from commercial-scale gold
discoveries that they cannot mine on their own because they are not eligible to hold mineral rights
under the current legislation.
1.3       Industrial or commercial mining, on the other hand, has been stymied by lack of a clear
mining policy and strategy, by dysfunctional public enterprises, by an inadequate mineral database,
and by sector institutions that have been guided by an outdated interventionist philosophy and
weakened by corruption. It was only in the late 1980s that the sector was opened to foreign private
invest,rs. One such investor, a well-known multinational mining company BHP-Utah Minerals
International Group (BHP-Utah), opened a gold mine at Syama in southern Mali in 1990. The mine
produces 2.5 tonnes of gold per year, resulting in exports worth approximately US$30 million
annually, representing 8.5% of Mali's total exports in 1990. This promising start is a result of
considerable promotional efforts by the Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy (MMHE), bu.
much more needs to be done by the Government to promote the vigorous growth of the sector. This
includes successful implementation of macro-economic adjustment programs and effective private-
sector-oriented policies that would allow for stable and transparent regulations, a competitive and well
structured tax regime, and easy access to good and well organized geological data. The Government
has launched an adjustment program supported in part by IDA, and is preparing a project that would
primarily focus on fostering the development of the private sector. The Ministry of Mines,
Hydraulics and Energy, which is responsible for the sector through its Direction Nationale de la
G6,ologie et des Mines (DNGM), is committed to taking more vigorous actions to stimulate private



investment in the sector, but it operates with no clear, detailed policies or strategy to guide it.
Moreover, it is not organized to actively promote mining to the private sector. The Mining Sector
Capacity-Building Project will complement the proposed Private Sector Development Project and is
focussed on attracting local and foreign investment to mining through the modification of the
institutional and legal framework, provision of better geological information, and strengthening of
the Government's institutional capacity.
B.         Mineral Resources and Exploration
1.4        Geological Potential.  Mali has good geological potential (Annex 1), and much
geological prospecting has been undertaken since the mid-1950s (Annex 2). This confirms the
existence of greenstone belts with a promising potential for gold mineralization in western Mali
including Loulo, Sadiola, Seroto-Saboussire, Bakolobi, Moralia, and Sausanto, and in southern Mali
at Syama, Misseni, Nampala, and Darabougou (see maps.) Two additional belts of mineralized
sedimentary rocks in eastern Mali are also favorable for gold deposits as well as base metals,
phosphates, manganese, uranium, and fossil fuels. Kimberlite pipes, a primary source of diamonds,
have been found in the Kenieba region of western Mali, but they have not proven to be sufficiently
diamondiferous to be economically expl!itable. There is little doubt that other clusters of kimberlites
remain to be discovered in the craton further east within Mali. In addition, 1.2 billion tonnes of
bauxite (aluminum) have been proven to exist in Mali but the country's landlocked situation makes
transportation costs exorbitantly expensive and the deposit not commercially viable.
1.5        &ploration. Much of the mineral exploration conducted in Mali has been financed
with multilateral and bilateral assistance suc,h as the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP)/United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for Development (UNDTCD), the
European Development Fund (EDF), the Bureau de Recherches Geoiogiques et Winieres (BRGM--a
French state enterprise), the former Soviet Government, and the Belgian Government. This has
resulted in the identification of several deposits and has led to the development of two gold mines,
one at Kalana and the other at Syama. Although this work has confirmed the mineral potential of
the coun ry, the sector's potential is far from being developed because few private investors have
followed up with detailed exploration of specific target sites.
1.6        There are currently twelve exploration permits outstanding, covering some 14,500 km2
of territory in southern and western Mali. Three have been granted to local companies, the remainder
to foreign ones. The granting of mineral exploration and exploitation permits has been done in a
haphazard manner, and there has been no strict enforcement of the agreements with investors. As
a result, only two of the twelve recipients of exploration permits are currently actively exploring and
meeting their work commitments. Furthermore, and for reasons not entirely clear, the Government
has not claimed back the acreage from investors whose permits have expired. Hence, there remain
large tracts of prospective territory that are not available to new entrants. Agreement has been
reached during negotiations that the Government will promptly free all of the acreage that it legally
can by September 1993 and make that acreage available for exploration to other interested parties.
It has also been agreed that exploration and mining permits will be awarded using a transparent,
competitive approach to be designed and put into effect under the project by January 1994.
1.7        Geologiical Data Availability. The extent and state of geological data are extremely
important factors in attracting foreign investment. Mali has good geological, geochemical, mineral
location, and geophysical data coveing much of its territory. However, less than 35% of Mali's
territory is covered by modern, detailed geological or photogeological maps. The majority of the
available geological and mineral information is scattered and in different formats. It needs to be



organized and synthesized, and gaps in the data need to be filled. A geographic information systems
(GIS) integrated mapping approach is needed to put all of the available data into a single format that
can be used to attract investors.1/
C.         Production
1.8        Mali's mining sector currently produces primarily gold for export and a negligible
amount of phosphate for the domestic market. It has been estimated that Mali produced between 2
and 4 tonnes of gold metal per year in the past (see Table 1). However, the production statistics are
not reliable since the extent of smuggling in and out of the country cannot be estimated. In Mali,
as in most Sub-Saharan African countries, gold is being produced either by local artisanal miners or
by foreign or Government-run commercial mines. The smal'    medium-scale mines (producing
500 kg. of gold per year or less), the "missing middle", have y co be developed. Until 1990, most
of the gold in Mali was produced by artisanal miners. Since 1990, Mali's first private, foreign-run
commercial gold mine has begun production and has become the country's principal source of gold
exports.
Table 1: MALI GOLD PRODUCTION ESTIMATE
Production            1987       1988      1989       1990
(in tonnes)
Artisanal             3.2        2.8        1.8        1.4
Production
Estimates
Kalana Mine           0.3        0.3        0.2        0.4
Syama Mine            -           -         -         2.5
Total                 3.5        3.1        2.0       4.3
Average Gold          446        437        381       384
Price (US$/oz.)
Calculated            50.2       43.6       24.5      53.1
Revenues
(million US$)
Souse: Ministy of Mines, Bamako, November 1991.
1.9        Artisanal Mining. Artisanal gold mining is important in Mali, as it has been for
centuries, and is a complementary source of revenue for an estimated 100,000 rural farmers who
mine on a seasonal basis at more than 250 sites located in southern and western parts of the country:
(a) the Bambouck area in the Keni6ba zone (74 sites); and (b) the BouiT6 area in the Kangaba (80
sites), Kalana-Yanfolila (84 sites), and Bagod-Kekoro (18 sites) zones. It is estimated that, on
A GIS is a computer system that can hold and use data describing features at and beneath the
earth's surface.



4 -
average, each miner derives approximately the equivalent of US$400/yr. from her/his mining activity
(Annex 3).
1.10       The social and environmental problems usually associated with "gold rush" type artisanal
mining in other countries seem to be minimal among the artisanal miners in Mali because they are
well organized under their customary village structure and laws. Howevor, underground artisanal
gravel mining is dangerous and has been estimated to be less than 50 percent efficient due to poor
mining practices (pillars of ore are left underground to support the galleries of underground mines).
Artisanai miners need better methods to support mine walls so as to reduce the number of accidental
deaths and better tools so that they may mine ore beyond the reach of their handtools. However, air
hammers, pumps, and other appropriate small-scale mining equipment, which many miners can afford
to buy, are not available in the local area. Some desirable equipment is not available anywhere in
the country.
1.11       A very important barrier to development in this industry is the legal treatment of
artisanal mining in the mining code. It currently does not allow artisanal miners to apply for mining
permits or receive legal mining title to their discoveries. Hence the miners have no negotiable
instrument capable of providing them benefits from the discovery beyond the return they receive from
their manual labor in the mine. They don't have sufficient resources to develop a more sophisticated
mine in cases where the discovery may warrant a mine larger than they can mine on their own, and
they cannot seek a buyer or joint venture partner as they cannot lay legal claim to the property.
Moreover, they are liable to be expelled from the property when it is granted to a legal permit
holder.
1.12       Under the project, an anthropological/legal/economic study will be undertaken to
determine, among other: the method by which mineral rights can be awarded to ?rtisanal miners all
the while respecting their traditional laws and institutions, so that they may attract investment in their
discoveries; and how health hazards can be reduced and safety improved. It has been agreed during
negotiations that the Government would take steps towards facilitating the acquisition of mineral
rights by artisanal miners by January 1994. It has also been agreed that, to safeguard the
environment from future damage and to safeguard the miners' safety and health, the Government
would prepare environmental, health and safety regulations and norms and implement them by
September 1994. The project will finance a local promotional campaign to increase local awareness
of opportunities in small- and medium-scale mining, and provide the initial contacts which could lead
to joint ventures between local investors and artisanal miners. Through training of DNGM officials,
the project will help improve the technical assistance that the Government can provide to artisanal
miners and local investors in the areas of small-scale mine evaluation, operation, and technology.
1.13       CQ-i jercial Production.  Kalana was the first modern gold mine to have been
developed in Mali. The mine was opened in 1983 and was exploited by the Government (see Para.
1.20) with Soviet technical assistance. Due to significant errors in grade evaluation and mining
operations and equipment, the mine produced less than 500 kg. of gold per year rather than the 2
tonnes/yr. that had been expected. The mine is now inoperative and flooded during most of the year.
1.14       The only other modern mine, Syama in southern Mali, was developed by a multinational
mining company (BHP-Utah). In its first year (1990) the open-pit mine produced 2.5 tonnes of gold
and has already had an important impact on both the local and national economies: it spends almost
US$1 million equivalent per month in Mali and has paid more than US$5 million of taxes in the last
two years. Extensive drilling of the underlying orebody suggests that the area may contain reserves
of over 90 tonnes of gold. Requiring an additional investment of US$80 million to exploit those



reserves, the joint venture has negotiated the entry of the IFC in a second phase of the operations.
This investment is expected to result in a production of 5 tonnes of gold per year for at least another
5 years, followed by a third phase.
1.15       The Syndicat Or, a joint exploration venture between the Government and BRGM,
discovered a third gold deposit at Loulo in western Mali. As a result, a joint mining venture, Societe
Miniere de Loulo (SOMILO), was created between the Government (51%) and BRGM and an
exploitation permit was awarded to it in 1988. SOMILO has not yet developed the deposit, however.
The Syndicat Diamant, which was created as a joint venture between the Government (20%),
MINERSA (40%) and BRGM (40%), has found some kimberlite pipes but none have proven
commercially viable. It's exploration permits, awarded in 1986, are now expired.
1.16       Buying, selling and exporting gold and oth-r minerals in Mali is legal and uncontrolled
by the Government. Annex 4 provides background information on the world market for gold and
diamonds. Gold is freely exported and there have been no market constraints. At present, this
liberal policy is benefitting the country since vome gold inflows from surrounling countries,
principally from Burkina Faso, are being exported through Mali thereby earning the Governrment
some revenues. The extent of cross-border trade, however, is not known.
D.         Sector Institutions
1.17       The Government is committed to taking vigorous steps to stimulate private investment
in the sector and has confirmed its commitment in a policy letter submitted to the Association
(Annex 5). However, it operates without a clear, detailed sector policy or strategy to guide it and
with dysfunctional public enterprises and institutions that have been guided by an outdated
interventionist philosophy and weakened by corruption.
1.18       The overall responsibility for the mining sector lies with the MMHE and four
institutions/public enterprises reporting to it, as shown in Figure 1. The institutional structure is
characterized by entities that tend to evolve with the flow of donor aid that finances exploration
activity in the sector. New entities have been created without dismantling old ones. The functions
and responsibilities of the institutions overlap, and are redundant and outdated in the current
environment of economic liberalization. In addition, conflicts of interest arise between administrative
and operational functions, and procedures lack transparency and effectiveness. The staff is neither
experienced in- nor equipped for- promoting investment, monitoring mining activity, or providing
local investors with technical support.
1.19       The oldest of the institutions is the Societe Nationale de Recherche et d'Exploitation
Miniere (S 3t'AREM). Created soon after independence, it was given the responsibility of managing
the mining sector and a monopoly on the exploration and exploitation of t6le country's mineral
resources. Between 1963 and 1969, SONAREM was active in exploring and mapping Malian
territory with Soviet assistance. The large amount of geological data generated, however, has not
been properly organized or synthesized. With the promulgation of Mali's first mining code in 1970,
however, SONAREM's public policy functions and hegemony over the sector ended. While it still
exists legally, and its 297 employees are on the Government payroll, it has not done any exploration
work for a decade. The institution's sole function in the last few years has been to sell explosives
and to do a limited amount of water drilling.



hi        aI                                                      I jaS SM        S
r~~~~~~~~~a ta



1.20       SONAREM has entered into some mining ventures but was never able to capitalize on
them due to ineffective management and an inability to operate as a commercial entity. It was
responsible for developing, with Soviet assistance, the Kalana gold mine, which opened in 1983. The
mine was transferred to a public enterprise, Societe de Gestion et d 'Exploitation des Mines d 'Or de
Kalana (SOGEMORK), which ran the mine since its first year of production in 1985. The enterprise
has recently been liquidated after having amassed debt equivalent to US$86 million. The Government
has decided to propose early retirement to the 585 civil servants who are employed at the mine. It
was agreed during negotiations that, as part of the project, the Government would privatize the
Kalana mine. SONAREM has also created and retains, in the name of the Government, participation
in: (a) a phosphate company at Tilemsi, SEPT S.A. (32% participation), which was developed with
German technical assistance; (b) Mali-Marbres (20% participation); and (c) Eaux Minerales du Mali
(5% participation). All of these activities are now inoperative, yet some still have employees on the
Government payroll.
1.21       In 1967, SONAREM's public policy functions were transferred to the Direction
Nationale de la GCologie et des Mines (DNGM). The DNGM is responsible for mining policy,
regulates the sector and, at the same time, is involved in exploration and mining as manager of the
Government's participation in mining ventures.2/ Similarly, it has access to privileged information,
being responsible for the geological survey function and for granting mining permits as well. This
situation has developed the same conflicts of interest the DNGM was created to resolve in
SONAREM's operations. The DNGM's most important activity is to grant, monitor, and relinquish
mining permits but the procedures it uses lack transparency. In some cases, functions it should be
handling are being delegated to others. For example, although the DNGM is best placed to organize
and lead negotiations with private investors, the negotiations typically have been handled on an ad
hQ basis, involving representatives from many Ministries who are unfamiliar with the matter at hand.
There is little institutional memory to help propel the negotiations forward, as the participants change
from one negotiation to another.
1.22       The DNGM is also the home of the documentation center, which is the repository for
all geological information and maps generated by the DNGM itself as well as by private firms and
donor aid agencies. At present, the center cannot accommodate investors' needs for information.
The physical facilities are in need of repair, the data need to be organized and missing data must be
retrieved, in particular from SONAREM, foreign donors and private companies that have explored
the Malian territory. Although the Center received French foreign aid from the Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) between 1980 and 1985, the equipment it received has deteriorated because the
center has no operating budget. For example, since 1989 it has received less than US$4,000
equivalent to finance operating costs. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is helping
the Government organize the center's information on uranium. This IDA project will help the
Government extend the methods developed by the UIEA to all other minerals.
1.23       In order to sustain both human and technical assets acquired as a result of a gold
exploration project (Or Bagoe) financed by the UNDP, the Government created a semi-independent
entity in 1990, the Programme pour le Developpement des Ressources Minieres (PDRM). The
PDRM acts as an executing agency and is an integral part of the DNGM, but this creates significant
Z/   The Government is technically a partner in all new exploration ventures since, according to
the mining code, it receives a minimum of 10 percent free equity in all mining ventures in
Mali.



- 8 -
conflicts of interest because it also provides profit-making drilling and laboratory services to private
investors and donor agencies. The PDRM is well staffed and equipped but its operations are
currently being maintained with UNDP assistance, which will terminate in December 1992. The
UNDP is considering providing new support to the sector.
1.24      With over 1000 employees, the sector is overstaffed, particularly the public enterprises.
Moreover, most of the professionals are geologists without direct mining, metallurgy, or mine
management experience and little experience in legal and financial matters. The sector's heavy wage
bill does not leave enough resources for adequate financing of other operating costs to ensure the
sustainability of the institutions: in 1991, salary payments represented 75% of the Government's total
budget expenditure of US$4.2 million equivalent for the sector (see Table 2). Agreement has been
reached that under the project, the institutions will be restructured and rationalized by January 1994,
resulting a significant reduction in personnel, and that a retirement scheme will be instituted by
September 1993 for staff who cannot be absorbed in the new structure of the institutions. Agreement
was also reached on the availability of adequate operating budgets after the new institutions are in
place, and subject to the findings of the mid-term review.
Table 2: MALI - MINING SECTOR BUDGETS. 1991
(In 000's of US $ equivalents)
Institution       Number of         Salaries     Total budget
civil servants                expenditure
DNGM/PDRM           147              420          1,270
SONAREM             297              790           990
SOGEMORK            585             1,850         1,850
Tilemsi             47               130           130
Phosphates Co.
TOTAL              1,076            3,190        4,240
Sourv: Woldd Bait estitates ting DNGM, PDRM and SONAREM 1991 taitcs.
E.         Ial and Fiscal Framework
1.25       Mining in Mali is governed by a mining code initially adopted in 1970. It has been
revised and the changes have been promulgated in 1991 as part of a policy improvement package
supported by IDA and other donors, under a structural adjustment program. The new mining code
recognizes three types of mining activities: (a) orpaillage or artisanal mining; (b) small-scale mining
and (c) commercial or large-scale mining. Accompanying the new mining code is the model
agreement, which reduces the need for lengthy negotiations between the investor and the Government,
and considerably accelerates the process of awarding mining permits. The model agreement must
be signed by both small-scale and large-scale mining concerns with the Government. It fixes the
fiscal obligations (including income taxes, exemptions, depreciation allowances, royalties, etc.) for
the duration of the mining activity (Annex 6). In addition, the Government gets a free carried interest
of 10 percent, with the possibility of buying an additional 10 percent for a maximum of 20 percent



- 9 -
participation in any private sector exploration venture. The new mining code, however, has a number
of drawbacks, and will need some adjustments. For example:
(a)   Artisanal mining is recognized but the artisanal mining regime does not confer mineral
rights;
(b)  mining permits for the small-scale mine regime are not transferrable. Hence, a small-
scale mine investor who finds a deposit too large for her/him to exploit alone, cannot
sell it to a larger firm and benefit from the discovery; and
(c)   discrepancies and contradictions occur within and among the three texts of the mining
law-the mining code, the model agreement, and the accompanying regulations. For
example, whereas it is stated, in the mining code, that the Government will be limited
to a 20 percent participation in any exploration and exploitation venture, it is also
mentioned, in the model agreement, that the Government will have the right to develop,
on its own, a deposit found to be commercially viable on a property if the holder of the
permit does not wish to develop it.
1.26       The mining tax regime embodied in the new mining code improves the investment
conditions in the mining sector. However, it involves some aspects that still need to be evaluated,
such as:
(a)  the mining tax regime in Mali gives tax breaks-a 5-year tax holiday and 27.5%
depletion allowance-which are not especially valued by investors and unnecessarily
reduces tax revenues to the Government, while it imposes a relatively high
royalty/production tax to which investors are extremely sensitive;
(b)  there are ambiguities that cannot be firmly clarified by the legal documents or the
authorities on such points as the dividend withholding tax exemption and the
determination of accelerated depreciation rates; and
(c)  the code is not internally consistent with respect to fiscal matters nor is it consistent and
cross-referenced with the model agreement, its accompanying regulations, Mali's
general tax code, the customs code, or the international agreements to which Mali is a
signatory.
1.27       It was agreed during negotiations that the mining code and the model mining agreement
would be revised to reflect the new mining sector policy and strategy by January 1994.
F.         Government Strategy and the IDA's Role
1.28       It was only recently that the private sector was acknowledged to be important to
economic growth in Mali. The state-dominated development strategy pursued until the early 1980's
led to severe distortions in economic incentives, which impeded growth throughout the economy.
In 1988, after a series of budget crises resulted in the generalized bankruptcy of the public enterprise
sector and the national development bank, Mali began to redress the public sector bias in its
economy. The aim was to increase private sector participation in production, trade, and employment.
For the past few years, therefore, Mali has been implementing an adjustment program, supported by
the IMF, IDA, and other bilateral and multilateral donors, to restructure and reduce the bloated and
inefficient public enterprise sector and introduce appropriate policies to improve the environment for



- 10-
private initiative, including a better incentives system. Policy improvements under the adjustment
program include the liquidation or rehabilitation of public enterprises involved in mining.
1.29       The project complements the actions initiated under the adjustment operations supported
by IDA and the proposed Private Sector Development Project. The Government attaches high
priority to the search for minerals that have commercial potential as a means of diversifying the
economic activities in the country. After years of relying on the State, the Government is evolving
to a more liberal philosophy, leaving mineral exploration and extraction to the private investor, both
foreign and local. To accelerate the pace of exploration activities, the Government has decided to
undertake a number of studies that will provide it with the basis for defining a comprehensive policy
that will define the contractual/legislative framework for mining exploration and production, and for
its implementation. It has also decided to provide timely and updated geological information to
investors. IDA's continued involvement is needed to ensure that the private sector is indeed
encouraged to invest in the sector and to help resolve sensitive institutional and organizational issues.
II. THE PROJECT
A.         Project Objectives
2.1        The main objectives of the project are to strengthen the capacity of the Government of
Mali to attract more investment to the mining sector and to help develop a vibrant industry consisting
of both large mines as well as small- and medium-scale mines financed with both foreign and local
capital. Specifically, work done under the project will help the Government develop and implement
a strategy for the mining sector that will lead to improvement of the institutional, legal and fiscal
framework for the sector. It will also involve the provision of better geological information to
potential investors and an improved negotiation process.
B.         Proiect Description
2.2        The project will have two main components: a Policy and Strategy Component and an
Investment Promotion Component. The Policy and Strategy Component will include studies,
consulting services, equipment, and materials to assist in the design and implementation of a new
mining policy and strategy and to strengthen the institutions through training and technical assistance.
The Investment Promotion Component will provide the Government with management consulting
services, equipment, and some works to: (a) develop an adequate geological data base; (b) support
the organization and rehabilitation of the documentation center, which is the Government's repository
of geological data and maps; and (c) assist in organizing a promotion campaign.
1. Policy and Strategy Component
2.3        The work done under the Policy and Strategy Component of the project will assist the
Government to define more clearly its mining sector policy (i.e., to redefine its role in the sector,
the role of foreign investment, and the role of the local miners, now predominantly artisanal) and to
ensure adequate environmental, health, and safety measures for the sector. This work will also assist
the Government in defining a strategy consistent with its policy decisions. The strategy will
determine: (a) how and how much the Government will share in the wealth derived from mineral
extraction; (b) the rights and obligations of foreign and local investors; and (c) how the Government
will ensure that the rules of the game are upheld. Undei the project, the Government will be assisted
in implementing the strategy through: (a) restructuring the institutions and their procedures; (b)



- 11 -
improving the mining law; (c) privatizing state mining enterprises; (d) training Government officials
so that they may become more efficient in carrying out the policy and in implementing the law; and
(e) providing technical assistance to the MMHE in organizational and project management.
2.4        The project will provide consultancy services to carry out the following activities:
(a)   Analysis of Policy Alternatives.  Six studies will be undertaken to provide the
background information on policy alternatives and serve as a basis for policy
formulation. They will also pay particular attention to identifying barriers to entry of
private capital in the mining sector. The studies will involve the following topics: the
policy and legislative implications of a reduced Government role and of a greater private
sector participation in mining; revision of the sector's institutional structure and
procedures; international mining cost competitiveness; international comparative mining
tax regimes; artisanal mining/local industry development; and safeguarding the
environment, and the health and safety of the miners.
(i)    As a result of the roles of Government and private sector study. alternative
policies and their attendant laws and regulations defining the relationship between
the state and the private sector in the business of mining will be presented and
assessed.
(ii)    The second study will deal with restructuring the institutions of the mining
sector, in particular the MMHE, the DNGM, the PDRM, and SONAREM. The
objective is to define a more efficient and less costly institutional framework that
can be more appropriate to the development of mining activities.  It is
particularly important to clearly define the role of each institution, separating the
different functions (and to define operating procedures and norms) to avoid
conflicts of interest relating to:
3    administration of mining permits and land management,
*    production and storage of geological information,
*    investment promotion,
*    provision of commercial drilling services,
-    management of the state's participation shares in joint ventures,
*    assistance to- and negotiation with mining investors, and
*    provision of extension services to artisanal miners.
It will also be important to da ermine: an appropriate level for the operating
budgets and their sources of financing; the number and qualifications of
personnel needed; and the relations among institutions.
(iii)    As part of the international mining cost competitiveness study, the cost structure
of mining in Mali will be comped to that of ot' -r countries in the Sahel region
as well as to that of other gold mining countrie round the world.
(iv)    The international comparative tax study will involve the comparison of the fiscal
regimes cf countries offering investment opportunities comparable to those of
Mali's mining sector. The effective tax burden currently implied by Mali's
mining tax regime (for gold, diamonds, and base metals) will be compared to that
of the other countries, and the pros and cons of the tax instruments used will be



- 12 -
analyzed.  As part of this study, the mining code's tax regime will be
"harmonized" with the general tax code, the customs code and any international
commercial agreements to which Mali is a signatory.
(v)     Work done under the artisanal mining/local industry development study will
assist in determining how a local small- and medium-scale gold mining industry
can be developed on the basis of local investment funds, a free local mineral
rights market, and artisanal miners' experience and gold discoveries. It will
provide information on the traditional socio-economic structure of artisanal
mining geared toward designing a legal entity that can preserve its important
features and yet be recognized by Mali's legal code. It will also research and
propose the type of mineral rights that can be granted to this legal entity of local
miners that will both attract investment to those operations and be feasible from
an administrative and legal point of view.
(vi)    The sixth study will involve the establishment of environmental safeguards and
the development of environmental criteria for the mining sector. The study will
involve an assessment of the current mining activity's impact on the environment,
on the health and security of the miners, and on the country's archeological
cultural property. Recommendations will be made on the types of environmental,
health and safety regulations and norms that should be put into effect, and on the
appropriate methods for monitoring them. It will also recommend a program of
surveying and protection of the archeological sites found in mining areas.
(b)   Policy Deliberations. Shortly following the completion of the studies, the consultants
will organize and conduct workshops where the main aspects of a mining policy and
strategy (mainly the topics researched in the studies) are initially explained by experts
in the field to the workshop attendees, and then discussed.  This process will
approximate the customary method of evaluating policy options and create the consensus
needed for effective and lasting policy change within the Malian context, the Oftats
genbraux. The workshops will include expert panelists, such as representatives of
different mining companies, geologists, mining lawyers and mineral economists from
various mining countries of the world, including other African countries with important
mining experience and IDA. Representatives of the concerned Ministries and interested
local leaders will be invited to participate. A first workshop will deal with the general
issues regarding mining policy and strategy-the relative roles of the state, foreign
investors, and the local industry; and the competitive position of Mali's mining sector
vis-a-vis the international mining industry. In the second workshop, the mining taxation
workshop, the results of the comparative tax study will be discussed with mining
taxation experts. Issues of alternative taxation schemes, which affect foreign as well
as local investors, will be discussed. The third workshop will involve the development
of artisanal mining as the basis for a local mining industry. It will be based on the
results of the study and will involve a discussion of the alternative ways to grant mineral
rights to artisanal miners, the creation of a local mining title market, and the alternative
ways to attract local investment in mining. A fourth workshop will deal with mining-
related environmental, health, and safety issues. The discussions will center on the
measures to be taken to minimize environmental damage, and health and safety risks to
miners. Environmental experts and representatives of NGO's will be invited to discuss
the results of the study.



- 13 -
(c) Policy and Strategy Paper. The consultants will organize committees among the
MMHE and the other government ministries concerned to bring the workshop
discussions to fruition and to define a consensus. Each committee will be charged with
detailing the strategy and implementation plan for one of the subjects debated in the
workshops. A policy and strategy paper will be written, clearly defining the consensus
reached in the process of formulating mining sector policy and strategy at the workshops
and subsequent govermment meetings held for that purpose. This activity will lay the
foundation for the process of translating this statement into laws and regulations (para
2.4f) and to begin implementing the strategy.
(d)  Institutional Reform. The consultants will assist the MMHE in putting into place an
appropriate structure for the sector institutions and in revising their procedures. Their
work will be based on the Government's policy and strategy declaration and the results
of the institutional structure study, on which IDA will have been consulted. The aim
of the restructuring will be to increase the efficiency of the institutions by reducing
conflicts of interests and improving the flow of information among and between the
institutions. The reorganization will touch on the various functions of the sector
institutions: (a) commercial prospecting and drilling services; (b) investment promotion
and analysis of industry trends; (c) project economics, finance and taxation; (d) legal
services; (e) mining administration, including mining permit and land management; (f)
extension services to artisanal miners; (g) geological survey activities; (h) safeguarding
miners' health, mine safety, and the environment; and (i) negotiating with investors.
It is also important that: (a) the institutions be provided with an adequate operating
budget; (b) a retirement scheme be instituted for staff who cannot be absorbed in the
new structure of the institutions; (c) a transparent and fair method of awarding mining
permits be instituted; (d) a negotiating procedure be defined to simplify and standardize
all negotiations with potential mining investors; and (e) possibly that a "guichet unique"
be instituted to simplify the acquisition of exploration permits. It is extremely important
that the restructuring strengthen the coordinating offices that determine the relationship
between the institutions concerned with the mining sector, in particular, the mining
offices of the Ministry of the Budget and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and
the finance office of the MMHE.
(e)   Privatization of Public Enterprises.  In addition, the consultants will help the
Government sell or close the Kalana mine (SOGEMORK) and the Tilemsi Phosphate
mine (SEPT S.A.), and possibly the other holdings of SONAREM, i.e., Mali Marbres
and Eaux Mindrales du Mali. The consultants will synthesize the existing information
and supplement it as needed so that a full technical and economic evaluation (a "duc
diligence" study) is available on each of the entities that are still in the Government's
portfolio. The consultants will present detailed plans for either privatizing the mines
completely or closing down these entities, depending on the results of the audits.
(f)  ILal Reforan. The mining code and model agreement will be modified as necessary
and environmental regulations prepared. The consultants will help the MMHE modify
the legislation, consistent with the policy and strategy that emerge. They will help draft
whatever new or modified regulations will be needed to put into effect the mining sector
strategy including the decrees that specify the statutes of the sector's new institutions
and their operating procedures. For example, the project will make available resources
to help draft appropriate environmental, health and safety regulations, the norms against
-which mining operations will be monitored, and the decrees granting the institutions the



- 14 -
power to implement that p0icy. The consultants will also make the mining code
consistent and cross referenced with the model agreement, the code's regulations, the
general tax code, the customs code and any international commercial agreements entered
into by Mali. In addition, the consultants will help Mali enter into double taxation
treaties with the major investment exporting countries, and formulate the proper
documents to harmonize with those new commitments.
2.5        Training. A specialist consultancy, such as an educational facility specializing in
mining, will manage the human resource development sub-component, which will reinforce the
reorganized mining sector institutions. The training will provide: (a) the officials of the MMHE,
the negotiating unit, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of the Budget with
knowledge and experience in mining finance and economics; (b) the negotiating team with knowledge
of negotiating proc dures and negotiating skills; (c) the extension service and others (e.g., geologists
enticed to take voluntary retirement, unemployed young geologists coming from foreign schools) with
knowledge of metallurgy and experience in small mine operation and technology; and (d) the
individuals charged with the mine environmental, health, and safety safeguard functions with some
experience on international norms, environmental damage control, and mine safety. In particular,
the project will finance: (a) in-country seminars, given at the local geological college, in mining
economics, financial analysis of mining projects, and techniques in effective negotiation (basic level
in the first year, higher levels each year thereafter); (b) short-term courses, possibly abroad, in
mining operations, metallurgy, mine management, mining techn,ology, mine safety, and environmental
damage mitigation; and (c) internships in small-scale mines in selected countries, possibly Zimbabwe,
Mexico, and Chile. A detailed training program was submitted (Annex 7) and discussed at the time
of credit negotiations.
2.6        Managerial Assistance to the       The services of an expert will be provided to
assist the MMHE to coordinate the activities under the project. In particular, this consultancy will
provide financial and organizational management, and recordkeeping services. Operational support,
vehicles, and some equipment to assist in the coordination of the project activities will also be
financed under the project.
2.   Investment Promotion Component
2.7        A consultancy services contract will be awarded to international consultants experienced
in the use of GIS in geological/geophysical mapping and mineral exploration for the preparation of
an improved geological data base. The consultants will assist the Govermnent to: perform a specific
synthesis of regional data on western and southern Mali including filling in gaps in geological,
geochemical and geophysical ground coverage; compile and synthesize country-wide data; and
organize and modernize the documentation center.  A separate contract will be awarded to
international consultants or mining sector promoters who will help the Government to: produce
promotional materials, organize promotional campaigns, and evaluate the feasibility and promote the
development of the gold refining and goldsmithing industries.
Geological PData
2.8        Specifically, the consultants will train five Malian geologists while performing the
following tasks using a two-phased approach. Phase I will include:
(a)   Undertaking a detailed synthesis of data on the western and southern regions of Mali.
This will illustrate the relationship of the geology and structure to the location of known



- 15 -
ore bodies in order to identify potential areas of further exploration (possibly new
aeromagnetic surveys to be performed outside the scope of this project). The work will
involve:
(i)    digitizing and integrating existing data bases;
(ii)    compiling new data for use in a GIS format by filling in gaps in the geological-
geochemical-geophysical ground coverage of the two regions; and
(iii)    producing 10 GIS mineral anomaly maps of 1:200,000 scale.
(b)  Phase II will involve integrating country-wide data by:
(i)    combining 55 images of LANDSAT data with existing geophysical information
(gravity and aeromagnetic) to produce 28 sheets of geological maps at 1:500,000
scale to extrapolate and interpolate structures and geological boundaries and
provinces;
(ii)    making ground-truth observatio.is in key areas to provide target areas for further
development; and
(iii)    producing lithospheric thickness maps at 1:1,500,000 scale to determine
diamondiferous kimberlite provinces.
Documentation Center
2.9        Assisted by a team of Malian specialists, the consultants will organize the documentation
center in order to make readily available to potential investors the valuable unpublished material
relating to geological and prospecting activities and the geological and photogeological maps that it
houses. This will involve:
(a)  reorganizing the documentary materials and maps for all minerals, and cataloguing them
using a system compatible with- and linked to the bibliographic method already
developed for uranium by the IAEA;
(b)  transferring to the center the materials and data currently being stored in other
buildings, notably with the PDRM and SONAREM;
(c)  acquiring data from overseas;
(d)  training staff in modem methods of documentation; and
(e)  collaborating with the Pan-African Network for a Geological Information System
(PANGIS) (created within the Association of African Geological Surveys at the initiative
of UNESCO) to share information and establish a documentation system.
Investment Promotion Camrpaig
2.10       Working closely with the MMHE's promotion officials, the consultants will organize
a marketing campaign that will involve the following activities:



- 16 -
(a)   producing a set of promotional materials using the results of the geological data
syntheses and targeting it to specific niches of likely investors;
(b)   disseminating those materials;
(c)   promoting specific prospective areas to individual investors, including the state-owned
assets that are to be sold, and holding investor conferences abroad, and one in Mali;
(d)   organizing a local campaign to raise local investors' awareness of investment
opportunities in the mining sector. This campaign will be aimed at likely investors such
as commerVants (traders), public officials taking early retirement, and Malians living
overseas; and
(e)   evaluating and appraising mining related activities, in particular gold refining and
goldsmithing, and assessing the methods and feasibility of promoting investment in those
activities.
2.11         In addition, the project will assist the documentation center by providing some funds to
rehabilitate its office and storage space, and some office equipment and a modern computer system
to facilitate the organization of the information and maps that it houses.
C.           Project Costs and F_nandng Plan
2.12         A summary of project cost estimates is presented in Table 3 below.
Table 3: ESIIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(in 000's of US S equivalent)
LAL          FOREIGN       .TOTAL
1. Poliey and Strategv Develonment
* Mnagemaent consultancy                               -              835          835
* Taining                                              -              500          500
* Expert long4-ern consultant                         120               -           120
* Local personnel                                      70               -           70
* Operational support                                 255              50          305
* Vehicles and equipment                               -              260          260
Sub-towK                   544S             1645         2090
2. Investment Promotion
* Geological data synthesis and thematic uapping        -            2600         2600
* Investment pomotion                                  -              450          450
* Local personnel                                      60               -           60
* Vehicles and equipment                               -               50           50
* Civil works                                          70               -           70
Sub-totM                    F130            3100         3230
Total Base Costs            575             4745         5320
3. Contlecise
* Physical                                             70             405          475
* Price                                                95             610          705
SAO-1ta                      165            1015         1180
Total Prolect Costs         740             5760         6500



- 17 -
2.13       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$6.5 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$5.8 million (90%). Cost estimates are based
on 1991 prices, with about 10% added for physical contingencies and 2.8% for price escalation for
1992, 3.9% for 1993 and 1994, and 3.8% for 1995 onwards.
2.14       The financing plan includes an IDA Credit of US$6.0 million equivalent which will
finance all of the foreign exchange costs and some of the local costs (US$0.24 million equivalent).
The Government will finance the remainder of the local costs, or approximately US$0.5 million
equivalent.
D.         Project Implementation
2.15       The project will be executed in 4 years (see Annex 8 for the timetable of project
activities). The Government is targeting a short implementation period and the procurement
arrangements are also designed to reduce the implementation period, using predominantly 5 major
contracts. The MMHE will be responsible for project implementation. The Ministry has had
experience with implementation of projects financed by IDA, UNDP and others with a reasonable
amount of success. It has a large pool of well-trained geologists, geophysicists and other technicians.
It does lack, however, financial and organizational management skills to manage the activities of the
project. It was agreed during negotiations that the project will therefore finance one long-term
consultant to provide the Ministry with assistance in coordinating the activities of the project.
Appointment of the long-term consultant as well as the nomination of counterparts for the first
activities of the project are conditions of credit effectiveness. It was also agreed during negotiations
that supervision will include annual performance reviews and an in-depth mid-term review in
September 1994, which will be conducted jointly between the Government and IDA to: (a) review
progress made to-date; (b) establish a program for the remaining activities of the Project; (c) monitor
the performance of the contractors; (d) agree on any modifications to project design and/or
contracting arrangements, if necessary; and (e) agree on the financial resources to be provided by the
Government to cover the operating costs of the sector institutions. A detailed supervision plan is
presented in Annex 9. Key consulting contracts, especially of larger duration, will be monitored
closely. They will be subject to joint annual performance reviews by the Government and IDA,
where the transfer of know-how will be a major factor in the evaluations (see contract arrangements
in Annex 10).
E.         Procurement
2.16       Procurement under the project will cover the cost of consultant services for technical
assistance, training, equipment, and operational support. The procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 4 below. To facilitate management of the project activities and the procurement
process, predominantly 5 contracts will be used to cover: (a) the policy and strategy development
process and its implementation, (b) the training and internship program, (c) the geological data work
and the improvement of the documentation center, (d) the production of promotional material and the
promotional campaigns, and (e) the expert assistance to the MMHE to coordinate the project.
Consultants and technical assistance personnel to be financed by IDA will be appointed in accordance
with the Bank Group's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as an Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981), and will be employed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.  Vehicles, equipment, and other material (US $360,000) will be
procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). All consulting contracts and contracts for goods
for amounts of US$50,000 equivalent or more will be subjected to IDA's prior review. This will



- 18 -
result in more than 90% of contracts under prior review. Other contracts will be subject to selective
post-award review.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US S million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Component                                           LCB              Other        Total Cost
1. Policv and StrateQv:
* Management consultancy                                              1.00          1.00
(1.00)        (1.00)
* Training                                                            0.70          0.70
(0.70)        (0.70)
* Expert long-term consultant                                         0.12          0.12
(0.12)        (0.12)
* Local personnel                                                     0.08          0.08
(0.00)        (0.00)
* Operational support                                                 0.45          0.45
(0.22)        (0.22)
* Vehicles and equipment                               0.30 a}                      0.30
(0.30)                       (0.30)
2. Investment Promotion
* Geological data synthesis and mapping                               3.00          3.00
(3.00)        (3.00)
* Investment promotion                                                0.60          0.60
(0.60)        (0.60)
* Local personnel                                                     0.09          0.09
(0.00)        (0.00)
* Vehicles and equipment                               0.06                        0.06
(0.06)                       (0.06)
* Civil works                                          0.10                         0.10
(0.00)                       (0.00)
IQIAL                                                  0.46           6.04          6.50
(0.36)        (5.64)         (6.00)
(1)     Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA
(2)     If feasible, the vehicles, whose total value is estimated at US$200,000, to be procured over time and in small lots
will be procured through the United Nations Development Progran's Inter-Agency Procurement Sevices Unit
(APSU).
2.17         In FY91, Mali's portfolio consisted of 19 operations, including 4 adjustment operations.
Although 6 projects have an implementation rating of 3, the average overall rating is 1.9, slightly
better than in 1990. Two recurrent problem areas in project implementation are delays in
procurement and lack of counterpart funds. Several attempts have been made to improve the
procurement procedures ever since a procurement assessment was carried out by IDA several years
ago. The most recent step forward is the approval of a decree (No. 92-059/P-CTSP) in February,
1992, which establishes the rules for public sector procurement and fixes the responsibilities of all
entities concerned in that process. This is expected to increase transparency and accelerate project
implementation. With regard to counterpart funds, a public expenditure review is planned for fiscal
year 1993 that is expected to shed some light on the process of providing sufficient counterpart funds
in a timely fashion. Nevertheless, assurances have been received that the Government will make



- 19 -
available to the project coordinator in an advance revolving fund (avance de rOgte) at the beginning
of each quarter, at least US$15,000 equivalent, to cover the cash counterpart funds needed to
coordinate the activities of the project during the following quarter. Deposit of the first quarter's
funds is also a condition of effectiveness.
F.         Disbursements
2.18       The project is expected to be completed over a 4-year period and the funds to be
disbursed over 5 years. There is a strong indication that disbursements will not lag this time horizon
as the Government wishes to proceed rapidly with its mining promotion program. The fact that the
bulk of the project is composed of technical assistance and training that will be disbursed during the
first three years of the project will also tend to speed up disbursements. The estimated disbursements
and allocation of the IDA credit are shown in Table 5.
Table 5: DISBURSEMENTS
(in US $ million equivalent)
Categgry                          Amount          % of Expenditure to be financed
Consultant services                4.00               100% of expenditures
Training                           0.50                100% of expenditures
Vehicles and equipment             0.31               100% of expenditures
Operational support                0.11                35% of expenditures
Unallocated                        1.08
TOTAL                        6.00
2.19      All disbursements of the IDA credit will be fully documented except for contracts of less
than US$20,000 equivalent which will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). The
MMHE will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications for all components. The
documentation for withdrawals under SOEs will be retained at the MMHE for review by IDA staff
during supervision missions and for regular semi-annual audits. Retroactive financing, up to a
maximum of US$150,000 equivalent, is recommended for eligible expenditures as of May 8, 1992.
2.20      To facilitate disbursement, the Government will establish a Special Account in a
commercial bank to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. An initial deposit of US$300,000
equivalent will be made available from the proceeds of the credit upon effectiveness. IDA will
replenish the Special Account upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures,
accompanied by a bank statement and reconciliation of the Special Account. Details of the
establishment and operations of the Special Account and other disbursement procedures have been
discussed and agreed upon during credit negotiations. Budgetary provision for local costs will be
inscribed in the annual operating budget of the MMHE.



- 20 -
G.         Accounting. Auditing and Relorting
2.21       The MMHE will establish and maintain, to the satisfaction of IDA, separate accounts
and records to be used exclusively for the project. Agreement has been reached on the performance
of audits by independent auditors acceptable to IDA who will audit these accounts in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles and in such detail as IDA may request. Appointment of the auditors
is a condition of credit effectiveness. In addition, the Special Account and SOEs will be audited
annually and audit reports submitted 6 months after the end of each audit period. The MMHE will
submit to IDA: (a) an annual report on progress of the project implementation; (b) annual work
programs and budgets for the following year; and (c) a project completion report within six months
of the credit closing date.
H.         Environment, Health and Safety
2.22       Artisanal mining uses very rudimentary methods that do not involve harmful chemicals,
however there are issues of miners' safety and health that need to be addressed. Large-scale
commercial mining, on the other hand, raises a broad range of environmental, health and safety issues
such as land reclamation, and waste treatment and disposal. The Syama mine uses cyanide, other
chemicals and a fluidized bed reactor that emits sulfur dioxide. IFC has, however, reviewed the
information on the operation and was able to confirm compliance with Bank guidelines. Nonetheless,
the project will finance a study to examine the environmental, health, and safety aspects of mining
and recommend protective measures. It will also help the Government institute environmental, health
and safety regulations, set standards, and train officials to monitor mine compliance and safeguard
archeological cultural property in the mining areas. A country Environmental Strategy Paper has
been completed as a first step towards a National Environmental Action Plan, which would include
actions that will be taken under this project.
I.         Benefits and Risks
2.23       The activities financed under the project will help strengthen the institutional capacity
in the country for a sector that has a promising potential. The project is expected to result in
increased foreign and local investment devoted to mining in Mali in the medium term. Available
geological information reveals that the country has the potential to produce and export much more
gold than the 4.3 tonnes it produced in 1990, provided private sector investment is forthcoming in
exploration and development. (Rougn estimates for resulting exports within the next 5 to 10 years
range from 10 to 15 tonnes of gold per year, whose value would represent 34% to 51% of Mali's
total 1990 exports.) There is also a potential for the production of diamonds. Mining could thus
become an important source of foreign exchange and tax revenue for Mali's economy. Furthermore,
helping artisanal miners could reduce poverty over a large rural population in the western and
southern regions of the country.
2.24       While the Government has made the commitment to adopt a private sector development
philosophy, an important project risk involves its implementation by sector institutions that operate
in a "government-control" mode. The project is designed to directly address this concern through
its emphasis on capacity-building by providing intensive on-the-job training and offering courses,
seminars and internships. There is also the risk that promotional efforts would not succeed in
attracting investors. The sector is known to be of interest to foreign mining companies, but several
potential investors are holding back due to lack of confidence in the policy environment and sector



- 21 -
institutions. The work on mining policy, capacity-building, and improvement of geological data will
help set the enabling environment that will lower that risk.
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.         Agreements Reached
3.1        The Government has submitted a letter expressing its commitment to support private
sector mining development (para. 1.17) (Annex 5) and a detailed training program (para. 2.5)
(Annex 7).
3.2       It was agreed during negotiations that the Government will:
(a)  identify and release all acreage where work commitments are not being fulfilled or
exploration permits have expired and to make that acreage available for exploration to
other interested parties by September 1993 (para. 1.6);
(b)  design and put into effect a transparent and competitive method for awarding exploration
and exploitation permits by January 1994 (para. 1.6);
(c)  take steps towards facilitating the acquisition of mineral rights by artisanal miners by
January 1994 (para. 1.12);
(d)  institute a scheme for retiring the excess public sector personnel in the mining sector by
September 1993, and revise and streamline the institutional structure and procedures for
the sector, rationalizing the level of personnel employed in the sector by January 1994
(para. 1.24);
(e)  provide for adequate operating budgets for the institutions after the mid-term review
(para. 1.24);
(f)  privatize the Kalana Mine (para. 1.20);
(g)  prepare environmental, health and safety regulations and norms, and implement them
by applying the norms and monitoring them by September 1994 (para. 1.12);
(I)  modify the mining code and model mining agreement to reflect the new mining sector
policy and strategy, after consultation with IDA, by January 1994 (para. 1.27);
(i)   meet yearly with IDA to define and agree on a work program and budget and to
evaluate the last's year's program, in keeping with the Supervision Plan, Annex 9 (para.
2.15);
aj)  hold a mid-term review in September 1994 (para. 2.15);
(k)  hire a long-term expert consultant to assist in project coordination for four years on a
one-year renewable contract, to be renewed subject to IDA's approval, and keep the
position of Project Coordinator filled at all times (para. 2.15);



- 22 -
(I)   deposit in an advance revolving fund (avance de regie), to be made available to the
project coordinator, at the beginning of each quarter, from its own funds, at least the
equivalent of US$15,000 to cover cash counterpart funds estimated to be required for
project coordination during the following quarter (para. 2.17); and
(m)  have audits of accounts and records performed by independent auditors, acceptable to
IDA, who will nudit these accounts in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
and to prepare a project completion report within six months of the credit closing date
(para. 2.21).
3.3         Effectiveness of this credit will be subject to the following conditions:
(a)  the signing of a contract with a long-term expert and hiring of basic support staff for
project coordination, including one bookkeeper, one secretary, one driver and one
messenger, in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.15);
(b)  the designation of appropriate counterparts for activities to be started within 6 months
of project effectiveness (para. 2.15); and
(c)  the deposit in the avance de regie of at least US$15,000 equivalent for use as
operational counterpart funds for the first quarter (para. 2.17).
(d)  the appointment of independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, who will audit the accounts
and records of the project annually (para 2.21).
B.          Recommendation
3.4         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President



rage i O0 X
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
MALI'S GEOWGICAL P ENTIAL
1.         Mali occupies a favorable geological position in that it spans the ancient West African
shield or craton. Cratons contain belts of mineralized volcanic-sedimentary rock infolded into the
granitic basement. Such belts occur in west and south Mali where gold is concentrated in the
Proterozoic (Birrimian) formations (see map--Geology). During the long history of these rocks, they
have suffered an overprint of metamorphism, shearing, and quartz veining, which has had the effect
of locally increasing the gold grade. Many gold deposits occur close to shear zones. In west Mali,
these include Loulo, Sadiola, Seroto-Saboussire and Bakolobi, with associated gold alluvials being
notable at Moralia and Sausanto (see map-Known Mineral Occurrences and Deposits). In southern
Mali, shear-related deposits occur at Syaina, Misseni, Nampala, and Darabougou. Gold concentration
is also enhanced in basal horizons of the weathered laterite, such as at Mali's only major mine,
Syama.
2.         Two additional belts of mineralized sedimentary rock in the east of the country are
favorable for gold deposits. A belt of Lower Proterozoic detrital rocks, resembling the gold- and
diamond-bearing Tarkwa formation of Ghana occurs in eastern Mali (Bourre inlier). Preliminary
work there has revealed the existence of manganese. uranium. coper. lead. and zin as well. The
Pan-African belt (Upper Proterozoic), which borders the eastern margin of the craton in the L'Adrar
des Iforas area, also carries gold and base metals.
3.         Elsewhere in Africa, the ancient cratons, such as the Zaire, Tanzania, and Kaapvaal
Cratons, are the sites of kimberlite intrusions, the primary source of diamonds. In the Kenidba
region of western Mali, a cluster of approximately 20 kimberlite pipes has been discovered, although
these have not been proven to be sufficiently diamondiferous to be economically exploitable. There
is little doubt that other clusters of kimberlites remain to be discovered in the craton further east
within Mali.
4.         The occurrence of other minerals such as lead-zinc sulphides. barytes. uranium.
phosphates. and fossil fuels (petroleum. gas. oil shale, and coal) in active and ancient rifts is well
documented. The presence of rifted and similar fault-controlled basins in eastern Mali makes these
areas highly prospective. Within the Gao Graben (rift), commercial deposits of phosphates of Eocene
age have been proven at Tamaguilelt. Lithium (spodumene) also appears to be widespread. In
addition, 1.2 billion tonnes of bauxite (aluminium) have been proven to exist in Mali but the
country's landlocked situation makes transportation costs exorbitantly expensive and the deposit not
commercially viable.
5.         Sedimentary basins normally have hydrocarbon potential; Mali has four such basins.
While the major one, the (Palaeozoic Intercratonic) Taoudeni Basin, has been explored as a result of
a previous IDA-financed project that resulted in negative findings, the Gao Graben, the Nara Graben,
and the Malian portion of the lullemeden Basin (which extends into Niger) have not been adequately
assessed.



HISTORY OF GEOLOGICAL PROSPECTION IN MALI
EXEOJT34                   DAlE                  PROSPECION                    CURRECN  VALEJ                 VALUE IN
AGENCY                                           AClVlrrY                      OF INVETMENT                   1978 CAF
D.F.I.G.                 1925-1960         Geological prospection
with 1/500 000 mapping
and some hydrogeologicaL
work                                                                 3,440
D.F.M.G.                 1955              Geological prospection
in the region of Bougouni-
Sflkasso                                                             189
D.F.M.G.                  19S5-56          Bauxite in Citadina                                                  94
D.F.M.G.                  1957-58
D.F.M.G.                  1958-59          Bauxite in West Bafing                                                55
D.F.M.G.                  1959             Bauxite in Bafoulabe                                                  18
D.F.M.G.                  1953-57          Geological prospection of the
upper Basin of Falt   (in Malf)
and survey of gold in Mddinandi                                      789
BUMIFOM                   1957-58          Prospection in Adrar des Iforas
and survey of gold-ore in Tessalit
and In Darset                              698,500 ff                250
9.F.M.G.                  1958-60          Spodumene in Bougouni                                                 75
D.F.M.G.                  1958-59          Copper in Gourme                                                      137
D.F.M.G.                  1f55-57          Kimberlites in KOnidba                     80,000,000 fCFA            650
SOIINIG e DFMG            1952-57          Manganese in Ansongo
BUMIFOM                  1959              Phosphate in Tilemsf                                                 35
D.F.M.G.                 1959              Diaionds in Fal6md                                                   28
BUMIFOM                  19f9-60           Manganese in Ansongo                       630,900 Ff                210
D.F.M.G.                  1958-59          Copper-Iron in Nioro                                                 231
B.R.G.M.                 1960              GoLd in Bago6                                                        105
B.R.G.M.                 1960              Exploration on the Mandingue                                         41
Plateau (Area of Go06)
B.R.G.M.                  1961             Diamonds on the Mandingue Plateau                                    62
B.R.G.M.                  1958-59          Copper-Iron in Nioro                       259,000 ff                86
B.R.G.M.-Reynolds         1960             Bauxite in Citadina                        277,000 FF                92
SAREPA                    1959-60          Bauxite in West Mali                       74,000,000 FCFA           497
C.E.A.                    1957-60          Uranium In West Mali and in
Adrar des Iforas
B.R.G.M.                  1960-66          Prospections from REICHELT:
geological and hydrogeological
studies in the Gourma Region               386.000 FF                85
SONAREM                  1962-65           Phosphate and oit shale in the
northern region of Gao                     2S4,574,400 FCFA          660
SAPA                     1962              Aeromagnetics on the Gao Graben
and West Basin of lullemeden
carried out for the Mali Mining
Bureau (precursor of SONAREM)              182,575,876 fCfA          563



EXEWCING                    DAIE                  PROSPECnION                   CURRENT VALUE                   VALUE IN
AOENCY                                            ACIlVlTY                      OF INVBSltiENT                  1978 CFAF
SONAREM                   1962-69           Oil prospection (Tamesna,                   3,924,436,805 FCFA        9,870
Graben Gao, Manaka, Taoudenmi)
SONAREM                   1964              Aeromagnetics for gold and
diamonds                                    174,557,160 FCFA          465
SONAREN                   1964-76           Gold and diamonds and finding
of Kalanaore                                6,081,369,339 FCFA        13,300
Selection Trust           1963-66          Dianonds in the Area of                      200,000,000 FCfA          520
Kenieba
SONAREN                   1965-67           Iron prospection .Diamou,
Bald, Djidian, Knifba)                      151,221,475 FCFA          375
SONAREN                   1964-65           Lithitn. in Bougouni                        145,542,465 FCFA          320
1971-72
SONAREM                   1964-65           Salt in Taoudenni                           12,199,600 FCFA           3
KLOCKNER                  1968              Technical and economical
study of phosphate of Tilemsi
SONAREM                   196?              Studies on construction
materials                                   890,900,206 FCfA           1,450
SONAREN                   197?              Manganese in Ansongo                        298,229,379 FCFA          298
Consortiun Uran.          1970              Attempt to search for uraniutm
CKrupp-Saar Bergwerk)
Texaco                    1970-75           Oil research in Taoudenni
Basin                                       4,000,000,000 FCFA        5,600
U.R.G.M. (FAC)            1972-74           GeneraL prospection in the
area of BougounI-Sikasso;
1st findings of Nickel and
Copper in Kadiolo                           2,000,000 FF              380
Chamo Complex             1972             Pre-feasibility for the alu-
minum industry in Mali
Sun Oil                   1972-75          Oil research (Tamesna)                      600,000 USS                450
S.R.G.M.                  1974-75           Copper in West Mali                         1,465,000 FF              198
Murphy Oil                1973-78           Oil research (Graben Gao)                   870,000 USS               600
B.R.G.M.                  1976-77           Geological study with C.G.G.
on the Iforas, 1977 mission on
uLtra-basic metals                          316,000 FF                35
B.R.G.M.                  1975              Reexamination of the gold issue
in Western Mali                            310,000 FF                 37
B.R.G.M.                  1977-78           Study in the Eastern Gourma (manganese
Ansongo, basic metals)                      742,000 FF                74
SONAREM                   1977              Gold in Kalana                              464,224,500 fCFA          510
SONAREM                   1977              Gotd in Kalana                             683,977,400 FCFA           683
P.N.C.                    1975-78          Uranium in Adrar des Iforas                 850,000,000 FCFA
in 76-77
1,200,000,000 FCFA
in 77-78                  2,230
COGEMA                    1977-78           Uranium in Central and Western              5,000,000 FF
Mali                                        (previsions)              500



DAT1h                 PROSPECTION                    CURRENT VALUE                   VALUlE IN
ACTIVIY                       OF INVESTI(ENT                   1978 CFAF
IC)           1977-78           Iron in Djidian Kenidba                      60,000,000 FCFA                   80
IC)           1978              Iron in Bale                                  100,000,000 FCFA                 100
1979              Phosphates Gao Graben
of             1977-82           Mapping; general prospecting in Adrar
Ifores
1978              Kangaba, Loulo, gold
1978              Kenieba, diamonds
1979             Oil, Gao graben
1979             Phosphates, Gao graben
1982-84           Carbonatites, I'Adrar
rid)
a S.R. +      1988              Marble, diamonds
198?             Kalana gold mine, abandoned
1983-91           Bagoe gold; S. Bougouni
(FED)         1987-89
I (FED)       1990-              ) Gold geochemistry, exploration, mapping
1986-88          Massigui gold; mappping
1989-             Gold in Kangaba and Kenieba areas
-X) *      1989-             Gold, Kakadian, W. Mali
1990-            Sadiola gold
1991-94           Bougouni gold, base metals, etc, mapping
*             1990-             Gold in Narena
1990-             Laterite gold geochemistry and petrology
1990-             Gold in Kemieba-Dialafara, U. Mali
3)            1990-             Laterite gold research
? 1989            Gold in Laulo area
pfama) +      1990-             Gold mine Syama, S. Mali gold exploration and follow-up
1991-            Katako area, S. Mali
19?              Mineral water, Bamako
1992-            Gold in Bakalobi - Mediandi area, U. Mali
rospecting permit issued
ining permit issued



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY- BUILDING PROJECT
ARTISANAL GOLD MINING
1.         Artisanal mining is a tradition that dates back to the 7th century A.D. during the Ghana,
Mali, and Songhai Empires. Today, it is a complementary source of revenue for an estimated
100,000 rural farmers who mine on a seasonal basis at more than 250 sites located in southern and
western parts of the country: (a) the Bambouck area in the Kenieba zone (74 sites): and (b) the
Bourre area in the Kangaba (80 sites), Kalana-Yanfolila (84 sites), and Bagoe-K6koro (18 sites)
zones.
2.         Artisanal mining is decreed by the Government to be an occupation exercised only
during the dry season when agriculture is not productive. The decree, however, does not need to be
enforced since the mining areas are found in the most fertile part of Malian territory and the mines
are flooded in the rainy season. In Kenieba, western Mali, however, where hard rock mining 1/
is very profitable, many miners work all year long.
3.         Artisanal mining and ore processing are conducted in a very rudimentary and traditional
manner resulting in low productivity. All except hard-rock miners in the Kenieba region use hand
picks for extracting the ore (as seen in Figure 1). In the Kenieba region, miners have acquired more
sophisticated equipment, not only because hard rock mining requires air hammers, but because the
mines fill up with water and need to be pumped constantly. The level of sophistication in mining,
however, is not matched by ore processing. The investment required to systematically crush the
quartz ore is very high, hence it is pounded by hand in metal mortar and pestles. The gold is
separated from the ore in calabasses (gourds), usirg water and hand action. In the other areas of the
country, where placers are mined, miners continue to use rudimentary handtools to dig and crush the
ore. According to the DNGM's extension agents, the lack of equipment is the greatest hindrance to
the artisanal miner's livelihood. Air compressors and pumps are the most valuable pieces of
equipment to the miners but are not readily available for purchase. There exists an important excess
demand for mining equipment in the country.
4.         Due to the poor mining practices, artisanal mining is dangerous and inefficient. Lack
of knowledge about safe mine support techniques and gallery construction makes this occupation
extremely dangerous. Although there are no records of the number of deaths due to cave-ins, it is
reported to be high. The risk of suffocation is also high due to lack of proper ventilation equipment.
At present, rats are used to determine the oxygen level in the mine. Underground artisanal gravel
mining has been estimated to be less than 50% efficient because it leaves much gold in the ground
in pillars of ore to support the galleries of underground mines. Gold separation is estimated to waste
more than 20% of the gold because the gold particles (placer mining) are too fine to be recuperated
I/   A mine that follows a vein of gold typically in quartz reefs as opposed to alluvial or eluvial
mining (often called placer mining), where the gold has been washed away from the
primary reefs and has accumulated in current or ancient river beds.



e jQ **! j>.*  ''   v* '  * t3''
FIGURE I
ARTISANAL GOLD MINING
S fi  8,.,, '> .......... ?;  ej...........IN MALI
- :i *,'0; J 
A~~~~~~
Miner carrying ore out of                 Handtool used to mine and pound
an alluvial gold mine in Kangaba.         the gold ore before processing.
4- -
Separating the gold from the ore.           A more sophisticated
hard rock mine in Keni6ba.



by the hand method or because some of the lower grade ore (hard rock mining) is not ground to
extract the gold. At present, mercury and cyanide are not being used in the artisanal gold extraction
process.
5.         The social problems usually associated with "gold rush" type artisanal mining in other
countries seem to be minimal among the artisanal miners in Mali because they are well organized
under their customary village structure and laws. Depending on the region, artisanal miners work
independently or in village groups. The traditional method of mining is in village groups led by the
placer chief (who is nominated by the village chief). In the Kenieba region, however, the traditional
ways may be either different or changing, where it is not abnormal to find individual miners who
have explored alone and made a discovery. In the Kangaba region (southern Mali), however, a miner
will not venture to explore on her/his own. The miners follow a system of customary rules
administered by local village chiefs and appointed arbitrators called tombolomas.  Artisanal
exploration is conducted under the supervision of a village elder and the process is shrouded in
mysticism. Village groups will wander as far away as one day's walk from the village to prospect
for gold. Traditional methods of discovering sites involve detecting natural occurrences that indicate
the existence of gold, such as particular trees or rocks. On average, new finds are made every three
years. During the rest of the time, artisanal miners return to old, less productive, sites. Once a site
is found, individuals dig pits, sometimes as close as 3 to 4 feet apart, aligned to follow the ancient
river bed. They pay the placer chief a fixed one-time fee per pit. If gold is found, the placer chief
receives, in the name of the village, a higher fixed fee. Anyone can join a village group on their site,
and help mine the gold they have found. No one can be refused, including migrant workers from
neighboring countries. This custom is a risk-sharing mechanism that ensures all miners some income
whether or not they have made a discovery themselves.
6.         The organization of mining is also well defined. The men extract the ore from the pit
and the women separate and recover the gold. There are many different types of occupations in the
artisanal mining industry, from the least well renumerated -- the young boy providing the
communication link between the outside of the mine and the gold digger through a pipe, to the owner
of the mine (the one who has discovered the site and/or has organized the development of the pit
mine) who receives the greatest share of the output. There are also the people who own the
equipment and rent it out, the financier, the digger, the rope puller, the ore crusher, the gold
separators, etc... There is a predetermined pay for each job, which is a fixed proportion of the ore
that is pulled out of the ground. For example, in some areas the financier receives one out of every
three bags of ore that is extracted.
7.         The traditional method of payment is risky and requires that all of the people concerned
remain around the mine to make sure that the bags they get in payment contain the most gold-bearing
ore. The gold digger, for example, is the first to be paid. He gets his pick of one piece of ore (as
big as he can carry out of the pit by hand), which he will make sure is the most laden with gold.
The output per mine is variable, with some very rich ones producing as much as 30 grams or more
a day and poor ones producing one gram per day. Grades can be extremely variable depending on
the history and location of the mine. Incomes from mining, averaged over the different regions and
occupations, are calculated very roughly to be approximately the equivlent of US$400 per worker per
season, or double the average annual per capita income in Mali.2/ In Kenieba, many women
2/ BUGECO, Etude de l'orpaillage au Mali. Burkina Faso. Niger et Senegal, March 1991.



become mine owners as they are often the ones that make the discoveries. Some amass enough
money to finance other mines. A mine in Kenieba requires approximately the equivalent of
US$1,300 for start up costs.
8.         The gold delivered to gold buyers is panned concentrate which is typically found to have
a grade of 22.7 carat. Payment is made after weighing on a small double-pan balance. The price
is 2500 CFAF per gram of gold. This price does not vary much. It is approximately 300 to 350
CFAF higher in Bamako, which accounts for the middlemen's fee and transport costs. In
comparison, the international gold market price was 3300 CFAF at the time these figures were
recorded. Hence, it appears that the artisanal gold miners are receiving a very competitive price,
taking into account that the gold is not refined. The gold market is a free market and very
competitive, even at the village level. The buyers who regularly visit the village are often agents of
larger gold merchants, both Malian and foreign. The gold may also be deposited with general village
merchants in repayment for credit received, or hoarded. Gold is used as a store of wealth, to be used
for special occasions such as weddings. Very little information is known about the amount of
hoarding or the amount of smuggling by gold buyers.
9.         The commercialization chain is not well understood either. There are three major gold
merchants in Bamako who export gold legally. They finance gold buyers in secondary cities such
as Kayes in western Mali who finance gold buyers in the remote villages such as Kenieba. The
system is ruled by a strict code of ethics that allows gold buyers to travel in safety, and which has
established a high level of trust between buyer and seller, financier and agent.
10.        Government extension agents in the artisanal mining areas are supportive of the miners
and they command great respect. However, they do noi get much support from the DNGM and
consequently are not able to provide more than basic administrative support to the miners. Extension
agents need to provide much more support in the form of technical assistance on mine operation and
methods, and health and safety precautions for miners.
11.       There is an important need for an organized local savings and credit mechanism in the
mining areas, such as local credit unions. One of the important reasons why many miners do not
have equipment is that they cannot save their earnings. There are several reasons for this. The
miner will receive credit from merchants for food and agricultural inputs. When gold is produced,
the miner will deposit it with the merchant in payment for the goods received and, if any of it
remains, for future goods. Since the miners do not keep records of the value of goods received, the
miners can often be cheated by merchants. Another reason saving is difficult is because it is
customary that, once miners make an important strike, they host a big feast where they usually spend
most of their earnings.
12.        A very important barrier to development in this industry is the legal treatment of
artisanal mining in the mining code. It currently does not allow artisanal miners to apply for mining
permits or receive legal mining title to their discoveries. Hence the miners have no negotiable
instrument capable of providing them benefits from the discovery beyond the return they receive from
their manual labor in the mine.  Since they don't have sufficient resources to develop a more
sophisticated mine in cases where the discovery may warrant a mine larger than they can mine on
their own, they cannot seek a buyer or joint venture partner as they cannot lay legal claim to the
property. Moreover, they are liable to be expelled from the property when it is granted to a legal
permit holder. There has been one case, in western Mali, where artisanal miners have requested a



permit so as to operate with the help of foreign investors. They have not been able to receive the
permit and have not been able to continue with their plans for expansion and modernization.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
THE WORLD MARKET FOR GOLD AND DIAMONDS
1.         Gold is one of the most actively traded commodities. The demand for gold is a derived
demand, driven mainly by the demand for jewelry, coins, and medallions, and by its industrial and
conmmercial use in electronics and dentistry. Gold is also hoarded, used as an investment and a hedge
against inflation. In 1990, the demand for gold in the ex-non-socialist world amounted to about 2,800
tonnes. Table 1 below gives the breakdown of gold demand for the past five years and shows that
jewelry accounted for 61 % of gold demand on average. South Africa is the largest gold producer,
accounting for between 35% and 67% of gold production in the last ten years, followed by the United
States, the former Soviet Union, Australia, and Canada. Average gold prices in the last five years
have dropped dramatically from a high of US $450/oz. in 1988 to a low of about US $350/oz., the
prevailing gold price in 1992.
Table 1: DEMAND FOR GOLD IN THE EX-NON-SOCIALIST WORLD 1/
(in tonnes)
Usage         J   1986 1  1987 1  1988   1989    1990
Jewelry           1,154   1,197   1,515   1,874    1,986
Electronics         123     124    133    137       143
Official Sector     145      72    285        -      40
Bar Hoarding        214    259    461    515        236
Investment          127    231        -       -     144
Other               468    323    258    268        252
Total             2,231  2,206   2,651  2,793    2,799]
Souce: Goldfields Mineral Sources Ltd, 1991.
2.         The near-term outlook for the gold market hinges on many parameters, including the
Commonwealth of Independent States' (CIS) economic problems and reserve position, and a decrease
in worldwide gold exploration and production. A disaster in the CIS harvests would result in more
food imports and hence a need for foreign exchange, which might trigger a distress sale of gold.
However, Russia is reported to have sold 500 tonnes of gold bullion in 1991 (about 28 percent of
I/   Formal statistics from this source do not include the ex-Eastem Bloc countries' demand for
gold, possibly for lack of reliable data.



world production) and it is not believed to be in a position to do it again. Exploration for new gold
mines has decreased because of low gold prices. At the prevailing gold price of US$350/oz., close
to 40% of South Africa's gold production is uneconomic, and new low-cost mines are not being
developed rapidly enough to affect new mine supply. If gold prices were to increase markedly, mine
production would respond, but with a significant lag. While forward sales tend to depress the
market, all the fundamentals (i.e. increasing jewelry use, mine closings and a relatively low
exploration effort) point to a firmness of the price. The latest World Bank (May 1992) gold price
projections indicate that the price will be increasing from an average of US$345/oz. in 1992 to
US$393/oz. in 1995.
Diamonds
3.         Since the early 1980s, rough diamond production has nearly doubled to reach more than
100 million carats, as shown in Table 2. Diamonds are classified as either gems, near-gems, or
industrial diamonds. Gem diamonds are valued at roughly 10 times near-gems per carat, and near-
gems are valued at roughly 10 times industrial diamonds per carat. Gems account for over 85% of
the value of all diamonds produced (natural or synthetic) while they represent only 15% of the carats
produced. Prices range from one dollar (US) per carat for industrial diamonds to hundreds of
thousands of dollars per carat for the highest quality gems.
Table 2: DEMAND AND SUPPLY OF GEM DIAMONDS
(in mions of carats)
1980     1987    _1990      2000
|est.      est.
World Production    48.0     94.9    101.3      112.6
of Rough Diamonds
Gem production      11.0     13.8      14.8      18.3
Demand for Jewelry   7.5     13.3       -         -
Demand for Jewelry  18.6     30.0     43.0       46.9
(in billions of US$)
CSO Sales of Rough   2.8      3.0      4.2       4.5
Gem Diamonds
(in billions of US$)
Sources:   Anderson, Wilson & Paitnelr, Inc. De Beers,
October 1991 and Johnson, Marriott and von
Saldem, "World Diamond Industry: 1970-2000,"
Natural Resources Forum, May 1989.
4.         The demand for gem diamonds depends greatly on jewelry demand, which amounted
to 13.3 million carats or US$30 billion in 1987. The largest market is in the United States, which



accounted for 38% of world diamond jewelry sales in 1987, but the annual growth in that market,
5%, is expected to be outpaced by the Asian market (expected 8% annual growth), where Japan leads
with a 17% share of the demand market.
5.         Commercial deposits of diarnonds are found in 20 countries. Of these, only 5 countries-
Australia, Botswana, South Africa, the former Soviet Union, and Zaire account for over 94% of
world production in terms of volume. In terms of value, Botswana, South Africa and the former
Soviet Union are the most important producers. Synthetic diamonds have created competition in the
industrial diamond market and kept prices low. They now account for over 80% of the estimated
annual world production of approximately 250 million carats of industrial diamonds.
6.         The diamond cartel is the most effective cartel in the minerals industry, controlling the
price and supply of diamonds. It is run by De Beers Consolidated Diamond Mines' Central Selling
Organisation (CSO), which is widely reported to control 80 - 85% of world rough gem diamond
sales. This is based on production from its own mines (producing 8 million carats in 1990) and
voluntary sales agreements made with diamond-producing countries, including the former Soviet
Union, Botswana, Zaire, Australia, Tanzania, Namibia, and South Africa. The market is assured for
most any gem or near-gem diamond from the viewpoint of a producer since the CSO provides high
and stable prices and will offer a steady demand for a producer who signs a marketing agreement.
By all indications, diamond production is expected to increase in the medium term. In a competitive
market, this would signal lower prices. However, the cartel's pricing strategy has resulted in rising
diamond prices in constant dollars over the long term. The cartel keeps a very large stockpile of gem
diamonds in order to adjust supply with demand of the many categories of diamonds and to stabilize
prices. Accordingly, diamond prices in real terms have increased between 1.6% and 2.5% per year
since 1960 and are expected to continue to grow in this fashion.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
LEITER OF MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
REPU3WLIOE  U MALI
UN PEUPLE - UN BUT - UNE FOI
LES MINISTRRS: - de 1'Economie et des Finances
- du Budget
- des Mines, de l'Hydraulique
et de l'Energie
A Monsieur A.M. Lewis PRESTON
President de la Banque Mondiale
WASHINGTON D.C.
OBJET: DWveloppement du Secteur Priv6
au Mali - Projet d'Assistance
du Secteur Minier.
Monsieur le President,
Le Gouvernement de la Republique du Mali a entrepris, depuis 1984, un vaste
programme de reformes economiques base essentiellement sur le Programme
d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS). Ces reformes ont pour objectif de reduire la
taille du secteur public et son domaine d'intervention a des activites
strategiques en donnant une place de choix au secteur prive.
Cette volonte s'est manifestee dans le domaine minier par l'adoption en
Juillet 1991 d'un nouveau code minier et d'une convention d'etablissement
type comportant des dispositions fiscales et douanieres incitatives pour
encourager l'investissement prive national ou 6tranger.
Le Gouvernement a pris l'engagement ferme de mettre en application les
dispositions du code minier en vigueur en particulier les dispositions
fiscales qui y sont inclues pour attirer davantage de societes privees.
En ce qui concerne la societe de Gestion des mines d'or de Kalana
(SOGEMORK), elle a ete dissoute et i'Etat a pris toutes les dispositions
pour vendre la mine des que possible.



.Loa=J .,A. J
Le Gouvernement prend l'engagement de proceder dans l'ensemble du secteur minier
(DNGM, PDRM, SONAREM) a la modernisation, le restructuration de l'administration
et a la reduction du personnel dans le cadre du present projet dont les conclusions
determineront les actions a entreprendre.
En ce qui concerne l'orpaillage, le Gouvernement s'engage & appliquer les disposi-
tions du code minier afin de donner a toute personne ou entite, physique ou morale
le possibilite d'acquerir un titre minier. Le present projet entreprendra une
etude tres approfondie de cette branche d'activite afin de deterniner la maniere
et les procedures pour mettre cette politique en vigueur vis-A-vis des orpailleurs.
En esperant sur un prompt demarrage de ce projet capital pour le developpement
du secteur prive minier, nous vous prions de croire, Monsieur le President, A
l'expression de notreZtres haute consideration.
Bamako, le 0 4 MAi 1992
c~ '~' ~TRE DES MINES, DE                  NI   E DU          LE MINISTRE DE
7; ;c7\9~        'QUE ET DE                                         L'ECONOMIE ET DES
LEN                                                         FN
LE                    SOCUE         ~~~~~~assar  T d~



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
MALI'S MINING TAX REGIME
The fiscal regime fixed by the new code is described in detail in Figure 1.   There
remain some issues that . ill need to be adjusted, as stated in the main text. They are, among others:
(a)  In comparison with those of other countries, the mining tax regime in Mali gives
unecessary tax breaks--a 5-year tax holiday and 27.5% depletion allowance--while it
overtaxes gold production through the extremely high combined royalty and production
tax rate;
(b)  there are ambiguities that cannot be firmly clarified by the legal documents or the
authorities on such points as the dividend withholding tax exemption and the
determination of accelerated depreciation rates; and
(c)  the code is not internally consistent with respect to fiscal matters nor is it consistent and
cross-referenced with the model agreement, its accompanying regulations, Mali's
general tax code, the customs code, or the international agreements to which Mali is a
signatory.
The proposed Project aims to bring these issues to light and help provide assistance to
the Government to improve the competitive position of its mining tax regime.



Figure 1: Features of Mining Tax Legislation in Mali
Income Tax                    ImpOt sur les Bnefices Industniels et Commerciaux (BIC):
45% of gross income. Can be negotiated if profits are
reinvested.
Exemptions/Deductions:         All pre-production (non-capital) costs can be capitalized or
Exploration and              amortized over 10 years or minelife, whichever is shorter.
Development Allowance        Accelerated amortization is allowed and each firm can
chose its own method, but this must be negotiated.
Capital                      Capital expenditures can be depreciated as stated above.
Depreciation                 There is mention of depreciation schedules found in the
arr&tt interministdriel No. 236 MF-MDITP of
January 23, 1975.
Depletion                    27.5% of ex-mine value up to 50% of profit, which
Allowance                    needs to be spent on new investment within 5 years
otherwise added back to income after the 5-year period
Tax Holiday                  Tax holiday from the BIC through the fifth year of
production
Headquarters                 Can be deducted up to 2% of sales
Management
Fee
Interest Deduction           Limits on interest deduction to Libor plus 2%
Deduction for                All taxes and duties including the land rents are
Taxes Paid                   deductible for income tax purposes
Deduction for                All TA provided by the company will be deductible for
TA Provided                  income tax purposes
Loss Carryover               Losses may be carried over for 5 years.
Dividend Withholding Tax       9% for the first three years and 18% for the remaining
years. Neither the tax nor its exoneration is mentioned
in the Mining Code or in the Model Agreement, but it
exists in Mali's general tax code.
Free Equity for the            10% minimum, can vary to 20% maximum in mining
Government                     code



Figure 1 (Continued)                              ]
Royalty                       Ad valorem tax of 3%. No exemption allowed.
Production Tax                Contribution pour Prestation de Services (CPS): 3% of
ex-mine value-paid at the point of export (effective
export tax); is levied at 5% on imports (this tax was
supposed to be replaced by the TVA but it is still levied)
No exemption allowed.
Import Duties                 Droits de Douane (customs duty)-5%
Droit Fiscal d'Importations (import duty)--15% or 30% 
Prelevement Communautaire de Solidarite (PCS--
communal charge)-1 %
Import taxes on fuel used in the production of energy for
the mine and processing plant are exonerated.
Exemption from all import duties until year 5 of
production. Exemption thereafter only for equipment,
materials, and supplies used for modifying or extending
the mine. Import duties on all non-mining related
imports must be paid in foreign exchange.
Sales Tax                     Taxes sur la Valeur Ajout6e (IVA-Value added tax on
goods) of 10% or 17% depending on the sector. Mining
sector falls under the 10% rate. This tax affects all
imports as well as domestically bought goods. Exemption
through year 3 of production.
Taxe sur les Prestations de Services (TPS-value added
tax on services)-7% or 15%. Choice between the two
rates is negotiated by agreement. Exemption through year
3 of production.
Petroleum products sales tax is exempted on products
used for the production of energy (excludes
transportation fuels).
License Fees                  Prospecting licenses and their renewal cost
300,000 CFAF (US $1076) for both large and small
mines. Exploitation licenses cost 1 million CFAF (US
$3588) for large mines and 700,000 CFAF (US $2511)
for small mines.
Land Rental                   Exploration: 50 CFAF (US$0.18) per km2 per year for
the initial period; 100 CFAF (US$0.36) per km2 per year
for the first renewal; 200 CFAF (US$0.72) per km2 per
year for the second renewal.
Exploitation: 50,000 CFAF (US$179) per km2



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACrIY-BUILING PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
1.        The Government of Mali has submitted a training plan (attached) which it intends
to implement within the scope of the proposed project. This training plan is appropriate to the
goals of the project and is addressed in the project description in para. 2.5.
2.        Training will be provided on-the-job through the consulting contracts as well as
through internships and courses, both in-country and abroad, organized by a consulting
educational institution or firm specializing in mining education. The following presents the
service delivery methods for the training of Malians in the mining sector.
3.        The on-the-job training will include the following:
(a)  The management consultancy will work with local officials on each of the policy
studies, providing them with experience in techniques of economic, financiaL
anthropological and organizational management work.
(b)  The expert panelists, who will attend the workshops, will prepare short seminars
before the discussions take place on the policy options. These seminars will be open
to all of the workshop attendees, a wide variety of Government officials and private
participants. The topics include: mine operational costs and economics, mine finance
and taxation, environmental legislation and monitoring, organizational management
and various other areas of public poliy.
(c)  Several lawyers from the MMHE, the Ministry of Economics and Finance, and the
Ministry of the Budget will be trained in writing policy statements and organizing a
strategy when working with the consultants on the drafting of the Policy and Strategy
Paper and in drafting legal documents during the implementation of the legal
reform.
(d)  During the implementation of the institutional reform, the consultants will train the
staff of the new institutions on the use of new procedures of operation.
(e) Five geologists from the DNGM will be trained in geological data manipulation,
GIS-based data synthesis and thematic mapping when they will work closely with the
geological data consultancy. They will be trained not only in Mali but also at the
consultants' headquarters, using the consultants' computer facilities and software.
Other geologists will be trained in Mali to digitize geochemical data and produce
mineral anomaly maps
(f)  Geologists will be trained as bibliographic data-entiy specialists to work on recording
the documentation center's information and the DNGM staff will be trained to use
the information system set up at the documentation center.



(g)  Two DNGM officials responsible for investment promotion will be trained on-the-
job by the promotion consultants on how to understand the international minerals
markets by reading the industry journals; how to know prospective investors and
their market strategies by reading their annual reports; how to approach and keep
in contact with representatives of the industry-, and how to get information on the
industry and its players from key contacts. They will be accompanied by the
consultants to international mining conferences, learn how to make promotional
presentations there, and how to folow up contacts made at the conferences.
4.        A consulting educational institution or firm will organize a series of internships and
courses abroad and in-country for mining sector Government officials, including:
(a)  A negotiation seminar will be held in-country for one week, once a year for two
consecutive years. This seminar is meant to benefit the negotiations/mineral
commission that will be responsible for dealing with foreign investors and negotiating
exploration and exploitation agreements with them.
(b)  Several managerial geologists from the DNGM  will be sent on three-month
internships in large mining companies to learn mine mment, metallurgy and
technolg, and eninmental safeguards  This internship program would be
initially organized by the consultants but will be later managed and directed by the
DNGM so that it may continue past the life of the project.
(c) The consultants will organize another internship program that will place geologists,
who will later be extension workers, into small mines in countries with small-scale
mining such as Zimbabwe, Chile, or Mexico so that they may learn small-scale mine
operation, and appropriate minin and processing technology. This program would
also be managed in its later stages by the DNGM and sustained past the life of the
project.
(d)  The consultants will identify and/or organize courses at a mining college or university
abroad on        nl regplations, norm-tz4 an monitoring mine safety and
safeguarding mie worker health for the officials of the DNGM who will be
responsible for monitoring environment, health and safety in the mining sector and
in mining operatios, metallury, mine       and minin tco    for the
geologists of the DNGM. These courses will be preceded by short-term language
training to prepare the trainees in cases where the courses are not being taught in
French.
(e) The consultants will hire professors and experts to teach the trainers at the local
college for geologists in Bamako so that they may create new courses in mineral
economics and finance for officials concerned with mining taxation from the Ministry
of Economy and Fmance, the Ministry of the Budget as well as the MMHE.
Courses will also be taught at an appropriate institution on surveying techniques for
archeological sites found in mining areas.



MINISTERE DES KINE , DE                               REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
L I MIRAUL!TWE  T ul L'Ina;u E                  Un Peuple - Un But * Une Foi
DIRECTION NATIONAL  DE                                            ANNEX 7
LA GEOLOGIE ET DES MWNES                                      Page 3 of 4
PROGRAM   OS  PORNATION  DB  IA
DXRM  NWATIONALK DS LA GIOLOCIE ST DUS KOM
(R#publlque du WALI)
La Direc ion Nationale do ls GCologie et de Mines poseede
beaucoup do cadr   competent. done les domaines de l'exploration Mini6re
et do la cartogr phis gibologlque de terrain, male dont lee connaiusances
dans d'autres dom ines restent limit#00,
A cot stfet,  la Direction sQiamh^eto prnrcAdrnr A VO formitiono
compl4mentaires di sea agents 4gng 1am dnmu1nfv Rlvrnte-
- formati n dens lee proc6dures de n6gociations;
- formati n dan  le domains "Business development";
- formati n dans le domaine do 1 gestion et 6conomie miniCre;
- formati n dans le domain. de 1'Economle ot finances de proJets
Miniers;
- formati   dans le domaine di la promotion minibre;
- stage d formation pratique dane lee petite. mines d'or:
a en g6ologie et 6valuation des placers;
b  en technique d'exploitation miniire & petite 6chelle;
- stage ot formation pratique on exploitation par mystUme de
Dragues pour le raitement des alluvions aurifi'res des lit. do coure
d'eau;
. stage de formation dan le traitement des d6chete d'orpaillago;
- stage   our  inspectours  de mines  pour  l'application de la
riglementation tou hant:
a) lenvironnement des secteurs miniers faisant l'objet
d'exploitation min 6r;
b) la eanti our lee sites en exploitation et lee placers;
c) la uacurit4 dan. lee mines et autour doe chsntiere
miniere;



- stage en artographie g6ologique aGeiotec d'erdinateur:
- stag. on raitement informatique des donn.es g6ochimiques;
- formation dans la domaine de Is conception et pratique de ' a
dou1mtn tr tt nn alitom tique;
- initiatio & I'informatique: saisie et encodage;
- exploitat on banques de donn6es informatiques;
- organisat on et goetion du laboratoire;
- perfectio inemnt dans lee techniques a&alytiques, absorption
atomique, ZCP, fusi n plombeuse, mise en solution des 6chantiallons;
- analysee p6troli4rea (ossais normalisA. et 6tabliesement do
bilan de sant6 moteur et industrie);
- maintenan   des appareile de laboratoire.



ANNEX 8
REPUBLIC OF MALI                               Page 1 of 2
MINING biiCl OR CAPACMTY-BUILDING PROJECT
PROJECT ACTIYITY TIMETABLE
ACTIVITY                                     YEAR 1  YEAR 2        YEAR 3       YEAR 4
POLICY STUDIES
1. Role of the State and
the Private Sector                      _
2. Comparative Mming Costs                 _
3. International Tax Comparison
4. Artisanal/local mining
5. Enviromment, Health and Safety           -
6. Institutional Restructuring
WORKSHOPS
1. General Mining Policy Issues
2. International Tax Comparison               v
3. Development of Local Mining/
Mineral Rights for Artisanal Mining           v
4. Environment, Health and Safety               v
5. Institutional Restructuring                  v
POLICY AND STRATEGY PAPER
1. Committee Meetings
2. Defining a Consensus
3. Consultation with IDA
4. Drafting the Document                              -
5. Policy and Strategy Paper
INSITUTMONAL REFORM
1. Agreement on Definition
of Reforms
2. Consultation with IDA
3. Reconfiguration of Institutions           _
4. Definition of now Procedures
5. Implementation of New Procedures
6. Reorganization of Personnel
7. Retirement of Personnel
8. Provision of new Budgets
LEGAL REFORM
1. Agreement on Definition
of Revisions
2. Consultation with IDA
3. Drafting New Documents
4. Signing Double Taxation Treaties
5. New Texts Revised



Page 2 of 2
PROJECT ACTIVITY TIMETABLE-lContinued)
ACTIVlTY                                    YEAR I  YEAR2         YEAR 3       YEAR4
PRIVATIZATION OF PEs
1. Kalana Gold Mine
a. Due Diligence/Audit
b. Promotion or bidding 
c. Sale and Grant of Mining Title e
d. Retirement of Debt and Personnel
2. Tilemsi Phosphates
3. Mali Marbres
4. Eaux Min6rales du Mali
TRAINING
1. Negotiations Seminar In-Country           v          v
2. Intermships Abroad--Mine Mgmt.,
Metallurgy and Technology                   -
3. Internships Abroad--Small Mine
Operation and Technology                    -
4. Short-term courses Abroad
5. Short Term Courses In-Country--
Economics/Finance of Projects                _
Env. Monitoring, Mine Safety
Surveying Archeological
Cultural Property                            -       -
IMPROVEMENT OF GEOLOGICAL
INFORMATION
1. Phase 1: Regional Data
Synthesis and GIS Mapping                -
2. Phase 2: Country-wide Mapping                                                 -
3. Improvement of Documentation
Center                                     m                                   -
INVESTMENT PROMOTION
1. Preparation of Promotional
Materials
2. Promoting Specific Properties
3. Promotional Campaigns                                             -
4. Mining Conference in Mali
5. Related Industries Study



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
A. BANK SUPERVISION INPUT
1.        Bank staff supervision will require the following supervision activities:
a)   Two missions effected by the task manager and a mining specialist each year, consisting
of a yearly program evaluation and planning for the next year, and one regular
supervision mission including possibly a consultant or a lawyer, depending on the
progress of the project. In addition to supervising compliance with covenants, the
missions will be geared for particular purposes detailed with their estimated schedule
in Table 1;
(b)  Frequent communications with the project coordinator and regular supervision
requirements to review progress reports, procurement and disbursement issues;
(c)  Joint preparation with the Government of a mid-term review in September 1994; and
(d)  Finalization of the Project Completion Report.
B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO SUPERVISION
2.         The Borrower and the MMHE (through the DNGM) will be responsible for the
following:
(a)   To monitor and coordfiate the day to day progress of the project activities and liaise
between the Govermnent of Mali and IDA on all matters concerning the project;
(b)  To prepare progress reports twice yearly, at the end of January and July and a mid-tem
review in September 1994 jo&ntly with IDA;
(c)   To prepare a yearly activity plan and attend yearly progress review and project planning
meetings to discuss and agree with IDA on the future year's plan and budget;
(d)  To have audits of accounts and records performed by independent auditors and submit
them to IDA no later than June 30 of each year;
(e)   To coordinate and brief IDA supervision missions; and
(t)   To prepare the Project Completion Report.



Table 1: IDA SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Approx.      Purpose                                 Skill Requirements     Staff-
date                                                                        weeks
September    Launching seminar; Supervision of      Task manager               2
1992         accounting systems and of start-up     Financial analyst          1
activities, including the privatization of  Mining specialist     1
Kalana                                                                l
June 1993    Attend workshops; Consult with policy   Task manager              2
planning committees and legal reform   Lawyer                     1
consultants
September    Hold annual planning meeting; Supervise    Task manager           2
1993        the improvement of the geological data,  Mining specialist         1
the documentation center, the startup of
the training and promotional activities
January      Consult on policy concensus and legal   Task manager              2
1994        reforms; Attend negotiations seminar;   Mining specialist          2
and Supervise the start-up of institutional   Lawyer              1
restructuring
September    Hold annual planning meeting and hold  Task manager               2
1994         mid-term review of project progress    Mining specialist          2
Consulting geologist      3
January      Supervise on-going training, geological  Task manager             2
1995         work, institutional reform, and the    Mining specialist          2
preparation of the mining conference                                  l
September    Hold annual planning meeting; Attend   Task manager               2
1995         mining conference                      Mining specialist          1
January      Supervise finalization of work on       Task manager              2
1996         geological data and the documentation  Mining specialist          2
center, and the establishment of in-house
training and promotional capabilities
September    Project completion meeting and         Task manager               2
1996         production of project completion report  Mining specialist        1



Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION CONTRACTS
LEVEL OF EFFORT
(in person months)
Expatriates*      Counterparts
1. MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY CONTRACT
ANALYSIS OF POLICY ALTERNATIVES
Role of the State/PS Study
Regulatory expert                             1                  3
Comparative Cost Study
Mineral economist                             2                  3
Comparative Tax Study
Tax expert                                    2                  3
Artisanal Miting Study
Anthropologist                                6
Mineral economist                             2
Mining lawyer                                 1
Artisanal mining experts                                        24
Environment, Health and Safety Study
Environment and mining expert                 2                 12
Institutional Structure Study
Management consultants                        3                 12
Technical Audits for Prisatizations
Mineral economist                             1
Geologist/metallurgist                        2                 12
POLICY DELIBERATIONS/WORKSHOPS
Tax experts and industry reps                  1                 2
Mining policy experts and industry reps       1                  2
Artisanal mining experts                      1                  2
Environment and mining experts                1                  2
Workshop organization                                            4
POLICY FORMULATION
Mineral economist                             3                  3
INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING
Long term management expert                  20
Negotiations procedure expert                 3
Local consultants                                               24
LEGISLATIVE REFORM
Mining/env/tax lawyer                         6                 12
TOTAL LEVEL OF EFFORT
ar  s                                   . ;........ : . ... '
Note: * To be financed under the project by IDA.



ANNEX 10
IMPLEMENTATION CONTRACTS (Continued)                            Page 2 of 3
LEVEL OF EFFORT
(in perso mondhs)
Expatriates*      Counterparts
2. GEOLOGICAL DATA SYNTHESIS AND MAPPING
PHASE 1
Regional geological data synthesis (S & SW Mali)
Field geologists and geological data speci  72
Subcontract to team of local geologists                      180 *
Improvement of Documentation Center
Long-term data specialist/geologist         12
Local consultants--data entry                                 120
PHASE 1 LEVEL OF EFFORT
PHASE 2 (1)
Geological thematic mapping/data synthesis countrywide
Team of geological data experts             60
One resident expert                         24
Trainees                                                      120
PHASE 2 LEVEL OF EFFORT
3. INVESTMENT PROMOTION
Promotional materials
Promotional consultants                      2                 2
Investment promotion campaign
Promotional consultants                     15
Public relations consultant                                    6
Trainees                                                      24
Drawing up agreements with investors
Lawyers                                      5                 5
Related industries promotion
Mineral economist                            1                  1
Metallurgist                                 1                  1
TOTAL LEVEL OF EFFORT
Note: e To be finaced under the project by DA.
(1)   Although Phase 2 is an extedsion of Phse 1, it will be contracted sepaately.
Its scope and extent of work will be dependet oan the ensults of Phase 1.



ANNEX 10
IMPLEMENTATION CONTRACTS (Continued)                            Page 3 of 3
LEVEL OF EFFORT
(in peaon mondS)
Expatriates*      Counterparts
4. TRAIING MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
In-country seminars: economics and finance           20
of mining, negotiating skills
Local professors/trainers                                              12
Short term courses in mining abroad (mgmt time)       6
Internships (mgmt time)                               6
TOTAL LEVEL OF EFFORT
5. LONG-TERM ASSISTANCE TO MgMHE CONTRACT
Long-term expert consultant                                            48 *(2)
TOTAL LEVEL OF EFFORT
=|X ;.~.__
OTHER CONTRACTS
Quick response, short term consulting                             12
Note: * To be finced under the project by IDA.
(2) 4-yr cawutacy on a 1-yr renwable ccntmct



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINNG SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY-POLICY AND STRATEGY COMPONENT
A.         BACKGROUND
1.        The Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy (MMHE), which is responsible for the
sector through its Direction Nationale de la Geologie et des Mines (DNGM), is committed to taking
vigorous actions to stimulate private investment in the sector, but it operates with no policies or
strategy to guide it. Mining in Mali is governed by a mining code initially adopted in 1970. It has
been revised and the changes have been promulgated in 1991 as part of a policy improvement
package supported, under a structural adjustment program, by IDA and other donors. However, the
mining code still has a number of drawbacks, and will need some further adjustments.
2.         The overall responsibility for the mining sector lies with the MMHE and four
institutions/public enterprises reporting to it. The institutional structure is characterized by entities
that tend to evolve with the flow of donor aid that finances exploration activity in the sector. New
entities have been created without dismantling old ones. The functions and responsibilities of the
institutions overlap, and are redundant and outdated in the current environment of economic
liberalization. In addition, conflicts of interest arise between administrative and operational functions,
and procedures lack transparency and effectiveness. The staff is neither experienced in- nor equipped
for- promoting investment, monitoring mining activity, or providing local investors with technical
support.
3.         The project would provide consultancy services to help the Government carry out the
design and implementation of a mining sector policy and strategy; that is, to assist the Government
to redefine its role in the sector, the role of foreign investment, and the role of the local miners and
to ensure adequate environmental, health, and safety measures for the sector. This work would also
assist the Government in defining a strategy consistent with its policy decisions. The strategy would
determine: (a) how and how much the Government will share in the wealth derived from mineral
extraction; (b) the rights and obligations of foreign and local investors; and (c) how the Government
would safeguard that the rules of the game are upheld. The consultancy would also assist the
Government in implementing the strategy through: (a) restructuring the institutions and their
procedures; (b) improving the mining law and regulations; and (c) planning the privatization of state
mining enterprises.
B.         WORK PROGRAM
4.         To implement the Policy and Strategy Component of the project, the consultants will
perform the following tasks:



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 21
Analysis of Policy Alternatives. Six studies would be undertaken to provide the
background information on policy alternatives and serve as a basis for policy
formulation. They would also pay particular attention to identifying barriers to entry
of private capital in the mining sector. The consultants will work with Malian
counterparts on all of the studies. The studies would involve the following topics: the
policy and legislative implication of a reduced Government role and of a greater private
sector participation in mining; revision of the sector's institutional structure and
procedures; international mining cost competitiveness; international comparative mining
tax regimes; artisanal mining/local industry development; and health, safety, and the
environment.
(i)    As a result of the roles of Government and private sector study, alternative
policies and their attendant laws and regulations defining the relationship
between the state and the private sector in the business of mining would
be presented and assessed.
(ii)    The second study would deal with restructuring the institutions of the
mining sector, in particular the MMHE, the DNGM, the PDRM, and
SONAREM. The objective is to define a more efficient and less costly
institutional framework that can be more appropriate to the development
of mining activities. It is particularly important to clearly define the role
of each institution, separating the different functions, and to define their
procedures and norms to avoid conflicts of interest relating to:
e    administration of mining permits and land management,
*    production and storage of geological information,
*    investment promotion,
*    provision of commercial drilling services,
*    managing the state's participation shares in joint ventures,
*    assisting and negotiating with mining investors, and
*    providing extension services to artisanal miners.
It would also be important to determine: an appropriate level for the
operating budgets and their sources of financing; the number and
qualifications of personnel needed; and the relations among institutions.
(iii)   As part of the international mining cost competitiveness study the cost
structure of mining in Mali would be compared to that of other countries
in the Sahel region as well as to that of other gold mining countries
around the world.
(iv)    The international comparative tax study would involve the comparison of
the fiscal regimes of countries offering investment opportunities
comparable to those of Mali's mining sector. The effective tax burden
currently implied by Mali's mining tax regime (for gold, diamonds, and
base metals) would be compared to that of the other countries, and the
pros and cons of the tax instruments used would be analyzed. As part of



this study, the mining code's tax regime would be "harmonized" with the
general tax code, the customs code and any international commercial
agreements to which Mali is a signatory.
(v)     Work done under the artisanal mining/local industry development study
would assist in determining how a local small- and medium-scale gold
mining industry can be developed on the basis of local investment funds,
a free local mineral rights market, and artisanal miners' experience and
gold discoveries. It would provide information on the traditional socio-
economic structure of artisanal mining geared toward designing a legal
entity that can preserve its important features and yet be recognized by
Mali's legal code. It would also research and propose the type of mineral
rights that can be granted to this legal entity of local miners that will both
attract investment to those operations and be feasible from an
administrative and legal point of view.
(vi)    The sixth study would involve the institution of environmental safeguards
and the development of environmental criteria for the mining sector. The
study would involve an assessment of the current mining activity's impact
on the environment, on the health and security of the miners, and on the
country's archeological cultural property. Recommendations would be
made on the types of environmental regulations and norms that should be
put into effect and the appropriate methods for monitoring them. It would
also recommend a program of surveying and protection of the
archeological sites found in mining areas.
(b)  Policy Deliberations. Following the completion of the studies, the consultants would
organize and conduct workshops where the main aspects of a mining policy and strategy
(mainly the topics researched in the studies) are initially explained by experts in the
field to workshop attendees and then discussed. This process would approximate is the
customary method of evaluating policy options and creating the consensus needed for
effective and lasting policy change within the Malian context, the itats gbneraux. The
workshops would include expert panelists, such as representatives of different mining
companies, geologists, mining lawyers and mineral economists from various mining
countries of the world, including other African countries with important mining
experience and IDA. Representatives of the concerned Ministries and interested local
leaders would be invited to participate. The expert panelists, who will attend the
workshops, will prepare short seminars before the discussions take place on the policy
options. These seminars will be open to all of the workshop attendees. A first
workshop would concern the general issues regarding mining policy and stratey-the
relative roles of the state, foreign investors, and the local industry; and the competitive
position of Mali's mining sector vis-a-vis the international mining industry. In the
second workshop, the mining taxation workshop, the results of the comparative tax
study would be discussed with mining taxation experts. Issues of alternative taxation
schemes, which affect foreign as well as local investors, would be discussed. The third
workshop would involve the development of artisanal mining as the basis for a local
mining industry. It would be based on the results of the study and would involve a
discussion of the alternative ways to grant mineral rights to artisanal miners, the



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 21
creation of a local mining title market, and the alternative ways to attract local
investment in mining.   A  fourth workshop would deal with mining-related
environmental, health. and safety issues. The discussions would center on the measures
to be taken to minimize environmental damage, and health and safety risks of miners.
Environmental experts and representatives of NGO's would be invited to discuss the
results of the study.
(c)   Policy and Strategy Paper. The consultants would organize committees among the
MMHE and the other government ministries concerned to bring the workshop
discussions to fruition and to define a consensus. Each committee would be charged
with detailing the strategy and implementation plan for one of the subjects debated in
the workshops. The consultants will help Government lawyers write a policy and
strategy paper, clearly defining the consensus reached in the process of formulating
mining sector policy and strategy at the workshops and subsequent government meetings
held for that purpose. This activity would lay the foundation for the process of
translating this statement into laws and regulations and to begin implementing the
strategy.
(d)  Institutional Reform. The consultants would assist the MMHE in putting into place
an appropriate structure for the sector institutions and in revising their procedures.
Their work would be based on the Government's policy and strategy declaration and the
results of the institutional structure study, on which IDA will have been consulted. The
aim of the restructuring would be to increase the efficiency of the institutions by
establishing a clear mandate for each institution, reducing conflicts of interests and
improving the flow of information among and between the institutions.  The
reorganization would touch on the various functions of the sector institutions: (a)
commercial prospecting and drilling services; (b) investment promotion and analysis of
industry trends; (c) project economics, finance and taxation; (d) legal services; (e)
mining administration, including mining permit and land management; (f) extension
services to artisanal miners; (g) geological survey activities; (h) safeguarding miners'
health, mine safety, and the environment; and (i) negotiating with investors. This
reorganization will also establish the size of each institution and determine which staff
are retained and which are retrenched. It is also proposed that: (a) the institutions be
provided with an adequate operating budget; (b) a voluntary retirement scheme be
adopted and funded for staff who cannot be absorbed in the new structure of the
institutions; (c) a transparent and fair method of awarding mining permits be instituted;
(d) a negotiating procedure be defined to simplify and standardize all negotiations with
potential mining investors; and (e) possibly that a "guichet unique" be instituted to
simplify the acquisition of exploration permits. It is extremely important that the
restructuring strengthen the coordinating offices that determine the relationship between
the institutions concerned with the mining sector, in particular, the mining offices of the
Ministry of the Budget and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the finance
office of the MMHE.
(e)   Privatization of Public Enterprises. In addition, the consultants would help the
Government sell or close the Kalana mine (SOGEMORK) and the Tilemsi Phosphate
mine (SEPT S.A.), and possibly the other holdings of SONAREM, i.e., Mali Marbres
and Eaux Mindrales du Mali. The consultants would synthesize the existing information



and supplement it as needed so that a full technical and economic evaluation (a "due
diligence" study) is available on the entities that are still in the Government's portfolio.
The consultants would present detailed plans for either privatizing the mines completely
or closing down these entities, depending on the results of the audits.
(f)   etal Reform. The mining code and model agreement would be modified as necessary
and environmental regulations prepared. The consultants would help the MMHE
lawyers modify the legislation, consistent with the policy and strategy that emerge.
They would help draft whatever new or modified regulations would be needed to put
into effect the mining sector strategy including the decrees that specify the statutes of
the sector's new institutions and their procedures. For example, the project would make
available resources to help draft appropriate environmental regulations, the norms
against which mining operations would be monitored, and the decrees granting the
institutions the power to implement environmental policy. The consultants would also
make the mining code consistent and cross referenced with the model agreement, the
code's regulations, the general tax code, the customs code and any intemational
commercial agreements entered into by Mali. In addition, the consultants would help
Mali enter into double taxation treaties with the major investment exporting countries
and fomulate the proper documents to harmonize with those new commitments.
C.         STAFFING AND LEVEL OF EFFORT REQUIREMENTS
5.         To carry out the work the consultancy will be implemented by a team of suitably
qualified and experienced experts. The table below presents the personnel requirements to implement
each of the sub-components of the consultancy:



-  w-Cl     -    
LEVEL OF EFFORT
(in person months)
ANALYSIS OF POLICY ALTERNATIVES
Role of the State/PS Study
Regulatory expert                              I
Comparative Cost Study
Mineral economist                              2
Comparative Tax Study
Tax expert                                     2
Artisanal Mining Study
Anthropologist                                 6
Mineral economist                              2
Mining lawyer                                  1
Environment, Health and Safety Study
Environment and mining expert                  2
Institutional Structure Study
Management consultants                         3
Technical Audits for Privatizations
Mineral economist                              1
Geologist/metallurgist                         2
POLICY DELIBERATIONS/WORKSHOPS
Tax experts and industry reps                  I
Mining policy experts and industry reps        1
Artisanal mining experts                       1
Environment and mining experts                 1
POLICY FORMULATION
Mineral economist                              3
NSTlTUsIIONAL RESTRUCTURING
Long term management expert                   20
Negotiations procedure expert                  3
LEGISLATIVE REFORM
Mining/env/tax lawyer                          6
TOTAL LEVEL OF EFFORT
..............
.. .a..                       ...



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECrOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECr
TERMS OF REERENCE:
TRAINING MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY
A.        BACKGROUND
1.        The Government of Mali has submitted a training plan which it intends to implement
within the scope of the proposed project. The training will be managed by a consultancy which
will determine the training needs of the officials of the Government of Mali and present a varied
program of internships and courses, both in-country and abroad.
B.        WORK PROGRAM
2.        The following presents the types of training that should be included in the program:
(a) A negotiation seminar will be held in-country for one week, once a year for two
consecutive years. This seminar is meant to benefit the negotiations/mineral
commission that will be responsible for dealing with foreign investors and negotiating
exploration and exploitation agreements with them.
(b)  Several managerial geologists from the DNGM  will be sent on three-month
internships in large mining companies to learn mine manent metallurgy and
technology, and environmental safeguard  This internship program would be
initially organized by the consultants but will be later managed and directed by the
DNGM so that it may continue past the life of the project.
(c)  The consultants will organize another internship program that will place geologists,
who will later be extension workers, into small mines in countries with small-scale
mining such as Zimbabwe, Chile, or Mexico so that they may learn small-scale mine
operation, and appropriate mining and procssing technology. This program would
also be managed in its later stages by the DNGM and sustained past the life of the
project.
(d) The consultants will identify and/or organize courses at a mining college or university
abroad on environmental regulations, norm-setting and monitoring, mine safety and
sfeguarding mine worker health for the officials of the DNGM who will be
responsible for monitoring environment, health and safety in the mining sector and
in mining operations, metallurgy, mine m nt, and mining technoogy for the
geologists of the DNGM. These courses will be preceded by short-term language
training to prepare the trainees in cases where the courses are not being taught in
French.



(e) The consultants will hire professors and experts to teach the trainers at the local
college for geologists in Bamako so that they may create new courses in mineral
economis and finance for officials concerned with mining taxation from the Ministry
of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of the Budget as well as the MMHE.
Courses will also be taught at an appropriate institution on surveying techniques for
archeological sites found in mining areas.
C         ORGANIZATION, CAPABILIES AND DURATION
3.        The consultants will determine the training needs, interview candidates for the
training, set a schedule for the types of training that will be provided and to whom. They will
present that schedule to IDA within the first three months of the contract and yearly thereafter
since they should progressively update the program schedule as the needs of the mining sector
institutions change. The consultants will arrange and be responsible for all travel, food and
lodging as well as training arrangements and expenses of the trainees.
4.        The consultants should be a consulting educational institution and/or firm specializing
in mining education. It shou!d have accreditation as a place of higher learning and have an
established record in organizing intermships with private mining companies. It should also offer
courses in French.
5.        The c/intract will be for three years and will involve a 3 person-year level of effort.
6.        Aa important part of the consultants' obligations will be to transfer its capability to
arrange intetnships and training to the MMHE and to ensure that the function is completely
transferred to the MMHE by the end of the contract.



REPUBLIC OF MAIJ
MINING SECTOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
TERMS OF R      RENCE.
NSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING SI1UDY
A         BACKGROUND
1.        The Government of Mali, with the support of the World Bank (IDA), is planning
to carry out a project to assist the country in developing its mining sector by attracting foreign
investment and to develop a local industry made up of small and medium-scale mines. As part
of the project, Mali will have to organize an adequate institutional framework to implement its
sector policy and strategy.
2.        The present institutional structure reflects the result of nearly thirty years of political
evolution, from a state-controlled economy (60s-70s) to a more liberal one (late 80s). At each
step, new entities have been created, without dismantling the old ones, or defining exactly their
respective mandates. The present Mining Code, enacted in 1970 and revised in 1991, does not
delimit the respective objectives, functions and responsibilities of the different existing institutions
in the sector. This has resulted in a confused structure, characterized by overlapping fields of
activities and unclear limits of responsibilities, generating, in some cases, conflicts of mandate.
B         OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY
3.        To improve the management of the mining sector, the Malian Government intends
to hire consultants to undertake a study to design and plan the implementation of:
(a)  an appropriate structure and mandate for the mining sector institutions,
(b)  the optimal level of staffing and budget,
(c)  a set of revised procedures to be used to carry out their mandates, in agreement
with the new economic policy of reduced interference of the state in the production
processes while taking on a more expanded promotional role, and
(d)  a management information system geared to creating checks and balances between
the different institutions and creating transparency in their procedures.
4.        The aim of restructuring would be to increase the capability of the institutions to
regulate the sector in an efficient and effective manner, reducing conflicts of mandates and
improving the flow of information among and between the institutions so as to reduce the
possibility of rent-seeking by individual officials.
C         SCOPE OF THE STUDY
5.        Specifically, the principal product of the study will consist of two or more alternative
plans for restructuring the institutions, each including: (i) a description of the proposed new
institutions in the mining sector; and (ii) an implementation plan to set up the new institutions,



their structure, their mandate and procedures. The following are the functions of the present
institutions that need to be taken into consideration:
*    design and implementation of mining policy and related strategy,
*    design and implementation of environmental, health and safety norms and
regulations for the mining activity,
*    granting of mineral rights and keeping a cadastral system up to date,
*    development, analysis and storage of geological and mining information,
*    monitoring of work programs and compliance with regulations (legal and
fiscal),
*    management of the state's shares in mining ventures,
*    investment promotion and helping investors through the procedures of getting
mining permits,
*    recording and safeguarding of the archeological cultural property found on
mining sites,
*    negotiation of mining agreements with private investors,
*    provision of extension services to artisanal miners, and
*    provision of commercial drilling services.
6.          The plans for restructuring the institutions wili include, for each alternative, the
following information:
(a)  An overall description and justification for the proposed structure, including a
general definition of the role of the state within the sector, including the commercial
services function;
(b)  A description of the relationships between the different entities, within the sector
as well as outside (other ministries involved within the mining activity, universities
or technical schools, private or non governmental associations, etc.);
(c)  A proposed organization and description of objectives, mandates, functions and
responsibilities for each of the individual entities, including an organizational chart;
(d)  A description of the internal functions, procedures and relationships within each of
the individual organizations;
(e)  A profile of key management positions for each new institution;
(f)   Training requirements for key personnel;
(g)  An aliocation of existing infrastructure, facilities, and equipment (including that
found in Bamako, Kati, and in the field) between the new institutions, and a listing
of the required equipment, particularly the necessary hardware and software for the
functioning of the geo-data bank, the cadastral sys.em, and the management
information system; and
(h)  An evaluation of necessary operating budgets (investments, salaries, operating costs),
and identification of sources (in coordination with the Ministry of Budget) with



projections to the medium and to the long term. This should include a study of the
salary scales, and of the field allowance scheme (taking into account both national
and international financing sources and projects).
Implementation plan:
(i)  The required revisions to the legal framework necessary to implement the new
structure,
(j)  The definition of interim steps to be taken by existing organizations to arrive at the
new structure: for example, possible merging of SONAREM, PDRM, and DNGM;
location of office space; redistnbution of infrastructure and equipment; integration
of personnel, etc., and
(k)  A plan for the reduction of personnel--relocation, voluntary retirement schemes, and
other--a time schedule and the financial requirements and source of funds to pay
indemnities.
D.        ORGANIZATION, WORK PROGRAM AND SCHEDULE
7.        The consultants will work in close cooperation with all of the institutions in the
mining sector and report to the Project Coordinator in Mali.
8.        The work program for the study will take 2 months to implement and consist of 3
person-months of work, 2 of which will be carried out in Mali, for data gathering, evaluation and
presentation/discussion of a preliminary draft of the study. One month will then be devoted to
the final compilation and preparation of the final report. The study will be accomplished with
the help of Malian experts and government officials estimated to represent approximately 12
person months.
EL        REPORT
9.        The final report will be presented in 5 copies, both in French and in English. It will
include all of the points discussed in section C above, detailing the design of the new institution
and a plan for implementing the restructuring.
F.        STAFFING
10.       The team of consultants will include:
*    a coordinator of the study: A management consultant and economist,
with international experience in management, consulting in Africa and public
administration restructuring,
*    an information system expert, with intemational experience in mining
cadastre and geodata bank management, and
*    a senior geologist/economist, with international experience in the fields
of State mining sector institutions, as well as geological mapping, regional
exploration, mineral potential assessment, mining policy and development
strategies.



REPUBIJC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACiTY-BUILDING PROJECr
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
GEOLOGICAL DATA SYNTHESIS AND MAPPING
A.        BACKGROUND
1.        Considerable geological work has been undertaken in Mali confirming that Mali has
promising mineral potential. This potential, however, has not been developed because not
enough exploration and development investment by the private sector has been forthcoming. A
large amount of geological data has been generated but has not been properly organized,
synthesized or made readily available to potential investors. Moreover, the Ministry of Mines,
Hydraulics and Energy, which is responsible for the sector through its Direction Nationale de la
Geoloyie et des Mines (DNGM) is committed to taking vigorous actions to stimulate private
investment in the sector, but it is not organized to actively promote mining to the private sector.
The Mining Sector Capacity-Building Project would help the Govermment to attract local and
foreign investment in mining by improving the existing geological information and strengthening
the Government's institutional capacity in investment promotion, among its other activities.
2.        A consultancy will be required to coordinate and implement this aspect of the
project's proposed technical assistance to the Government of Mali. It will be in charge of three
major projects: geological synthesis and thematic mapping; the improvement and modernization
of the documentation center; and investment promotion.
3.        It has been demonstrated that there is countrywide geoscience information for which
several data bases are available. Mali is a large country (1,241,000 km2) but less than 35% of its
territory is covered by modern, detailed geological or photogeological maps. In western and
southern Mali, in the highly potential Birrimian Belt covering tens of thousands of square
kilometers, geochemical data are available in addition to geologicail and geophysical data.
B.        WORK PROGRAM
The work program will be organized into two Phases:
Phase 1:   GIS-based geological, geochemical, and geophysical data synthesis in western and
southern Mali; and
Phase 2:   Geological mapping using LANDSAT imagery and a country-wide integration of
tectonics and structure.
4.        While Phase 2 will be an extension of Phase 1, it will be distinct and be contracted
separately. The scope and extent of Phase 2 will be dependent on the results of Phase 1.
5.        Phase 1: GIS-Based Geological Geochemical and Geophysical Data Synthesis in
Western and Southern Mali GIS integrated mapping will be carried out in those areas delimited
by the Birrimian belt and intervening granitites on a consistent format synthesizing geological,



geochemical, mineral location, and geophysical data (magnetic, gravity, and radiometric). Mineral
anomaly maps (10 sheets at 1:200,000 scale) will be produced in both digital and hard copy form.
These will point out anomalies that will provide targets for investment promotion. This will
involve:
(a)  Digitizing and integrating existing databases, and compiling new ones for use in a
GIS format;
(b)  Filling in gaps in geochemical ground coverage in the two regions together with
appropriate ground gravity, magnetic, electrical, and scintillometer measurements;
(c)  Digitizing the geochemical analytical results; and
(d)  Producing the GIS interpretive mineral anomaly maps together with sheet reports
outlining relevant geological, geochemical, and geophysical features, and mineral
potential.
6.        Phase 2: Country-wide Ihtegration of LANDSAT Imagery, Tectonis, and Structue
(Geological Mapping). The basis for mineral exploration in any cotntry is the provision of
geological maps. Most of Mali has been covered only at reconnaissance scales except in the west,
and even there most of the mapping has been carried out using LANDSAT imagery. In this task,
further geological mapping will be done to cover the country as a whole.
(a)  The 55 LANDSAT images that cover Mali's territory will be purchased. Gravity,
aeromagnetic, and other geophysical data will be retrieved from the DNGM.
(b)  Appropriate spectral bands of the LANDSAT imagery and existing geological
information, and geophysical data (gravity and aeromagnetic) will be integrated.
Geophysical data will be digitized where necessary, converting the data into a
uniform database, thus permitting extrapolation and interpolation of structure and
geological boundaries and provinces.
(c)  Geological thematic maps with gravity/aeromagnetic overlays (28 sheets at 1:500,000
scale) will be produced in both digital and hard copy. Sheet descriptions will be
provided outlining pertinent structural features of economic geology.
(d)  Geological ground-truth observations will be carried out in key areas so that image
features can be checked against structure, geology, and mineralization. Gravity,
magnetic, and electrical profiling will also be carried ouL
(e)  Lithospheric thickness estimates will be generated from available gravity and
topographic data via isostatic response functions. Aeromagnetic data may also
further delineate the cratonic area. Lithospheric thickness maps (3 sheets at
1:1,500,000 scale) will be produced to help delimit diamondiferous kimberlite
provinces.
7.   The extent of additional mapping will be determined by the progress in Phase L



C         QUALIFICATIONS
&         This project will involve the services of a consulting firm or institution  with
appropriate facilities and qualified staff.
(a)  Facility requirements:
*    digitizing facilities using digitizing tables with appropriate software and/or
scanning equipment with appropriate workstation environment and software
to digitize color-coded and contour maps;
*    appropriate computer facilities to process LANDSAT imagery with minimum
distortion. This includes the use of a high resolution graphics screen and
appropriate software with a capability of making high-quality photo outputs;
*    appropriate facilities to reprocess existing geophysical data (gravity,
aeromagnetic as well as some radiometric). These facilities should include a
color workstation environment with appropriate software to reprocess level
and link geophysical survey data to a common datum;
*    appropriate computer facilities and software to model crystal structure and
determine lithospheric thickness estimates from available gravity, topographic,
and aeromagnetic information;
*    appropriate GIS software suitable for integrating the digital cartographic and
database information will be required;
*    appropriate software/hardware facilities (or access to them) will also be
required to design and plot AO size color fill and black and white overlay
maps. The ability to super-impose different images (eg. physical data on
LANDSAT) will be an advantage.
(b) Personnel Requirements:
*    A team of experts made up of geologists and geophysicists and a remote
sensing expert, who have extensive experience in mineral exploration and
geological data manipulation. The team will work both in Mali and abroad
and train five Malian counterpart geologists on-the-job throughout the
project. This will involve sending them overseas to headquarters to take part
in the work done outside of Mali.
*    Two resident experts, geologists. They will have extensive experience in
mineral exploration, experience in managing projects and living in Africa, and
be fluent in French. They will coordinate the project and liaise between the
work done outside of Mali and the field work being undertaken in Mali. ln
addition, they will coordinate the work performed in Mali and manage the
team of Malian geologists.
*    The field work and analyses in Mali are included as part of the consulting
contract and, bence, would be subcontracted to local competent entities.



'v.       lDURA1UN
9.        The Project would last 4 years and represent an 11 person-year level of effort, not
including the field work that will be subcontracted out in Mali or the 5 Malian counterpart
geologists being trained.
*    Phase 1 will last 3 years and involve hiring I resident expert for 3 years in
Mali and a team of experts to perform data synthesis and mapping both in
Mali and at headquarters.
*    Phase 2 will last 2 years and involve hiring the team of experts for short term
consultancies in Mali, and data work and generation of products at
headquarters equivalent to 4 person-years. It will also involve the hiring of a
resident expert in Mali for 2 years.
10.       The long-term experts will have one-year renewable contracts which will be renewed
upon satisfactory performance, not only in the geological work but in the transfer of know-how
to Malian geologists.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECrOR CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
UPGRADING THE DOCUMENTATON CENTER
A.        BACKGROUND
1.        The DNGM's documentation center is the repository for all geological information
and maps generated by the DNGM itself as well as by private firms and donor aid agencies. At
present the center cannot accomodate investors' needs for information. The physical facilities
are in need of repair, the data need to be organized and missing data must be retrieved. The
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is helping the Government organize the center's
information on uranium. The project will help the Government extend the methods developed
by the LAEA to all other minerals and make limited improvements to the facilities of the center
so as to render it functional to potential investors in search of geological information and/or
maps.
B.        WORK PROGRAM
2.        The consultants will perform the following activities:
(a)  Review the documentation center's organization and legal structure, its mandate and
its authority over information. Suggest changes, as appropriate, and agree with the
DNGM. Implement the changes by revising the appropriate documents, setting up
new procedures, and helping the DNGM hire new and/or train existing personnel.
This task must be coordinated with the institutional restructuring activity;
(b)  Perform a spacial analysis of the facilities (including the possibility of relocating from
Bamako to Kati) and determine the extent and type of physical rehabilitation that
is required to make the center useful as a resource center and reading room to be
used by the DNGM and private investors looking for information and maps. This
task should also be coordinated with the institutional restructuring activity;
(c)  Help the DNGM coordinate the physical rehabilitation of the center and organize
the physical location of the center's documents, files, maps, and other materials.
Help the DNGM eliminate unnecessary items and acquire the materials and
equipment needed to render the center functional, such as vertical map storage
cabinets, proper lighting, etc...;
(d)  Identify missing information and retrieve from in- and out-of-country sources, such
as SONAREM, UNDTCD, BRGM, and private companies that have explored in
Mali;



(e)  Review the confidentiality of the DNGM's documents and the availability of data for
access by local and foreign potential investors. If needed, revise the confidentiality
policy;
(f)  Review the computer facilities of the center which are reported to be old and
incompatible with modem formats. Review the IAEA's proposal for purchasing new
computer equipment as weli as the center's future computing needs. Help the
DNGM acquire necessary equipment, as needed;
(g)  In coordination with the IAEA expert, set up a system of codification of the
documents and maps and help record the documents and information in a
computerzed data bank, using the system developed by the [AEA. If necessary,
adapt the [AEA system to be applicable to gold and other minerals found in Mali.
Train and use Malian data-entry specialists to complete the data bank. Train
DNGM staff on the use of the information system; and
(h)  Help establish the center's links with the Pan African Network for a Geological
Information System (PANGIS) so that the center's documentation system can be
sustained in the future through those links.
C         QUALIFICATIONS
3.        The project would require:
*    Initial short term consultancies by a team of management consultants
to organize the administrative and legal framework; an architect to handle the
physical renovation and spacial organization of the center; and a GIS analyst
to review and help acquire computer equipment and adapt the existing
computer information system set up for uranium to the needs of the center
relative to precious and base metals, diamonds and other materials including
hydrocarbons.
*    A geologist experienced in bibliographic computer applications on a one
year long-term assignment to: (a) implement the data organization; (b)
provide the training and supervision of the bibliographic data entry; and (c)
design the outputs of the system; and 2 short term assignments thereafter to
help sustain the data entry and organization functions of the center. The
geologist should have extensive experience in Africa and should speak French
fluently.
D.        DURATION
4.        The project would involve a 2 person-year effort of which 1 year will represent a
long-term assignment in Mali.



ANNEX 11
Page 18 of 21
REPUBLIC OF MAUI
MINING SECfOR CAPACFHY-BUILDING PROJECI
TERMS OF RE NCE.
INVESIENT PROMOIMON
A.        BACKGROUND
1.        The structure and skills of Mali's mining institutions have been geared towards
exploration, having been developed until the present by donor-financed exploration programs.
In keeping with the new philosophy of reduced Government intervention in production and
exploration, the aim of this project is to shift some of the focus toward promotion of private
sector investment. In this respect, the Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy needs assistance
in preparing promotional materials, promoting Mali's mining sector to foreign and local investors,
organizing the sale of Government mining assets to the private sector, and in attracting
investment in the related industries of gold refining and goldsmithing. The consultancy will
provide long- and short-term assistance in those areas.
B.        WORK PROGRAM
2.        Promotional Materials The consultancy will involve preparing promotional materials
on the country as a whole and on prospective areas targeted by the geological data work being
executed under the project. Some promotional materials have been produced by the UNDP and
should be used in conjunction with new information being developed. The materials will be
geared particularly to the investment promotion campaigns, both local and foreign, country-wide
and targeted to particular prospective areas. Materials should also be developed for Government-
held assets being privatized.
3.        Promotonal Campaigns An international promotional campaign should be mounted
to promote specific prospective areas, including presentations at international mining conferences
and visits to individual investors as well as some conferences abroad. When the geological data
work is completed and incorporated into promotional materials, the consultants will organize and
hold an investor conference in Mali, which will include field trips to the prospective areas and
possibly an auction of exploration permits. The campaign should be carried out in close
coordination with two officials of the DNGM charged with investment promotion. The
consultants will train these officials to understand the intemational minerals market, the
prospective investors and their market strategies, how to approach and keep in contact with
representatives of the industry, and how to get information on the industry and its players.
4.        The consultants will also help the DNGM to mount a campaign to interest local
entrepreneurs in developing small- and medium-scale mines either alone or in joint venture with
artisanal miners who have received mining permits for their discoveries and are interested in
developing small modem mines. This campaign may also include contacting Malians from
overseas who have expressed interest in investing in Mali



5.        Training. The consultants will train, on-the-job, two DNGM officials responsible for
investment promotion, on how to undentand the international minerals markets by reading the
industry journals; how to know prospectiv invtors and their market strategies by reading their
annual reports; how to approach and keep in contact with representatives of the industry, and
how to get information on the industly and its playeS from key contacts. They will accompany
the officials to intemational mining conferences, and teach them how to make promotional
presentations there and how to follow up contacts made at the conferences.
6.        Privatization of Government-held Asset    The  consultants will help  the
Government prepare and implement its privatization strategy with respect to Kalana and the
holdings of SONAREM by either promoting the properties directly or preparing bidding
documents which reflect the Government's priorities. Finally, the consultants will help the
Government evaluate the different bids, arrange for financing and negotiate the deals.
7.        Investment Prmotion in Related Industries. Gold mining offers the country a host
of related industries that can increase the value added that remains in the country. That is, the
value of the output can be increased by performing more processing in the country. The two
important industries that can effect this transformation on gold are gold refining and goldsmithing.
The consultants will investigate the status of these industries in Mali and prepare a plan for
stimulating growth in these industries.
C         QUALMICATIONS
8         The consultants will include a team of expert geologists, mineral economists, and
mining lawyers who have extensive experience in marketing mining properties, privatization, and
negotiating mining deals between governments and foreign investors. The team leader should
speak fluent French and have working experience in West Africa. The international and
promotional campaigns will be carried out with the help of DNGM officials. The local
promotional campaign should be run with Malian counterparts from the DNGM and a local
public relations consultant who has extensive knowledge of the business community in Mali. The
contract will include all costs associated with the production of promotional materials and trips
to mining conferences for two Malian Government officials and other operational expenses.
D.        DURATION
9.        The project will last over a period of 4 years, comprising of 2 person years of short-
term consultancies.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINING SECTOR CAPACRIY-BUIDING PROJECr
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
LONG-TERM EXPERT ASSISTANCE TO MMHE
A         BACKGROUND
1.        While the Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy (MMHE) has a large pool of
geologists and other technicians, it lacks financial and organizational management skills to manage
the activities of the proposed project. A long-term consultant will be hired to help the MMHE
coordinate the activities of the proposed project.
B.        WORK PROGRAM
2.        The consultant will work within the Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy to
coordinate and monitor the day-to-day activities of the project, including:
(a)  providing assistance on all aspects of the procurement of consultant services,
equipment and vehicles, and disbursement of the credit,
(b)  coordinating with the IDA Task Manager in supervising the progress of the project,
(c)  providing local support and monitoring the work done under the consulting
contracts,
(d)  providing a liaison between the Government of Mali, the project and IDA: for
example, ensuring that all of the necessary clearances and approvals from all of the
different branches of the Malian Government are obtained in a timely manner, and
providing communications to and from the Government,
(e)  receiving training in financial management of projects, as necessary,
(f)  preparing all of the necessary supervision and project planning reports on behalf of
the MMHE,
(g)  holding the accounts and records of the project and having them audited by
independent auditors yearly on behalf of the MMHE, and
(h)  preparing the annual review meeting, and coordinating and briefing IDA supervision
missions.
C         QUALIFICATIONS AND DURATION
3.        The consultant should have worked in the mining sector in Mali for over three years
in a managerial capacity. She/he should have knowledge of managing and satisfying reporting



requirements of donor aid funded projects. The candidate should be fluent in French and have
a good working knowledge of English.
4.        The consultancy will last 4 years and involve a 4 person-year level of effort in Mali.
The contract will be a 1-year renewable contract to be renewed, subject to IDA's approval.



M  A  L I ,
KNOWN MINERAL OCCURENCES AND DEPOSITS
Mining Sector Capacity-Building Project
Fe-  IRON                                                                                                                                           Z'    TeSst , L'Adror des  Iforcs
Fe  IRON                   ~~~~~~~~Zn Pb   ZINC-LEAD                                                                                  CU u        0
Mn   MANGANESE                           L      LITHIUM              A|D  MC, VnAL)                                                                                      UD E
Cr   CHROME                              U      URANIUM                                                                                              cU \  D_       Q
N,   NICKEL                                                                                                                                              DAU1            1r'    i
A      PETROLEUM DRILL HOLE                                                                                                           U0
BAFING.aAKOYE IRON DISTRICT                                      | P,ROEP  QTRUTURrs 
Au   GOLD                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PETROLEUM STRUCTURE  |M~
Au   GOLD                                                              |Dl
PAVED ROADS            |                                                                                       D,d
D    DIAMOND
Pt   PLATINUM                                  RAILROADS
o    OCCURRENCE                        *       NATIONAL CAPITAL        |
DEPOSIT                                                                                                                       R.D J 
9 DEPOSIT (i) ~~~~~~~~REGION CAPITALS                                |TOMdBOUCT OU                                                                                 p:] 
Cu   COPPER                                     REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                          \
e    BAUXITE                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                       GAO\ 
p   PHOSPHATES                                                                             1 
\ A U                                           R                               oI T ANI A U  __ 
,_ u I N E A                                                                                                                                                            G E R
<AYES ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ So t                                       COT  DIOR                                                  GUNE t                              N
\   t,BaF.ueobe\
to                                                                                                                                                                   0 sv>o w1010 200250 
Wes- Mc                                                                                   I                                                                                I    I    I    Ih moI<sbe7  npn 
AL~~~~~~~~~)                                                                  C                                                                                   uBbKILSvOfeons7d*sor MAURITNAS  
onFlRo Xi        .S<ho.1-  i                                    Grup he knomohJnsuseRT.
^( c1>  < 19/J [ {| N 5  prf treWrlB nLGrup |-< /NIE
Lofi                                                  KOn< {g                                                          s6.j    t j7k<uKN
A ~ ~~OKUwrNwbC  i_ OTEDIOR UNAeI   
s7                                                      .            _.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEI



M A L I                                                  
GEOLOGY
Mining Sector Copacily-Building Project
z v                      nuJ   \   \N                                              ALGERIA
S   DOLFRITES             3   CAXSONIFESOUIS
BIe'RAIMIAN                  ,    DvNU          
GRANITES3 -NEISSES           | CMABO ORDOVICLAN                               ID> s '
!   0 SUPE RFrCKL COVER    -   ALCALINE ORANITESRNG  COMPLEXES                         \
POSITEOC EN
' ro8  E CbNt                 GOANIOIDES -ooc roni.      t                                                                                                    1 f
UPPER CESACEUS
EOCENE In,Onno.                VOLCANO SEDIMENTARY SERIES                                                                       )L         .
TRLACLOWER                     KIDAUAN ASSEA1LY                                                                          /      )
CRIFACEO0USieohlntnq   ,       i     - dit., )I                                                          ,         /}          /         
m         GRANUUTES U GI.I
LATE PROTEROZOIC                                                                                                   LI
;DEM POUDED/METAMORPHOSEO
KMBEMJTES~~~~.                                                                                      \          ULEMD
CARBONATTTES                                                                          - '          - ,        \ 
NATIONLCAPTAL                       1\W         g* /TMOC                                                                                     ULMD  PN
INTERNATIONAL80UNDARES|                                                                                                                         1
SI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BS
E R
61>|1 1 8 ) V i eJ o tthi he idndo d shown d l _)J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGER
-iti   G   U   I  N  E A 0 COTE D'IVOIRE _ < s
si\Aso1i            COEDIO         rE         wuonThe WddTOG



