Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoP-2552-EBT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE EGYPTIAN 'ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
AND
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND A PROPOSED EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
June 6, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Ratel/
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                =            US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                       LE 0.391
Parallel Market Ratel/
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                             US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                       LE 0.70
1/   As of January 1, 1979, all major transactions are carried
out under the Parallel Market Rate.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
EdF                        - Electricite de France
EEA                        - Egyptian Electricity Authority
EEC                        - European Economic Community
EIB                        - European Investment Bank
GWh                        - Gigawatt-hour (1 million kWh)
Hz                         - Hertz
kgoe                       - Kilogram oil equivalent (10,000 kilocalories)
kV                         - Kilovolt
kWh                        - Killowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
MCF                        - Million cubic feet
MEE                        - Ministry of Electricity and Energy
MW                         - Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
REA                        - Regional Electrification Authority
USAID                      - United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AdRAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Loan, Credit and Special Action Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers:         Credit and Special Action Credit
Arab Republic of Egypt-
Loan
Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA)
Guarantor:         Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:       Egyptian Electricity Authority
Amount:            IDA Credit                   US$ 37 million
IBRD Loan                    US$102 million
EEC Special Action Credit   US$ 35 million
Total              US$174 million
Terms:             IDA Credit:  Standard
EEC Special Action Credit:  IDA Standard terms
IBRD Loan: 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at 7.90 percent interest
Relending Terms:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 7.90 percent
interest. EEA would carry the foreign exchange risk
on the loan and on the subsidiary loans.
Project
Description:    The objective of the project is to help meet the electricity
load forecasts for 1984/1985. The project would be the
first stage (600 MW) of a 900-MW thermal power station
selected by EEA as the next step of generation expansion,
and to be located on the Nile, at Shoubrah El Kheima, just
north of Cairo. Specifically the project would comprise:
(i) two 300-MW oil/gas-fired units; (ii) about 4 km of new
transmission lines and reinforcement of about 5 km of
existing ones; (iii) related civil works; and (iv) technical
assistance for load research and load management studies and
feasibility studies for generation and transmission expansion.
The project would meet primarily industrial needs but would
also benefit the agriculture population and improve and/or
provide electrical service to the urban population.
The project faces no special risks. Prequalification of
civil works contractors and the delegation of responsibility
for the supervision of project implementation to construction
management consultants will minimize the risk of delays.
This document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
--------------- $ Million--------------
Item                                Local Cost   Foreign Cost   Total Cost
Thermal Power Station                  35.6            252.6            288.2
Transmission                             1.2             9.2             10.4
Technical Assistance                     1.0             2.0              3.0
Base Cost                         37.8           263.8            301.6
Contingencies                          40.3            124.0            164.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     78.1            387.8           465.9
Unit Cost:
Power Station:  LE 530/kW = $742tkW
Consultants:     $12,500/man-month ($8,330 in foreign exchange
and $4,170 in local currency)
Financing Plan:                                          $ Million
---------- Equivalent ------------
Local          Foreign           Total
IBRD                                 -              102             102
IDA                                  -               37              37
EEC Special Action                   -               35              35
USAID                                -              100             100
EIB                                  -               35              35
Japan                                -               25              25
OPEC Special Fund                    -               10              10
Government                        78.1               43.8           121.9
TOTAL                       78.1              387.8            465.9
Estimated Disbursements:
-------------$ Million--------------
FY  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
IDA Credit
Annual                              5.6    7.0   24.4       -       -       -
Cumulative                          5.6   12.6   37.0       -       -       -
EEC Special Action Credit
Annual                             11.1   17.8    6.1       -       -       -
Cumulative                         11.1   28.9   35.0       -       -       -
Bank Loan
Annual                               -       -      2.3   36.0   33.1   30.6
Cumulative                           -       -      2.3   38.3   71.4  102.0



- iii -
Economic Rate of Return:  About 8 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2446-EGT, June 5, 1979
EMENA Projects Department






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IBRD AND IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Oll A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
AND ON A PROPOSEFD DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND A PROPOSED
EEC SPECIAL ACTIOtI CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT,
FOR THE SHOUBiRAH EL-KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
*  1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
developmenl: credit of US$37 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, and
a proposed EEC Special Action credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine
EEC member states equivalent. to about US$35 million on the terms agreed with
the EEC 1/, to the Arab Republic of Egypt, and on a proposed Bank loan of
US$102 mil'Lion equivalent to the Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) for a
term of 20 years including 5 years grace, with interest at 7.90 percent per
annum, to help finance the f'oreign exchange cost of a 600-MW Power Generation
Project at Shoubrah El-Kheima. In support of the project USAID would make a
grant of $LOO million, and the European Investment Bank is expected to make a
loan of about US$35 million equivalent, the Japanese Government a loan of
about US$25 million equivalent, and the OPEC Special Fund a loan of US$10
million equivalent. The proceeds of the IDA credit and EEC Special Action
credit would be onlent to EEA on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A report on "Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for
a meeting of the Consultative Group was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 30, 1978. Economic missions visited Egypt in October 1978, and in
March 1979. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Recent economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the
new "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and
approved in a national referendum in May 1974. This strategy reflects a major
effort to accelerate economic development through modernization and making
Egypt's largely publicly-owned and centrally-controlled economy more market-
oriented. Specifically, the strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of
1/   These are standard IDA terms except that repayments would be in the
currencies and amounts disbursed.
2/   Part I of this report is virtually identical to Part I of the President's
Report for the Egypt Tourism Project which was presented to the Executive
Directors on May 17, 1979.



- 2 -
government regulations, many of which are to be replaced by the price mech-
anism; tii) the decentralization of decision-making in state-owned enter-
prises; (iii) a more active role for the private sector, including private
foreign investors; and (iv) expanded economic cooperation with Arab and
western countries. Substantial inflows of external assistance from Arab and
Western aid donors and institutions are considered essential to support the
new strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's curency has been effectively devalued from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound (by 44 percent) at present. At the same time,
exchange restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced
by general import quotas, and more foreign exchange made available to both
the public and private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977)
offers attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially
with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bila-
teral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit
was established in the Central Bank, and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        Internally, the autonomy of public enterprises was strengthened,
especially by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to
individual enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) in-
troducing material incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage
scales, (iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements, and (v)
undertaking investments from own resources. Provincial authority to undertake
regional development programs was also expanded.
6.        A start has been made to rationalize the price structure, and to
increase price flexibility. Thus, the share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control was reduced from some 50 percent in 1975 to about 35
percent by 1978, and prices for a number of controlled products (including agri-
cultural crops and some public service tariffs) were substantially increased.
Interest rates were raised several times and stand now at 10 to 12 percent for
lending (to the non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5 percent for term deposits.
Private sector activity is being encouraged, and has been freed from many
previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of foreign investment con-
tracts are being signed, especially in the important oil and tourist sectors.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy action have yielded
some impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in
Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to an
estimated $5.5 billion in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers'
remittances, tourism and the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of
foreign exchange.  This was accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and
industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addi-
tion, the Government managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance.
Gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion p.a.



during 1975-78, compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72.
The bulk of these aid flows came from Arab and Western donors, and were pro-
vided at highly concessional terms.
8.        The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has eased the pres-
sure on the balance of payments and allowed much higher levels of imports.
This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of investment, larger domestic
consumption, and a better utilization of existing production capacities.
Imports of goods and services (excluding interest payments) rose from about
$2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.7 billion in 1978; imports of'capital
goods increased at an even faster rate. Gross capital formation expanded from
LE 515 million ($1.2 billion) 1/ in 1973 to LE 2,700 million ($4.0 billion) 1/
in 1978, reaching the equivalent of 30 percent of GNP in the latter year.
Increased availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers
enabled them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods - including
fertilizer and pesticides - and spare parts thus breaking crucial bottlenecks
that had constrained local production. Together with investments in new
capacities and a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and
shipping, these developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.        The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 10 percent p.a. during 1975-78. 2/ Much of the
growth was concentrated in the petroleum sector, construction, manufacturing,
transport and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand,
increased very slowly (about 1 percent p.a.). The higher level of economic
activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil export-
ing countries absorbed much of the excess labor force that existed in the
early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to emerge in a
number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
10.       Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows resulted in a
consolidation of Egypt's external debt, and strengthened the country's credit-
worthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $490 million at end 1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the Devel-
opment of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in debt
payments were cleared which had built up in the previous years. These changes
have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have also eased
the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although Egypt's
total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during recent years--
from $2.1 billion end 1973 to an estimated $9.2 billion end-1978--the debt
service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent, respectively. This
1/   Conversions are made at the weighted average of the official and the
parallel market exchange rates, the weights being their prevalent respec-
tive shares of trade.
2/   The growth rate of GNP was much higher, about 15 percent per annum,
because of the massive growth in workers' remittances (see Annex I).



- 4 -
reflects not only more favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and
longer maturities--but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.
11.       There are indications that the growth of production and investment
has slowed down in the last twelve months. One important reason for this is
that existing production capacities are now used at relatively high levels
while new capacities do not come on stream quickly due, in large part, to
administrative delays and construction bottlenecks. There are also growing
labor scarcities, especially in the skilled categories, and some branches face
stiff competition from imported consumer goods. Internal demand, on the other
hand, continues to grow rapidly creating rising inflationary pressures and a
high propensity to import.
Development Potential and Constraints
12.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a proficient
population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for a continued growth of foreign
exchange earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which
is undergoing a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in
the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less opti-
mistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for new industrial and
agricultural products are promising.
13.       However, future economic growth will come less easily than during
the past five years. As was mentioned above (para 11) capacities are now
strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure. Investment in
new capacities is moving slower than anticipated, and is constrained by
administrative inefficiency, weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises is still weak,
while financial incentives for production are inadequate in many instances.
The latter problem has recently been reinforced by indiscriminate competition
from imports, many of which enter the country with little restrictions.
14.       Low levels of investment during the late 1960's and early 1970's
have led to a deterioration in physical infrastructure, mainly railways,
ports, airports, telecommunications and power. Similarly, there are serious
shortages in social investments, especially housing and urban facilities
(water supply, sewerage, etc.). Lack of adequate drainage facilities con-
strains agricultural productivity, while in industry large investments are
needed merely for balancing and modernization. These bottlenecks became more
pronounced as the economy expanded in recent years. Higher levels of economic
activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical
professional and technical skills (see paragraph 9 above). Educational
facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs
to be upgraded.
15.       There is a severe shortage in domestic investment funds, especially
for the public sector. Notwithstanding high rates of taxation--over 30 percent
of GNP in recent years--savings generated by the government budget are rela-
tively low. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one



percent oE GNP, while their contribution to the financing of public investment
did not exceed an average of 10 percent p.a. This is the result of high
defense and security expenditures, large consumer subsidies,
and fast growing interest payments which taken together claimed 71
percent oE the Government's tax revenues in 1978. At the same time, savings
generated by public enterprises are constrained by price regulations which
frequently do not allow fuLl cost recovery or seriously limit profit margins.
16.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 40 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population is growing
at a rate of 2.2 percent p.a., adding more than 800,000 people every year.
This creates great pressures on resources for consumption and investment, and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run.
17.       A serious side-eEfect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in income distribution and consumption levels. Income differentials
have been further widened by inflationary pressure (18 percent in 1978). It
is estimated that currently the lower 40 percent of the rural population
receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban areas the
proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural and 22 percent
of the urban population are below absolute poverty lines. Although the above
pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty are less than in most
developing economies it is nevertheless a serious issue, which could worsen if
no effective policy action is taken.
Further Action Required
18.       The peace treaty with Israel presents a new situation the full
economic impact of which cannot be assessed easily at this stage. Internally,
it should. allow the Government to devote crucially needed time and energy to
dealing with economic and development policy issues; it could free important
human, material and financial resources and provide a breathing space for pre-
paring a medium- to long-term framework for economic development. Externally,
however, there could be significant repercussions, at least in the short run,
particularly in terms of foreign aid flows.
19.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. More specifically, action is
needed to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through
organizational and procedural modifications, and selective changes in salary
structures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and
project preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced
program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially
expand the program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural
strategies aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration in Cairo and Alexan-
dria, and creating more productive opportunity in smaller towns and rural
areas; (vi) further activate the use of prices as indicators of relative
scarcities; (vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii)
improve professional and technical education; (ix) increase public savings;
and (x) develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank;
they have also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the
Consultalive Group for Egypt, especially at its second meeting in June 1978.



- 6 -
20.       Over the last few years, the Government has initiated action in many
of these areas, often with support from the World Bank, IMF, UNDP, regional
and bilateral aid donors. Above all, the Government has prepared a Five-Year
Plan which was adopted by Parliament in mid-1978 and which provides a medium-
term perspective to the Govenment's development strategy and policy objectives.
It advocates a high growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive
and supported by fast growing exchange earnings. The domestic and foreign
private sectors are expected to play an increasing role in the development
process, although the public sector will retain its dominant position. Each
year the plan is being updated and moved forward by one year, to flexibily
respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
21.       In support of the overall plan a number of sector and subsector
programs are presently'under preparation with the assistance of the Bank
and other donors. They include a water master plan, various industrial
sub-sector studies, a review of the transport sector, and an electrification
program. These programs will identify sectoral priorities, define appropriate
policies and institutional arrangements, and prepare specific development
projects, many of which could be cofinanced by foreign donors. Other pro-
grams such as those for the development of the oil sector, the widening and
deepening of the Suez Canal and a national drainage scheme, have already
reached the stage of implementation.
22.       The Government is also preparing a more rational price policy.  In
line with this, a comprehensive Bank study on the adjustment of agricultural
prices is underway, and first results are expected by the end of the year.
Price ceilings are expected to be lifted for most industrial products, and
further adjustments will also be made for utility tariffs. However, care will
have to be taken that these price changes will not erode the standard of
living of the poor. In this context, efforts have been initiated to define
the framework for a more active program to provide for the basic needs of the
lower income groups. In the past two years the Government, at the highest
level, has also come to a new commitment to direct action on population
matters. While it has already initiated such action (e.g. an intensified home
visiting program under the second IDA financed population project), it will
take time until measureable results in fertility reduction can be seen.
23.       Last year, the Government negotiated an arrangement under the IMF's
extended facility, which was approved by the IMF's Board of Directors in July
1978. The agreement permits Egypt to make purchases from the IMF over the
next three years up to a total amount equivalent to SDR 600 million (about
$770 million). As part of this arrangement, the Government has adopted since
January 1979, the parallel market rate for virtually all foreign exchange
transactions, and has undertaken to further reduce exchange control restric-
tions. The Government has also undertaken to continue decontrolling the
output prices of public sector companies. The effect of this policy will be
to improve the financial situation of such companies as well as the Govern-
ment, and thus facilitate efforts to increase budgetary savings. A first
drawing of $96 million was made in June 1978.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1978 was estimated at about $9.2 billion (see



- 7 -
paragraph 10). Of the total, medium- and long-term loans amounted to $6.4
billion (of which $0.4 billion was in non-convertible currencies), medium-
and long-term deposits with the Central Bank of Egypt were $2 billion, and
suppliers' credits $0.8 billion. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia, followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 5 percent of the total disbursed debt. Debt
service on medium-and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in 1978 1/
giving a debt service ratio of about 24 percent. No reliable estimates of
military debt are availablie.
25.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international envi-
ronment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated at about $3 billion per annum for the coming
five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are available
on the terms expected, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow
the amounts envisaged, incLuding a limited amount on harder terms. The burden
of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign
exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate between 21 and 28 percent during
1979-83, and to gradually decline thereafter to about 16 percent in 1988. In
these circumstances Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount
of Bank lending in addition to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the
ground of its poverty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 2/
26.       The proposed Bankc loan and IDA credit would be the World Bank's
fortyfirst and fortysecond lending operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank
and IDA commitments made siLnce 1970 to $1,355.5 million. Annex II contains a
Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of April 30, 1979, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
27.       Given Egypt's basic structural problems:  pressure of population on
resources; lacking economic infrastructure; a large public sector constrained
by administrative fragmentation and a network of controls over investment,
production, distribution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits
and pressing demand for finding domestic resources, the Bank's response has
been tailored to address, iin a very broad fashion and in close cooperation
with other donors, these long-term developmental issues. The necessary
breadth of the Bank's contribution to Egypt has dictated a strategy which
involves entry into the whole spectrum of sectors with a view to provide not
only direct finance with the relatively limited resources that the Bank/IDA
1/   Inclusive of IMF repayments of $75 million.
2/   ParaS. 27 to 31 of this report are virtually identical to paras. 27 to
31 of the President's Report for the Egypt Tourism Project which was
presented to the Executive Directors on May 17, 1979.



- 8 -
can make available but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other financing
agencies, both bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating dis-
cussion and, hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies
and investment proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The
approach must also include delivery of technical assistance not only for
adequate implementation of specific investment programs but for developing
the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement future
policies and programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral inter-
vention has been differentiated by sectors and by the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can address these issues.
28.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector receiv-
ing the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention, illus-
trates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. It is the one sector
which has the capacity for creating employment opportunities which can meet
the demands of Egypt's growing population and limited agricultural land.
However, this sector is beset by a complex constellation of problems which
stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and lack of management
autonomy, the distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives. Efforts under
our projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity
utilization (Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456)
and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort--embodied in these projects--has been
directed at introducing policy and structural improvements through initiating
six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, which would provide the
foundations for formulating a package of policy and investment proposals. To
complement these efforts in basic industries the Bank has also carried out a
study on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for Egyptian
and our efforts in this area.
29.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
our intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach
that we have adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian
economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with that which the Egyptian
Government wants us to play but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function, which the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group, should fulfill. Preparation of projects for future
lending follows this strategy. A development finance project, a second
textiles project, a gas project 1/, a pulp and paper project and an agro-
industries project have been appraised. A pipeline of projects for possible
future lending is also being developed, including further projects in water
supply and sewerage, education, power, rural and urban development, trans-
portation, agriculture (including drainage) and agro-industry, development
finance, industry and telecommunications.
30.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
1/   Being submitted to the Executive Directors for consideration
simultaneously with this project.



external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 2.3 percent and 2.5'
percent, respectively at the end of 1978. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding miliXtary
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.4 and 3.4 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bark and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
31.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978.  IFC is also discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
Power and Energy Resources
32.       Egypt's principal tenergy resources are hydrocarbons and hydropower.
Recoverable oil reserves are estimated at about 350 million tons, representing
14 years' supply at the curresnt annual production level of 25 million tons.
Associated gas is produced in conjunction with production of oil currently at
the rate of about 200 million cubic feet a day.  In addition, recoverable
reserves of non-associated gas from known fields, onshore and offshore, are
put at 3.5 trillion cubic feet. The River Nile accounts for virtually all
the conventional hydropower potential. About 80 percent of the Nile's poten-
tial has already been harnessed at the Aswan Dam (345-MW installed capacity)
and Aswan High Dam (2,100 MW). Some 350 MW more are expected to be developed
by about 1990 by an extension of the Aswan Dam and the improvement of three
existing barrages. The only other potential source of hydropower is the
Qattara Project, which could initially produce about 600 MW by utilizing the
drop of 60 meters between the Mediterranean and the Qattara Depression in the
Western Desert while the Depression is filling (12 years), and about 340 MW
thereafter.
33        Other commercial energy resources, actual or potential, are coal,
oil shale, solar energy and geothermal energy. Coal reserves in the Western
Desert and Sinai are estimated at around 100 million tons, but economically
exploitable reserves are put at only 35 million tons, all in the Sinai. Oil
shale deposits have been located in the Sinai and around the Gulf of Suez,
but no estimate of reserves are available and the quality appears to be too
poor to be worth exploiting. The solar energy potential, though at present
untapped, is vast. Geothermal energy data are scarce, but the prospects for
discovering low or intermediate temperature geothermal waters are considered
good. As in other developing countries non-commercial fuels in the form of
crop residue and animal waste are in extensive use. Although no data is
available on its magnitude, a recent study estimates energy produced by non-
commercial fuels at around 5 million tons of oil equivalent. This would
represent about one-third of total energy consumption. In 1977 per capita
energy consumption was about 343 kilogram oil equivalent (kgoe) compared



- 10 -
with 1976 figures of 735 kgoe for Portugal, 520 kgoe for Turkey, 510 for
Algeria and 191 kgoe for Morocco.
Energy Sector Issues
34.       The most important issues in Egypt's energy sector are pricing and
lack of adequate planning. Controlled prices for all essential goods are
basic to the Government's economic and social policies and are applied at
present to a wide range of commodities and services including, among others,
petroleum products. Heavy fuel oil (mazout), for example, is sold domestic-
ally at LE 7.50/ton, while the going price on world markets is $75.00/ton (LE
53.60/ton). Subsidies are also considerable in the power subsector where
present tariffs are below the marginal cost of supply. Both the levels and
structure of electricity tariffs are inadequate, according to an interim
report by French consultants (SOFRELEC) financed by the Bank under the first
power project (Loan 1453-EGT). Under the proposed project the consultants
contract would be extended to cover further work required.
35.       A joint assessment of Egypt's energy resources and needs up to the
year 2000 carried out by an Egypt/US team in March-July 1978 pointed out
serious gaps and inconsistencies in Egypt's current energy planning. A lack
of adequate energy planning data base was also emphasized. The joint assess-
ment concluded by recommending continuing assistance to help Egypt establish
a comprehensive energy planning capability to prepare and implement energy
development plans effectively. These issues will be addressed in studies to
be undertaken under the Gulf of Suez Gas Project which is proposed for Bank
financing and is being processed concurrently with this project. These
studies include work on petroleum exploration, petroleum products pricing and
the impact of price changes on consumers,as well as a gas utilization study
designed to confirm reserves and recommend optimal allocation of gas among
competing uses. In addition, under the proposed power project, the Government
would establish not later than December 31, 1979, an Inter-Ministerial Coor-
dinating Committee on Energy to be solely responsible for energy planning
activities in Egypt thus taking over and expanding the authority and scope of
activities of the Ministerial Committee established by Prime Minister Decision
of October 26, 1974 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
The Power Subsector
36.       The Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MEE) is in charge of public
electricity supply. Under MEE, the Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) is
responsible for generation, bulk supply of electricity to the whole country
and, until recently, distribution in the Cairo and Alexandria areas. In the
rest of the country, Municipal Councils acted as EEA's agents to supply
electric service at the retail level. As of January 1, 1979 seven distribu-
tion companies have been established to take over from EEA in Cairo and
Alexandria and the Municipal Councils elsewhere (para. 44). Other agencies
also under the Ministry of Electricity and Energy are three Authorities (Rural



- 11 -
Electrification, Qattara Depression, and Nuclear Power Plants), three power
sector construction enterprises, and a power equipment manufacturer (medium
voltage sw:itchgear and distribution and small power transformers).
37.       In 1978 total intetrconnected generating capability was 2721 MW in 17
generating stations. Of these, 919 MW are in steam electric plants, 236 MW
in combustion turbines and 1,566 MW in hydro. The figure for hydro capability
reflects the limitations imposed by the December irrigation programs.  The
power system comprises also a 500-kV interconnection between the hydro plants
in the south (Aswan) with the load centers and thermal plants in the northern
part of the country (Cairo and the Nile Delta). A 220-kV network serves the
Northern Egypt loads and a 132-kV system, generally parallelling the 500-kV
link, serves the loads in the Nile Valley and nearby oases. Utilization volt-
age is 380/220 volts and system frequency is 50 Hz. EEA's general service
facilities include general office buildings in Abbassia (Cairo) a high voltage
research center and two training institutes also in the Cairo area and various
other installations throughout the country.
38.       Planning in the power subsector has been improving primarily as
a result of improvements in EEA's organization in line with the recommenda-
tions of the UNDP-financed Power Sector Survey carried out in 1976-78, for
which the Bank was Executing Agency. The Survey identified major issues
in relation to pricing, planning, organizational and institutional aspects of
the Egyptian power subsector. EEA is making progress in dealing with these
issues, with assistance from the Bank under the first power project (e.g.
tariff study, strengthening of financial administration and accounting, safety
inspection services, manpower development and training, etc.). Additional
Bank assistance to improve system operation and planning would be provided
under the proposed project. In addition, EEA plans to carry out with finan-
cial assistance from UNDP and under Bank supervision a thermal power plant
maintenance project to strengthen EEA's capabilities in combustion turbine and
boiler technology, operation and maintenance.
Bank Group Participation in the Subsector
39.       The Bank has made one loan for power in Egypt, Loan 1453-EGT ($48
million) in 1977 for regional electrification. The loan provided for rehab-
ilitation and extension of electric power facilities serving a regional
population of about 6 million people in 13 urban centers and 19 rural zones
outside Cairo and Alexandria., The loan included technical assistance for
training and studies to strengthen organizational and institutional aspects
of EEA and REA. Progress on the Project is satisfactory. Construction has
started in the first quarter of 1979 and completion of the Project is expected
on schedule by the end of 1980.
The Market for Electrical Energy
40.       Despite vigorous efforts to extend electric service throughout
Egypt, only 62 percent of the urban population and 19 percent of the rural
dwellers had access to electric service in 1976 when annual per capita con-
sumption was only about 289 kWh. Maximum demand rose from 872 MW in 1967 to



- 12 -
2,338 MW in 1977 (9.9 percent p.a.) and sales from 4,756 GWb to 11,429 GWh
(9.2 percent p.a.). The average growth rates for the whole ten-year period
conceal very divergent trends within the period. The annual growth rates
followed a markedly downward trend in the first half of the period, declining
from 10.1 percent in 1968 to 0.8 percent in 1972 for sales, and from 6.7
percent to 1.4 percent for maximum demand, the average annual growth rates
over the five-year period being 5.4 percent and 6.2 percent respectively.
These low growth rates reflected the performance of the economy in these
years, during which the growth of GNP averaged only 4.3 percent p.a. Since
1972 there has been a sharp reversal of these trends, with economic growth of
7 percent p.a. and power demand growing at over 13 percent p.a.
41.       The key factor in the much higher growth rate of power market over
the last five years has been the demand of five major industrial consumers,
three of which began operations during this period. The five together (Nag
Hammadi Aluminum, Kima Fertilizer, Helwan Iron and Steel, Talkha Fertilizer
and Sumed Pipeline) accounted for over 54 percent of total incremental sales
between 1973 and 1977, during which period sales to these large industrial
consumers grew at over 34 percent p.a. Sales to other consumer categories
grew much less rapidly, ranging from 17 percent p.a. for residential/commercial
consumers to 1.4 percent p.a. for irrigation/agriculture. As a result the
share of industry in total electricity sales rose from 54 percent to 63 per-
cent. In addition, residential/commercial sales accounted for 24.4 percent,
irrigation and agriculture for 5.8 percent, general purpose for 4.7 percent
and Government buildings for 2.4 percent. The high proportion of industrial
sales also accounts for the relatively high system load factor (65 percent in
1977). Current average prices/kWh are 2.562 milliemes ($0.0036) for Nag
Hammadi Aluminum Co., 3.354 milliemes ($0.0047) for Kima Fertilizer Co., and
5.075 milliemes ($0.0072) for other large industrial customers. Smaller
industries pay 6.00 milliemes ($0.0084)/kWh for supply at high voltage (220
kV and 132 kV). Industrials with 500 kW or less installed capacity pay 12.55
milliemes ($0.0176)/kWh, Municipalities and Distribution Companies pay 9.31
milliemes ($0.0131)/kWh, and all low voltage (380/200 V) consumers--16 mil-
liemes ($0.0224)/kWh. These low rates reflect the controlled price structure
in Egypt (para. 34).
Power Development Program
42.       To meet the projected needs of the power subsector, EEA developed a
least-cost system expansion program with the help of consultants and up-to-date
system planning techniques. The least-cost development program confirmed the
need for early commissioning of the available Nile hydropower at Aswan and
three existing barrages. Nuclear power also has a place in EEA's program.
Although still clouded in uncertainty, nuclear stations are being optimistic-
ally scheduled for combined operation with pumped storage starting in 1988.
Earlier scheduling is precluded by the estimated lead time needed for planning
and executing nuclear projects in Egypt (9-10 years). Similar considerations
make it necessary to schedule new hydro generation to come on line not earlier
than 1986. In the meantime, Egypt will have to fill the growing system needs
from oil and gas-fired thermal power stations. New steam electric generating
capacity rated 300 MW will need to be added to the system by the end of 1984



- 13 -
and 1,200 MW in 1985-1986. Additional combustion turbine capacity committed
for 1978-1986 amounts to 411 MW. Proportional expansion in transmission and
distribution brings the total estimated construction requirements of,the
Egyptian power sector for 1978-1986 to LE 7.4 billion ($10.6 billion)', includ-
ing escalation. The proposed project makes up about 5 percent of the total
capital expenditure requirements of the program in that period.
The Borrower/Beneficiary
43.       The proposed Banlc loan would be made to the Egyptian Electricity
Authority (EEA), the Borrower under the first Bank loan for power, and the
IDA and the EEC Special Action credits would be made to the Government and
onlent to EEA. EEA is a Government owned enterprise established in 1976 as
part of a general reorganization of the power subsector by the Ministry of
Electricit:y and Energy. EEA became responsible for implementation, manage-
ment, operation and maintenance of all electric power facilities in Egypt.
EEA is managed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors assisted by two
Deputy Chairmen: one for System Operations, and the other for Financial and
Administrative Affairs. The Board of Directors includes the Heads of EEA's
five regional offices, representatives of the Ministries of Electricity and
Energy, Finance and Planning, and the Chairman of the Rural Electrification
Authority..
44.       ERA is financial:Ly partly autonomous, in that it prepares its own
annual budget and 5-year p:Lans (subject to Government approval), retains any
surplus revenues for its own development and can contract loans both locally
and from i-oreign sources, subject to the Government's approval. Since its
establishment, by-laws have been enacted prescribing for EEA such matters as
personnel policy, salaries and wages, recruitment, and procurement procedures.
In personnel matters, however, EEA has virtually no autonomy since it is still
required t:o conform to Government policy in this area. The move towards
increased autonomy is slow, hampered by traditional, cumbersome procedures
still retained by the Government. Another institutional issue is the estab-
lishment as of January 1, 1979 of seven distribution companies as subsidiaries
of EEA to take over distribution activities at 11 kV and below. The seven
distribut-Lon companies were intended to begin independent operation simul-
taneously on January 1, 1979. However, this schedule proved too optimistic,
and difficulties are expecled during the transition, especially outside the
Cairo and Alexandria zones. The Government and EEA have agreed to have the
distribut:Lon coxpanies start operations with the help of consultants to be
engaged not later than October 31, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04,
and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
45.       The project forms part of the least-cost system expansion program,
developed by EEA with the help of consultants and using up-to-date system



- 14 -
planning techniques (i.e. the Wien Automatic System Planning - WASP - digital
computer programs) to meet Egypt's future demand for electricity. EEA's
integrated power system is growing rapidly to meet the needs of industry,
which presently accounts for about 65 percent of electrical consumption,
and to supply the growing urban and rural demands resulting partly from the
first Bank financed project (Loan 1453-EGT) and similar projects financed by
USAID, Germany, OPEC Special Fund and other aid sources.
46.       Due to the lengthy lead-time required to plan and execute hydro
and nuclear generation facilities, Egypt's additional electric power needs
in 1984 to 1986 can be met only through thermal power plants such as the one
under the proposed project. In view of its importance to the country the
project has attracted substantial interest among a large group of aid donors,
among whom the Government expects USAID, EIB, Japan and the OPEC Special Fund
to join in cofinancing the project.
47.       The project was defined through a feasibility report carried out by
consultants between June 1978 and February 1979. The project was identified
in July and appraised in November 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
from May 7 to May 16, 1979. The Government was represented by Mr. Samir
Koraiem, Under Secretary for International Finance in the Ministry of Economy,
Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation. EEA's delegation was led by Mr. Kamel
Dessouki, Chairman of EEA. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2446-EGT of June
5, 1979) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
48.       The Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power Project comprises:
(a) a thermal power station with two 300-MW, oil/gas-fired units
to be connected to EEA's interconnected system as the first
stage of a 900-MW plant (3 x 300 MW) ultimately planned for
this site;
(b) a loop of about 4 km of three double-circuit 220-kV overhead
and underground transmission lines connecting the full 900-MW
Shoubrah El Kheima capacity to the Cairo North-Cairo West
section of the Cairo 220-kV ring, plus reinforcement of about
5 km of the 220-kV ring and replacement of circuit breakers
at the Cairo North substation; and
(c) about 240 man-months of technical assistance to carry out load
research and load management studies and feasibility studies
for generation and transmission expansion.
Fuel Supply
49.       The proposed plant would be located on the Nile just north of Cairo,
at the site of an old, retired EEA steam electric generating station. The
plant would be capable of burning heavy fuel oil (mazout) or natural gas.



- 15 -
Fuel requirements would amount to the equivalent of approximately 1.0 million
tons/a for the first two uniits, reaching 1.6 million tons/a once the site is
fully developed (3 x 300 MW) after 1986, or the equivalent of 100 million and
150 millicn cubic feet per day of gas respectively. Both fuels are available
in sufficient quantities; however, existing pipeline capacity is not capable
of handling the whole of Shoubrah El Kheima's fuel requirement. Therefore,
the Government would provide for building the additional pipeline facilities
as they become necessary to assure adequate supplies of fuel for Shoubrah El
Kheima in accordance with the plant's planned operation (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02(a)). To take into account environmental aspects of the project
the Government has indicated that no more than 2 units out of the 3 ultimately
envisaged on the site would be fueled by mazout, and that gas would be pro-
vided to fire at least one unit. As a result of the gas utilization study,
to be financed under the: proposed Gulf of Suez Gas Project, also under con-
sideration in this fiscal year, it is expected that additional gas fuel would
be made available to the Cairo area in sufficient quantities to supply power
generation plants, including this project, on a long-term basis. The study
is expected to be completed in 1980. The Government would take prompt action
to allocate any available gas in line with the accepted recommendations of the
study (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The estimated total financing required for the project is $465.9
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $387.8 million. The
estimated project costs include escalation covering the implementation period
1979-1985. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 7-1/2 percent for
the thermal power plant, 10 percent for the transmission component and 5 per-
cert for technical assistance. Price contingencies were estimated at 27 per-
cent for foreign currency costs, and at 48 percent for local currency costs.
51.       The proposed project is expected to be financed from the following
-sources:
-----US$ millions------------
Local           Foreign          Total
IBRD                                 -              102.0           102.0
IDA                                  -              37.0             37.0
EEC Special Action                   -              35.0             35.0
USAID                                -              100.0           100.0
EIB                                   -             35.0             35.0
Japan                                -               25.0            ;5.0
OPEC  Special Fund                   -               10.0            10.0
Government of Egypt                78.1              43.8           121.9
Total Project Financing            78.1             387.8           465.9
The Bank ($102 million)/IDA ($37 million) financing would cover about 36
percent of the foreign costs of the project. The Bank loan would be made
to EEA and would be for 20 years, including a 5-year period of grace with



- 16 -
interest at 7.90 percent. The IDA credit and the Special Action Credit would
be subject to normal IDA terms and be repayable over 50 years, including a
10-year period of grace, and would be onlent to EEA on the same terms as the
Bank loan and disbursed ahead of the Bank loan. The execution of Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between the Government and EEA covering_the terms and condi-
tions on which the Government would make the proceeds of the credit and
of the Special Action credit available to EEA, would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a) and Special Action
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). The USAID contribution would be a grant
to EEA through the Government. The remaining foreign financing is expected
to come from loans and credits from the cofinanciers listed above. In
addition to providing the local cost funds for the project, the Government has
undertaken to cover any foreign exchange requirements which would be still
needed to complete the financing plan of the project. The Government is,
however, unlikely to need to provide any substantial portion of this foreign
exchange gap from its own resources as the gap is likely to be closed from
additional aid sources currently under consideration for the cofinancing of
this project. In addition, various international commercial banks have
expressed their readiness to participate in the cofinancing of this project.
Appropriate cross effectiveness conditions with the major other co-financing
agreements have been agreed. To avoid unnecessary delays in project imple-
mentation, however, Bank Group financing would become effective once enough
loan and credit agreements are executed to provide about 80 percent of the
total foreign exchange required by the project (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(a)). Provisions for cross-default have also been agreed with the Govern-
ment, EEA and the major cofinanciers.
52.       All local funds will be furnished to EEA by the Government subject
to interest at 5 percent per annum and repayable over 12 years after a 3-year
period of grace. To ensure availability of local counterpart funds when
needed, Government has agreed to establish, as a condition of effectiveness,
a special account (to be replenished monthly) available to EEA to meet at
least three months' expenditures on the project which are required to be
provided locally, as determined from time to time (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.02(b)). The Government has also agreed to provide EEA with funds to
meet interest and other charges during construction on the Bank loan and the
Subsidiary Loans estimated to be about $20 million (Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.02(c)), and to cover any cost overrun on the project (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.02(a)). EEA would carry the foreign exchange risks on the Bank loan
and on the subsidiary loans.
Project Implementation
53.       To ensure timely completion in spite of probable difficulties
that may arise due to the nature and magnitude of construction capability
required by the project, EEA is engaging consultants under USAID financing to
carry out detailed design, prepare bidding documents and specifications, and
procure and manage all supply and construction contracts on behalf of EEA.
Engagement of the project consultants, if not effected by the time of signing
of the Loan Agreement, would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01(d)). The consultants would be fully responsible for coordinating



- 17 -
all work. Prequalification of civil works and installation contractors would
be required. Bidding and award of contracts for all parts of the project is
expected to be completed by early 1980. The first unit would be placed in
commercial operation at the end of 1984, and the second unit six months later,
in June 19135, when the project is expected to be completed. LEA has agreed to
make suitable project monitoring arrangements acceptable to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04).
Procurement
54.       Together with the funds provided for the project by the other co-
financiers the proceeds of the loan, credit and Special Action credit would
be used to cover the foreign exchange cost of the project. Contracts to
be financed under the loan, credit and Special Action credit would be awarded
under international competitive bidding procedures, with the proceeds of the
Special Action credit to be used for procurement in EEC countries only.
However minor contracts for which there are only a limited number of suppliers
could be procured under international and local shopping procedures, up to an
aggregate amount not expected to exceed $2.5 million. The Bank has reached
agreement in principle with the other major cofinanciers that all contracts
for the project would be bid under the Bank Group s guidelines, with contracts
and subcontracts awarded to suppliers in the USA or EEC countries to be
financed out of USAID and EEC Special Action funds, until such funds are fully
committed. Other contracts would be jointly financed out of the funds pro-
vided by the Bank Group and all other cofinanciers.  Should it become evident
that the USAID and EEC funds would not be fully utilized under this procedure,
the Bank and the other cofinanciers would, whenever necessary, agree with EEA
on equipment packages for which bids would be invited from suppliers in the
USA and/or EEC countries.  A domestic preference of the lesser of 15 percent
or the applicable custom duties would be applied to evaluation of bids on
equipment contracts supplied by Egyptian manufacturers, should there be any.
55.       To ensure full development of the site's capability, bidding docu-
ments would be prepared also for a third 300-MW unit as part of Phase I.
Design engineering and implementation would take place, contingent upon addi-
tional financing to be arranged by the Government and EEA.
Disbursement
56.       Bank Group funds would be disbursed against the foreign exchange
cost of each contract awarded under Bank Group procurement guidelines in the
same proportion as that of Bank Group financing to the total available joint
financing. To the extent feasible, the credit, Special Action credit and
funds provided on relatively soft terms would be disbursed ahead of the loan
and other funds provided on relatively harder terms. Since the goods and
works to be financed from USAID and EEC funds, and consequently from the
remaining sources will depend on the outcome of bidding it is not possible at
this stage to indicate what items would be financed from which source.
However, a possible allocation is shown in the Appraisal Report and reflected
in the legal documents.



- 18 -
Financial Performance of EEA
57.       On the basis that the Government wished to establish EEA as a
financially viable entity with a level of earnings high enough to provide for
some of EEA's future expansion after meeting operating expenses and debt
service obligations, Loan 1453-EGT required EEA to achieve for the first time
a 9 percent rate of return in 1979 on its revalued assets, on the basis of a
plan to be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1978.  At the time, however,
it was recognized that compliance with this covenant might be quite difficult
and would have required very substantial tariff increases. The covenant was
meant primarily to enable the Government, EEA and the Bank to exchange views
on this issue and was so recorded in a supplemental letter. The Bank was
prepared to review the situation once the above-mentioned plan would be
received from EEA, and,'if necessary, to agree on appropriate modifications of
the target.
58.       Although EEA has not yet submitted such a plan we have reviewed the
matter with them and the Government in detail, both during appraisal and
subsequently. Given the context of the country's and EEA's situation, it
would be unrealistic to require EEA to achieve the agreed rate of return
target in one year. A gradual movement towards this aim is consequently
proposed i.e., for EEA to achieve a minimum return on revalued assets of 5
percent in 1980, 6 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982 and 9 percent in 1983
and thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). These targets would be applied
to the consolidated results of EEA and the seven distribution companies which
were established on January 1, 1979, as subsidiaries of EEA. Specific
measures, including tariff increases, required to achieve the 5 percent 1980
target would be decided upon after the Government and EEA would have reviewed
the recommendations of the tariff study by French consultants (SOFRELEC), now
in progress (para. 34), and agreement with the Bank on such measures and their
timing is a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (c)).
Subsequently EEA would present to the Bank by November of every year a plan on
how it proposes to achieve the agreed target rate of return for the subsequent
year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(b)).
Arrears
59.       EEA has always had difficulty in collecting its bills from munici-
palities, Government industrial enterprises and other public sector entities.
Although Government and EEA have been moving to reduce EEA's accounts receiv-
able by the end of 1978 to no more than the equivalent of 3 months' sales, as
agreed under Loan 1453-EGT, this target was not achieved. In fact, the
overdue accounts increased from LE 51 million at the end of 1975 to LE 60
million at the end of August 1978. However, since then substantial progress
has been achieved and, at negotiations EEA and the Government confirmed that
(i) Government agencies have settled to EEA all overdue electricity bills
through 1977; and (ii) that EEA's arrears have been reduced to less than 3
months' sales. However, this is likely to be a continuing problem with
effects on EEA's liquidity position. The Government and EEA have consequently
agreed to take all measures to keep the outstandings to no more than the



- 19 -
equivalent: of 3 months' sales and the Government has agreed to cause its
agencies at all times to limit their arrears on EEA's electricity bills to no
more than 3 months (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(b) and Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.03(a)).
Other Financi-l Covenants
Debt Serv:Lce Limitation
60.       Under Loan 1453-E.GT, EEA agreed to obtain the Bank's prior consent
to any borrowing it plans to undertake whenever its internal cash generation
is not sui-ficient to cover its debt service at least 1.5 times in any future
year. In calculating amortization of long-term debt, EEA had agreed that it
would revalue all foreign debts at the end of each year in accordance with
the current rates of exchanige obtainable by EEA. EEA has agreed to extend
this covenant also to the proposed loan, credit and Special Action credit
so that EEA and the Bank could keep under review EEA's assumption of debt
liabilities and ensure that they do not exceed prudent levels (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.05).
Audit
61.       EEA's accounts are audited by the Government's Central Auditing
Organization. The audits are comprehensive and thorough. However, timely
completion of the auditors' report has been a problem mainly due to delays in
stock-taking and to difficulties in reaching agreement between EEA and the
auditors on actions required by the latter before finalizing the report. EEA
is given the opportunity after it receives the auditors' report to respond
to the criticism made and to indicate the corrective action it considers
necessary. In view of the past delays in complying with the audit comments,
EEA has now agreed to initiate by October 31, 1979 and thereafter complete,
corrective action on the Audit Report for 1977 in accordance with a plan of
action to be agreed with the auditors (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02(b)). With
the expected improvement in its inventory management and accounting, EEA
considers that the past delays in the submission of the audited financial
statements and Audit Report to the Bank would be eliminated within about three
years. Accordingly EEA has agreed to the audit provision under Loan 1453-EGT
being extended to the proposed loan, credit and Special Action credit (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.02(a)). For the years 1978 and 1979, the Bank would
extend the time limit for the submission of the audited accounts and audit
report to 9 months from the existing 6 months, and for the year 1980 to 7
months.
Environmental Impact
62.       Current Egyptian air pollution limitation standards are more strin-
gent than those recommended by the Bank or required by USA (EPA). Once the
project is in operation the resulting ground level air pollution is expected
to be less than the maximum standards recommended by the Bank. The Government
and EEA have further confirmed that, as designed, the project would not result
in air pollution levels exceeding those allowed under current Egyptian law.
In additiLon the project consultants would carry out an in-depth review of the



- 20 -
environmental impact of the plant, particularly with respect to sulphur
dioxide emissionsand their ground level concentration. The Government has
also confirmed that the heat discharge from the plant (the only water
pollutant) in the Nile would have no adverse effect on aquatic life in the
river.
Benefits and Justification
63.       The project will help meet Egypt's electricity load demand for
1984/85 as part of the least-cost system expansion program developed to meet
the country's future demand for electricity. The project would meet primarily
the growing needs of industry (which currently accounts for about 65 percent
of electricity consumption), but would also serve the rural and urban popu-
lations who would be supplied with electricity under on-going distribution
projects financed by the Bank and other aid donors.
64.       The project includes only two out of the three 300-MW units to
be built at Shoubrah El Kheima and enough transmission to interconnect the
plant with the system. The justification for the project must therefore be
considered on the basis of the complete Shoubrah scheme (900 MW), rather than
on the project alone (600 MW). The main benefits are the incremental sales
of electricity attributable to the Shoubrah plant. Other benefits comprise
fuel savings through substitution of electricity from the plant for higher
cost fuels, extra tax revenues and connection charges. The main adjustment to
the financial cost relates to the fuel (mazout), the internal price of which,
payable by EEA, has remained unchanged for over 20 years at LE 7.50 per ton,
as compared with its current international price of about LE 54 per ton. If
the incremental electricity sales attributable to Shoubrah are valued at the
average 1978 tariffs, the resulting rate of return is about 4 percent.
65.       The low rate of return reflects the low electricity tariffs in
Egypt and indicates that tariff levels are set below the economic cost of the
resources used to produce electricity, a result of the system of subsidized
prices for essential goods and services. The tariff study financed under the
first loan would formulate a tariff structure for high voltage consumers
based on marginal-cost pricing principles. If the proposed higher tariffs
estimated to be required to achieve the rate of return covenant are assumed to
reflect the consumers' willingness to pay for electricity, the rate of return
on the project would be about 8 percent. It is expected that the forecasted
demand for electricity will not be altered as a result of the increased
tariffs because 60 percent of that demand is attributed to Government-owned
enterprises that are considered essential to the national development strategy.
66.       Both rates of return understate the true return on the project
principally because electricity is undervalued in the analysis. The value
of electricity to the economy could not be quantified and as a result the
tariffs were used as a proxy for the value of the project output. In the
analysis the tariffs,and in turn a major proportion of the benefits, are based
on domestic prices for the resources while most of the cost associated with
the project are based on international prices, i.e. wages and price of fuel.
Since the domestic prices are set by the Government below international
prices, the value of the benefits attributed to the project is depressed
relative to economic costs.



- 21 -
Risks
67.       Due to scarcity of local construction capability, long delays are
being experienced in similar EEA thermal power plant projects currently under
construction.  To reduce the possibility of similar delays unde. the proposed
project, EEA has agreed to delegate responsibility for project management
to the project consultants. In addition, prequalification of all civil works
and installation contractors will contribute to reducing the possibility of
delays attributable to inadequate contractor performance (para. 53).  Although
minimal under current expectations of fuel supply, unacceptable degradation of
the environment would result if adequate quality fuels were not made available
to the project (para. 49). Other project risks would be non-compliance of EEA
with the provisions of the rate of return covenant primarily as a result of
difficulties in increasing tariffs, EEA's inability to collect its accounts
receivable due on sale of electric power, and difficulties with the satis-
factory operation of the distribution companies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Egyptian Electricity Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab
Republic of Egypt and the Bank, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement
between the Association, as Administrator, and the Arab Republic of Egypt, and
the Reports of the Committees provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of th,e Association and in Articles III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately.
69.       Features of the Development Credit, Loan, Special Action Credit and
Guarantee Agreements of spe,cial interest are referred to in Section III of
Annex III.
70.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the credits and loan are:
execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and EEA
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a) and Special Action Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01(b)); agreement with the Bank on measures required to
enable EEA to reach a minimum 5 percent rate of return in 1980, and on their
timing (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(c)); cross-effectiveness condition with
other cofinanciers (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)); establishment of a
Special Account (to be replenished monthly) to meet at least three months'
project expenditures which are to be provided locally (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(b)); and engagement of project consultants (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(d)).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit and Loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank respectively, and that the proposed Special Action Credit
would be in conformity with the agreement between the Association, the EEC and
its Member States dated May 2, 1978.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit, the proposed Loan and the proposed Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  5
EGYPT - SOCIAL_ 1DICATOlS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED    RACGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND So. KM.)                    EYPS                            - MOST RECENT ESTIATE)
TOTAI.           1001.4                                                     SAM          SAME     HMT HIGNER
AGRICULTURAL       29.9                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPNIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0        160.0     310.0           1438.5       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILoGRAMs OF COAL EQUIVALENr)      298.0        275.0      405.0            816.7        88.9       251.7
POPULAT'ION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                         25.8         33.3       39.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Of T0TAL) 38.0          42.1       44.6             45.8        15.0         24.2
POPUIATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Klt.                        26.0        33.0       39.0             23.2        46.8         42.7
FElR SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0       1125.0    1311.0             112.4       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
O-l.4 YRS.                          43.0        42.1       40.7             46.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.0         54.7       55.9             50.6        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0         3.2        3.4              3.3         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.6       2.2              2.9         2.4          2.7
URIIAN                               6.0          3.6       3.6              5.0         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.5         42.1      37.8             45.0        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAID)       20.7         17.0      14.0             13.7        19.7         12.4
GROS!; REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8 /f       3.0       3.0              3.4         2.9          3.2
FANM LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       206.0      184.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WBMEN)    ..            9.0      21.1             14.7        14.6         14.2
FOOD ADD NUTRITION
INDEB OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               93.5       100.0      100.0            107.1        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RtEQUIRENENTS)                    95.0       106.0      113.0             99.2        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            66.0        66.0       70.7             63.4        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0 La     16.0       16.0             16.4        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       39.3           ..         ..              ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.9           49.9      52.4             53.7        45.8         13.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            109.0        116.0     100.0             77.7       102.7         82.5
ACCE3S TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
mTrAL                                 ..          ..       74.8             59.1        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..          ..       87.7             85.9        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..       63.7             38.0        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENTr
OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                 ..          ..         ..             64.3        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             94.5        65.9         69.5
RUIAL                                 ..          ..         ..             27.7         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2500.0 /h   1910.0    1820.0  t         4271.6    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2730.0  h   1640.0  1 1520.0 E          2077.4      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              500.0 /h    460.0      460.0            580.2      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..       290.0      250.0            310.0       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 ..      2110.0    2090.0                ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..              22.0       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.0           ..       5.2              5.4         5.2
URBAN                                4.8                    5.0                 .        4.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..        5.5               ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.9           ..       1.8
URBAN                                1.6           ..         ..              1.8        1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..                         2.3
ACCESS m ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               38.0           ..      45.7             40.3        25.9         28.3
URBAN                               37.8           ..      77.0 *
RURAL                                 ..           ..       19.6             12.2         ..         10.3
* Latest estimate (January 1979) is 62 percent.



- 24 -                                         ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EGYPT
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 b       1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0         69.0       72.0             80.8        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                52.0         53.0       55.0             61.8        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0         33.0       40.0             23.6        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 9.0         21.0       28.0             18.2         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 22.0           19.0       18.0              6.7         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         38.0       40.0             31.5        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           16.0         25.0       29.0             22.3        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         20.0           ..       40.0             50.1        36.7          63.7
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          4.0        6.0             14.5         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          58.0        132.0      140.0            125.8        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9         16.0       17.0             34.5         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         22.0         ..             17.4          6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            2.0         ..               1.6         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUJSANDS)      7800.0 /]   8300.0 /k 9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7.3          7.2        7.6              9.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               57.0 /1      53.0 /k   43.9              42.0        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.2         18.8         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9         28.0       28.0             26.9        39.8          37.8
MALE                                  53.2         51.5       51.3             46.6         53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 4.2           4.1       4.3              5.3         19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8          1.8       1.8               1.9         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.2 /1          ..       21.0 /m            ..        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  48.4 71          ..       46.0  m..                    45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.6 /1          ..        5.2 /m            ..         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.1 /1          *-       16.0 /m             *-       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      154.0                ..       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      112.0            142.0        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      122.0            236.1       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       60.0            144.7        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       22.0             21.5        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       30.0             37.4        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa 6 Middle East;   /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /g  1960-62;   /h  1962;   /i  Registered, not all
practicing in the country; /1 Relates to persons six years and over, excluding nomad population;
/k Relates to 12-64 years of age, 1966; /I 1964-65; /m rural only.
September, 1978



- 25 -                                                          ANNEX I
a-'ae io f 5
DgPFINTlONS O? ROCIOI. INIDICATORS
Not..!  Although the d.te are drew  ftme source  generally judged the meet eathoritetivo and reliable, it shoold also be noted that they nay not he intr-
nationally ciump-tabl  becee of the lack of  teandardinad definitions end cofcopt. ned by diffsrent countriesInoletting the d.t..  Th. date ar.. co-thel.se,
usflt  etribe cider. of magnitude, indlicate treeds, and cheracteriee certain mejo  diff.r.nree betee  cunris
The adluated group eve,raze, for each indicator aer  popuolation-weighted geometric means  excluding the entrom    ale  of the indicator and the most
populated coontry in each group.  Coverage of cxtatrie  ameang the indicators depends on svil.bility, of dateansd is rot unfr.   _u to lsok of data,
Aroup averges for Capita1 Surplus Oil Exporter. end idctr  of access to water and e.creta disposel, housin.8  inc-me distribution and poverty are
sitoplo pop.l.tion-wnlghted geomer ic mea.- ithoutthe seclusion of axtres values.
LANDi AREA (thooxood  olq. h)                                                           Population, per hospital bed - totsl, urban, ed  oral.  - PopulAtion (total,
Total - TutalsI   fr  aacmprisiCg land are  and inland vetare.                           urban, end rural) divided by their respecc-ve number of hospital beds
ai-tul .. I most rcnot estimate of agricultural erea used temorarily                   available in puhlic and private general and sepcialized hoepital and rs-
or peomanently fo- crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardome or to                   habilitatlon  centers.  Hospital. are ast.bliehsnto permanmently staff ed by
lIes fallow.                                                                           at lsaet one physician.  Zetablishematis providing principally custodial
cars are nor included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and sedi-
iffyPER CAITA 'US,) - GMP per capit.aestimate, at currbnt market price.,                  cal centers not psramanntly staffed by a physician (but by a medical am-
Icalclard by  _me  couoarsion method as World Iamb Atlas (197$-77 bea)sis);             mist.t pulse. midwife. etc.) which offer in-patient ac.oomodation and
1961, 1970, and 1971 deta.                                                             provide a limited range of medical fecilitis..
Ad'i:i:ion  pe  hoitfldhad - Total number of ad.iations to or di.ohargas
EMERGT COMSUPOPTIONI PIN CAPITA - Annua  c-oustion of cameercial energy                   fro  lho,pitalsdtiidd  by the number of bed..
(coal and lignite, petroleum., natural gan and hydra-, nucleAr and gao-
therol electricity) in kilograma of coal aquivalani per capita.                   BilHING
Awsax  sica of household  poar-on --par bhousehold) - total, urban. ead coral -
POPULATION ANi VITAL. STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quartrer
Totali   uletio   mi-er  millio          s - A   f July 1; if nor & alable,             end thair main seals.  A boarder or lodger may or say not be included in
sveAngofEwoeh~i~iiiiit.ij960, 1970. and 1917 data.                            ths household for statistical purposes.  Statistical defi.itione of housee
Urban Population ( arcont uf total) - Rtio of urbanr to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; diff.r It definition. of urban scene may affact comparability                 Averase number of persons per room - total, urban, andrural - Average num-
of date msong countries,                                                               bar of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied convetional
PopUlation density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  D-11iogs exclude ono-parmanent atructu... ead
Per  sq. km. - MUd-year population per square kilometer (100 hactares)                  unoccupied parts..
of total area.                                                                      Accept .to a.,,LecirictLy (prcent ofdwellings) - totalI, uban. end rural -
per sq. ke. agriculture land - Computed as shovs f or agricultural land                 Conetiona dI llog ith e               leticity in liin  quarte. a. parcanage,
only.                                                                                 of total. urbap  anmd rural dwellings respectively.
Population as. eotoxtur. (percept) - Children (0-14 years) * workig-age
(15-64 ymears), and retired (65 yanra and over) as poarcetag.. of mid-            EDSCATIOO
Year popalstion.                                                                   Ad uste  enrollmet ratios
Poplaio  aowblt* (osrcant) - total. and urban - Compound annual                        Primary school - total, and female - Total and female sorollmnt of all ages
growth ratea of total and urban mid-year populetiona for 1950-60,                      at the primary lsvol as percentage. of reapactively primary school-age
160-7i an"d 1941-75                                                                   populations; normally includes childre  &agd h-li year. but adjusted for
'Crude birth rate (lir thousand) - Annul live births par th mouad of                     different lengths of primary aduca.tion; for countriea with universal adu-
mid-year populatiLonl ten-year arithaetic averages ending in 1960 and                  ration enrollment may as...nd 1ff perrcent since som, pupils ara below 00
1910 and fiv-y-or avrag. ending in 1975 for meat regmet eatimate.                      above the official school agt.
Crude death ceo. ( fec thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  gecondary school - total. and femaleI  - Computed a. above; se ondary educ-
year popuietion; ten-year arithmetic averages ending1 ix 1960 and 1970                 ton requires at lesat four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fivs-yeeo av-rag  ending ix 1975 f or meet recent: -timanat.                       vidas g.n..o v-1   nom    or teac.her training inatru.ti... f or pupil.
i.... -sp-du.tion, rats - Average number of daughtersa 5woman will beer                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coursee. are genarally
in bar moomal eaproductiv& pariod if she apcene proeant age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usalIly five-year averalas ending in 1960.                 oatoa   nrolluat (percent of secondary) - Vocetional institutions, 10-
1970. and 1975.                                                                       c1uda technical, indust rial,or other programs which operate independantly
pamily Pla..ning -   -noptor. annual (tho... od.) -Annul numbAer of                      or as d.partmant. of secondary institution,.
acceptors of bir th-control dvcsunder auspicesa of natinonl family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. end secondary - Totel  tdatuio  enrolled.in
Planning Program.                                                                      primary sod e..coodacy levels divided by numbers of teache rs in the crre-
Paxily glancing - usars  p etIof married woa)- Peroteaga of                              spending I vl..Is
married .oxe  of child-bearing age (15-4  ya je whe us  birth-conical              Adult literacy rter  (percet) - Literate adult. (able to read and write) a
d.vicecto all married  -omn in same age group,                                         a percen.tage of total adult popul.tion aged 15 years and over.
FOil AuI LfTRIITIONI                                                                 CONSUJMPTION
Index of food production par capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 ?&Soong.r cars (per thousand population) - Pa...enger cars comprise eaton cars
caPita annual production of all fond comeedities.                                   seating l... than eight pe....nn; aecludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per -a lit. supply of calories (.ercent of ranir-ts)g~ - Computed from,                vehicles.
ene rgy eqoiv.l.nt of net food supplies available is country per capits            Radio rece.ivers (per thousand population) - All types of re...ivers f or radio
Per, day.  Available soppliee comprise domeestic Production, imports less           broadc...ts to general public pan thousand of population; ancludes unlicensed
oxp.re,%.and changea in  Itok.. Net supplies a"elude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in ountries and in years when registration of radio sae was in
quantitin   uad in fod processing. end loasse  in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recen.t years may not ha comparable since meet ...untries
quireeetu were estimated by PAO based on Physiological needs for nor-               abolished licens.ing.
aol activity and health considering onviroamanta1 temperature, body                TV rece.ivers, (per thoueand PoPulation) - TV receivera for broadcast to genorA
weigts,  ge s ..se  diatributions of population, and allowing 10 per-             pbic ,perithouan  Iooain               mlues unlicened TV rece.Iver. incu-
cet forwseachou...bold level,                                                         tri   and 10 years when rgitretion of Tv  eta wee in effect.
Per c-pit. supply of proti, pope,m  par day) -,Protein.. canten  of per              Nlev.pa- circulto   pr thousand  Souhto) -Iha the average  icu
capita. net eupply, of foo  pe  day.  Met supply of fud is defined .s                  tino of "daily general interest newpaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  teqult-neota fan all cuoutries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to reco rding general news.  It is considered to
a niniu -loaan of hi grmam  of total protein par day and 20 gram                       bs "d.iiy" if it appear. at leastc four times a weak.
01 an imal and pu,lse protein, of which 10 grams, should ha animal protein. Cinema annual attendance par capita oar y..r - gooed on the number of tickets
Theno standards era lower than those of 75 grams o1f total protein and                 sold during the year. iocluding admi.eion  to drive-in ci.-ma  and mebile
23 gram  uf aninal protei  as an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
PAl to tho Third World Pood Survey.  n   us     rti,supyo    od                   EPO
Par c-pita protelo supply from anima  n   ue      n,ansupyo.od                       DLYiM
derived from anImals ad pulse  in gram  per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons. including armed
Chil (aan i-   scialty rte  per thousand) - Annuoal death. per thens-           for..s end oemeployed but excluding hooaviv-a, etudants, etc.  Dsfini-
and in age group, 1-4 years.  to children in this asa group.                           ti... in various  -outri.s  er  not comparable.
Psmaln (erreec F- rsle labor forc  se percen-tage of total lebor forc..
HtALTH                                                                                                                        iniutr   pret)-lbrfrg1  fa-ing, foretry, hunting an  fishing
Life  -nc-t-nya  birth (year) -Average number of years nf life                            pasprcenage of total labo  foce
remaioiog at birth; usually five-year averags ending in 1960, 1970.                 Industry (perc..nt) - Labor foote in mining, c.ontructi.n, manufacturing and
end 1975.                                                                              slnrctity, water and ga, me percentage of total labor faro..
Infant eurcality rt  (prtosn) Annual deaths nf infants under                         Particpation rter (percent) _ tota,  mal, and faemle - Total,l male, and
cooe year of age per thousand live birhis.                                             female, labor force am p.rcooteges of their respective populations.
Acc... cc sate water (pe!rcent of Ppupl!ati"a' - totl  uran  ad.;rural -                 Thsseers ILts adjusted participation rats, reflecting  l-e
Number of people (total, urban, ed rural) with rag..       bd  cce  to                  .trucur  of .tePoPUlation, aod long ti-n trend.
o  to atr supply (inld.treatred Sur faee  watersor untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to
uOctumna    aarsch athtfr   protcted brehol.a. epringa,                             the labor forc- 10 age group of I5-b4 yearn.
and san itary walls) aspercentages of tbeir respective Populations.
In  -c  lba,ara,   public fo...t.i. or standpost located not mere                  IMCOME DISTRIBIfION
than 21      tefomahous  ma.y.be  osdrda  bein  witbio ran-                        Percentage, of pivat11e in.om   (both in cash end kind) received by richest 5
tcnu blroczean  of that hous.   Ic lruralareas reasonabl  ace   wuld                   Percent.rchest!t20 percent, poorest 20 pet-et, and poorest h0 pe-tot
inply that the ho--aif. or membere of the h.usahold do nor hav  tO                     ofhcu..eho1de.
upnnd a dioproportionate Part of the day in fetobing the femily'.
stoc ro..ped                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUIP
Acc-ntcec-ta dinoc...aI  Crent cipplain    total, urban, end                          Zstimated absolute poverty incom level (US$ oct capita) - urban and total 
rurul    Ounhrof  eople(total,uban, and rural) served by angreta                  Abeolute poverty income level is that ioconn level below which a minimal
dlupo...l  as porcencagee of their repective populations.  Emortsi                     cutritio...lly adequate diet plu .. ...ntia1 non-food requirements i5 not
6,upo..oImay iecludo the colcioand di.poeal, with or without                           affordable.
troacnoci, of huma  -nret:.a,d waste-water by water-borne systaem                   Estimated relative poverty incom  level (01$per ca,pita) - uban end rurl.-
oth   oof pit prive n   imiela  installation.s.                                  Relative poverty inoalvli   hticm   ee   esthan cone-third
Pucciclcoper pyolcan -population divided by number of practicing                  per capita Personal  income ci the country.
phyaliun..  quolified f-o  a medical school at univerality level,                   Estimated p.pulati.. bal1w poverty in.cma level (pe-cet) - urban end rural-
Popolat.u Par I-ri.g parc ..  . Populto  divided by nuber nf                             Percsnt ofp ppulatio .(u.rban  nd rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
pracic ug  aleandfemale graduate curses, practical our.se, and                    "relativ  por   hic~hever  egre.ten.
Econ...ic aod Social Inte Division
E-onoic Analysis and Projections flaportmant



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                            age 4
Page 4 of 5pages
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        X                         1961-66-/        1967-74!/         1975-7Rl/
GNP at Market Prices           13,520        100.0                         5.4              3.6              15.0
Gross Domestic Investment        4,040        29.9                        10.7              5.4               28.5-
Gross National Saving            3,110        23.0                         3.0             -7.0             117.0
Current Account Balance       - 1,580          6.8
Exports of Goods, NFS            3,620        15.7                         4.3              6.2               7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            6,240        27.0                         8.8              9.2               7.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                  Labor Force,3                       V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %               Mln.       %                         US $          %
Agriculture                       3,340       29.0              4.162    41.2                         800        15.9
Industry4/                        3,420       29.7             1.903    18.9                        1,800        35.6
Distributive Sector               2,210       19.3             1.557    15.4                        1,420        28.2
Services                          2,530       22.0             2.472    24.5                        1,020        20.3
Total/Average            11500/2875    100.0             -10.09    100.0                                   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government5
US$ Mln.       . of GNP
1978     1973       1978
Current Receipts                       5,090     32.7       37.7
Current Expenditure                    5,030     29.0       37.2
Current Surplus                           60      3.7        0.4
Capital Expenditures                   2,740     11.8       20.3
External Assistance (net)              1,180       1.3       8.7
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                    1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       1207       1515       1883      2417       3185       4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector                1852       2338       3527      4123       4775       6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector                102        149        230       251        434        570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           31.7       36.1       38.5      38.5       43.4       48.3
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)         100.0      112.4      119.1     131.4      145.0      171.1
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                       10.4       12.4        6.0       10.3      10.4       18.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 9.6       26.2      50.9       16.9       15.8       26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               10.9       46.1      54.4        9.1       72.9       31.3
NOTE   All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of 1'$1.496 = 1 LE.
1/  At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/  At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
4/  Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/  Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable
EM1DA
May 29, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975      1976       1977       19781/                                    US$ Mln.        %
(USs million)
Cotton                      354         19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS            2,194      2,759      3,536      3,620           Yarn and textiles            364         20.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          -4,931    -4,910    -5,486    -6,240               Petroleum                   441          24.7
Other agriculture           224         12.5
Imports of Foreign                                                                All other commodities       405          22.6
Oil Companies                  -164       -281       -401       -420
Total                  1,788        100.0
Workers' Remittances               366        755        896      1,750
Interest (net)                   -104       -202       -206       -290
Net Transfers                      262        553        690      1,460
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT), DECEMBER 31, 1978
Balance on Current Accouat   -2,639    -1,879    -1,661    -1,580
Amortization                      -600       -734       -812       -930                                               US$ Mln.
Total Deficit                  -3,239    -2,613                 -2,510
Public debt, incl. guaranteed        9,221
Direct Foreign Investment          165        342        504        570           Repayments on public debt              930
Grants                           1,076        792        445        200           Interest on public debt                390
MLT Borrowing                    2509       1,622      3,027      2,510
3,750     2,756       3,976      3,280
Other Capital (Net)               -152        236      -961        -250           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978Y-         24.0%
Residual                          -421       -334       -347       -449
Increase in Reserves (+)           -62         45        195         71
Gross Reserves (end year)          294        339        534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
of which:  Petroleum         -477       -388       -250       -200
Exports
of which:  Petroleum          164        268        600        730
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Rate of Exchange             1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979
(US$ : LE)                                                                              3/
Official Exchange Rate    2.5343   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556             --
Parallel Market Rate        1.70      1.70      1.57      1.50      1.43      1.43      1.43
(Sept.)            (Feb.)   (May)
1/ Estimates
2/ Ratio of debt servicE to exports of goods and
non-factor services and factor services.
3/ As of January 1, 1979, official exchange rate has been                                                     EMlDA
abolished except for some bilateral transactions.                                                          May 4, 1979



- 28 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                    Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                     less cancellations
Numbers            FY        Borrower        Purpose                                Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR           60          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5      _2
Cr 181-UAR           70          UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                     --    26.0           2.3
Cr 284-UAR           72          ARE           Railways I                              __    30.0           1.0
Cr 393-UAR           73          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                    --    36.0           7.0
Cr 412-UAR           73          ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/          --    15.0           0.5
Cr 423-UAR           74          ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation           --    18.5           4.1
Cr 437-UAR           74          ARE           Population                              --      5.0          0.3
Cr 484-UAR           74          ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                       --    20.0           2.8
Cr 524-ECT           75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                          --    35.0          0.8
Ln 1062-EGT          75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                         35.0      --         1.2
Ln 1064-EGT          75          SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0      --         31.3
Ln 1085-EGT          75          ARE           Tourah Cement                          40.0      --7
Ln 1098-EGT          75          ER            Railways II                            37.0      --        12.5
Cr 548-EGT           75          ARE           Telecommunications                      __    30.0          9-1
Cr 576-EGT           76          ARE           Development Industrial Bank II I/    --    25.0            41.8
Ln 1239-EGT          76          APA           Alexandria Port                        45.0      --        4.8
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76           ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0      --6.8
Cr 637-EGT           76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                 --    40.0         35.8
Ln 1285-ECT          76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0      --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76          ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0      --        55.2
Ln 1369-EGT          77          AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                56.0                5512
Cr 681-EGT           77          ARE           Education                               --    25.0         13.0
Cr 719-EGT           77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  --     27.0        2177 5
Ln 1439-EGT          77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 27.0      --        12.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77           ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 12.0      __        41.2
Ln 1453-EGT          77          EEA           Regional Electrification               48.0      --15.2
Ln 1456-EGT          77          ARE           Industrial Imports                     70.0      --         1.8
Ln S-005-EGT         77          ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and              2.5      --
Engineering                                             69.3
Ln 1482-EGT          78          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0      --         1.3
Cr S-20-EGT          78          ARE           Water Supply Engineering                --      2.0        53.0
Cr 774-EGT           78          ARE           Telecommunications II                   --     53.0        38.8
Ln 1533-EGT          78          DIB           Development Industrial Bank III        40.0      --        32.0
Cr 830-EGT           78          ARE           Agricultural Development                --    32.0        13.7
Cr 831-ROT           78          ARE           Urban Development                       --    14.0        25.0
Cr 850-EGT           79          ARE           Second Population                       --    25.0        40.0
Cr 868-EGT 3/        79          ARE           Second Education                        --    40
Ln S-14-EGT 3/       79          ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering    11.0    --            11.0
and Technical Assistance
79         ARE           Tourism4/                               --    32.5       _32-5
Totals                                                                               742.0  531.0
Of which has been repaid                                                              56.5
Total now outstanding                                                                685.5
Amount sold                                                              7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                 6.0            1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                        684.0  531.0      809.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business                      Loan          Equity       Total
1976          Arab Ceramic Company         Ceramic Industry                      4.25            .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977          Nile Clothing Company        Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.40           0.20         0.60
1978          Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                      20.0             2.00       22.00
(Plus 1.0 standby commitment)        (23.00)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                      Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1,/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1979.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway ProJect; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling items, originally Sep-
tember 30, 1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1979; the credit account for
the parts allocated to other items was closed on December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Over 50 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains is almost complete, and full completion is expected by end-1980, i.e.,
1 year behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is progressing
satisfactcrily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; tUS$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: Septezkber 30, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects
and over 90 percent has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Proiect; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed in 1981-82. The foreign cost of the project ($43.8 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works. Recently, the project has also encountered delays because of shortage
of local funds.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is expected to be completed in 1979, although reduced in
scope from the original proposal. About 94 percent of the credit has been
disbursed; remaining funds are mainly for software activities.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by July 1979 or 19 months behind schedule, partly because of delays
in civil works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.9 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Five out of six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed. The Government has requested
that the unutilized balance of the loan and credit be used for an extension of
some of these studies. These additional studies are designed to either turn
pre-feasibility studies prepared in the context of the sector studies into
feasibility studies, as in the case of a proposed pulp and paper and possibly
another textile project, or to follow up on issues identified in the context
of the sector studies, such as the need for a brick master plan. While
preparation of the pulp and paper feasibility study is almost completed, the
additional studies are expected to be contracted shortly and completed by end
1979. An extension of the Closing Date until December 31, 1979 has, there-
fore, been granted to allow further disbursements for the above studies under
the technical assistance component of the project.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                      Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated. The financial situaLtion of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and
revenues are both considerably higher than expected at appraisal.  Procurement
is proceedIing well.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February L0, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is almost completed (95
percent). Most items are already on site awaiting erection. After initial
difficultLes with the civil works contractor the rate of construction has now
somewhat accelerated. However, delay in start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be about 1-1/2 years.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock, despite the receipt of new locomotives and spare parts. ER
is implementing the recommendations of its consultants, TRANSMARK, with regard
to ER's traction and rolling stock maintenance facilities.  Track maintenance
is lagging far behind program, principally because of a lack of traction for
work trains but also because effort is directed to the construction of new
lines. The 1979/83 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which economic justification is doubtful. The finan-
cial situation continues to suffer and a deficit of LE 33 million is forecast
for 1978, although freight tariffs of between 70% to 100% have recently been
approved which should ameliorate the situation.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction. Tariffs for inter-
national telecommunications services were increased in July 1978.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed and $23.8 million have been dis-
bursed as of April 30, 1979.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected but is
now active. Consultants have completed the engineering preparation of
dredging and berth construction, and the works are under tender. Procurement
action on Bank-financed equipment and material is underway. Management
consultants are helping to implement the measures recommended in Phase I of
their study.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Work on the drain-
age and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although behind
schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project is now over two years
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected. Construction
of open drains is on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement
of equipment for making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year to a year and a half delay
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The
project is now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local
currency) more than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works.
In part this is due to the increased price of building materials recently
approved by the Government; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this,
although some government equity contribution would be required in the next
two years to supplement the companies' internal cash generation in order to
adhere to the financial covenants as well as project costs. Early management



- 33 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
project implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting initial delays in procurement. However, between 70-85 percent of
contracts for machinery and equipment have now been awarded and the balance
is expected to be awarded in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date:  July 6, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
With the exception of the water treatment plants and civil works,
all contracts have been awarded for the Bank financed components under the
project. Bids for the treatment plants are now being evaluated and bidding
for civil works is in progress.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is proceeding satisfactorily. All technical assistance contracts
have been awarded. Procurement of equipment and furniture under the project
is well advanced. Technical problems have been encountered with the construc-
tion of the two Technical institutes which needed to be redesigned, resulting
in a two year delay for this project item. However, the other 45 institutions
are expected to open classes as scheduled.
Cr. No. 7].9-EGT, Ln. No. 14,39-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project:; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 11, 1983.
Design work for the project is well advanced. Implementation is
behind schedule although ccnstruction on the open drains has begun.  Tender
documents for the pumping stations have been issued.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, L977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. All contracts
for electrification equipment and materials have been awarded and construction
has started. Consultants for the extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey
and for the Tariff Study are in the field. Contracts for the review of
safety and inspection procedures and for training services have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - IndustriLal Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The progress of commitment and disbursement of funds under the
project has been slow because of problems associated with the administration



ANNEX II
- 34 -                      Page 7 of 8
of the loan and procurement difficulties arising from the sub-borrowers' lack
of knowledge of Bank guidelines. Furthermore, until November, 1978, foreign
exchange proceeds of the loan were available to sub-borrowers in the public
sector only against cash payments in local currency which suppressed demand
from firms who were short of cash in local currency. Since November, 1978,
government has been making funds available as subloans which has solved the
resource constraint. The Bank has also agreed to simplify procurement pro-
cedures for private sector sub-projects costing less than $100,000 to expedite
disbursement. As of April 30, 1979 about $20 million had been committed and
$12 million disbursed under the project. In addition about $19 million in
projects involving equipment for public firms have been approved by the Bank.
In aggregate, about 56% of funds have been committed or approved and about 17%
actually disbursed. At the Government's request the Bank has agreed to
postpone the closing date for the loan to December 31, 1980 to allow for
additional disbursements.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies are expected to submit feasibility studies by May 1979.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Both dredging contracts to be financed by the Bank have been awarded.
Dredging and other civil works are making good progress. Tender documents for
equipment have been drawn up and are currently being reviewed. Project
planning and supervision arrangements are progressing well.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants were mobilized in November 1978 and their interim report
was completed in early April 1979.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
April 30, 1979 $1.2 million had been disbursed; $8 million have been committed
and $3.8 million of subprojects are under review. The balance of the Loan is
expected to be committed before the end of 1979.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                      Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 3., 1981.
Project implementation has started. Specifications for the equip-
ment and materials to be financed under the Credit are being prepared. A Gov-
ernment request for reallocation of credit proceeds is under consideration.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit uf
July 24, 1978; Effective Date:  February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The implementing agencies are making satisfactory progress toward
identifying sub-project actLvities.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation has started.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation has started.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 5-.14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
25, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



ANNEX III
- 36 -                            Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SHOUBRAH EL-KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by EEA to prepare project:   Nine months (April 1978 to
February 1979)
(b)  Agency which has prepared project:         Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA)
(c)  Project first presented to the Bank:    February 1978
(d) First Bank mission to consider
project:                                  February 1978
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                  October 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:        May 16, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            November 30, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
Special conditions of effectiveness of the credits and loan are:
execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and EEA (para.
51); agreement with the Bank on measures required to enable EEA to reach a
minimum 5 percent rate of return in 1980 (para. 58); cross effectiveness
condition with other eofinanciers (para. 51); establishment of Special
Account (to be replenished monthly) to meet at least three months' project
expenditures which are to be provided locally (para. 52); and engagement
of project consultants (para. 53).
Other special conditions are:
(a)  Government would establish by December 31, 1979 an Inter-
Ministerial Coordinating Committee on Energy (para. 35).
(b) The 7 distribution companies, subsidiaries of EEA, would start
operations with the help of consultants to be engaged not later
than October 31, 1979 (para. 44).



- 37 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) EEA (together with the 7 distribution companies) would achieve a
minimum rate of return of 6 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982
and 9 percent in 1983 and thereafter (para. 58).
(d)  Government and EEA would take all measures to keep EEA's accounts
receivable for the sale of electricity to not more than the
equivalent of 3 months' sales; and Government would cause Govern-
ment agencies at all times to limit their arrears on EEA's
electricity bills to no more than 3 months (para. 59).
(e) Government would (i) build additional fuel pipeline capacity as
necessary to supply the Project, and (ii) take prompt action to
allocate gas in line with the accepted recommendations of a gas
utilization study (para. 49).
(f)  EEA would make suitable project monitoring arrangements
(para. 53).
(g)  Government would provide EEA with funds to meet interest and
other charges durirLg construction on the Bank loan and the
Subsidiary Loans (para. 52).






IBRD 14221R
GREECEW     TR KE Y                                                                                                                               APRIL 1979
Sam U           K ' BA QE                                     ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
RAB OR[)ANz                              EC7YPTIAN  ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
L I BY A  *REPJBL          SADI
OF t EG0PP t X; ARBIA                       SHOUBRAH  EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
',.X-.   L-  -\                                                           ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
CHAD
C   SU C                                                             0            00         200          300
1'S U D A( N   TOP                                                                  KILO     AlETERS
.   26                                         30                                              34'       /      * i  Propoxed ThernnoI Powie Pro1ecr
/   -132 kV T..s..sorLie
/        -_   =  220 kV Trom  ion Liies
(  ~  ~    ~   ~<   A MhTROUFI      DA IE  9\  SAID                      <    J 0    _. 500 kV Tronsmission Lines
(  SALJM  BRARSA MATROUN                      -             -~~~~~~DAMETT                     ,r0132 ky S~btwi-nai
ALEXANDR          KFRE DAM~IETT~\  P
<    \   hlEXAlelt>RJ;jSAHFJKE OL  t> '>                                        6      220 kV Subsrtios;nn
- /   DAMANHURi- AL MANSJRAt       EL ARISH          < \      *  500kV Sibstotions
EL ALAMEIN                                                                                 h * - SnHr. Plnts, Existing
?    I\c SMAIL A                         UHyd,o Pla-ts, Eaisting
SHIBIN ELKM'. Ct.
30s ' tto'                                                                                     JSEZ CITY    )\30    o  Cpits od Ti-n
\         Jr  Depress,on 1/                                    GlZ&D-    _ oic  -                                  6N International Airports
s -----'                                            L   -CR                                                                R        and Da-s
0~~~j~~~  -,                              26~~~~~~~~   S~ENI              HU-AAC                               ad TDa -
<1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~re60 BS-W-d.,es,4! 
ccC  !                                                                       ACHAGHA                    
|                                      BAH.iRA           TQEL MNYA             \      ~S           rXe>^ 0             S A  U  D  I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R1                                                                                 A B, <   A I A
.   Thin   apo htsxheen xrepana hr the World S k s staf eaciilotiely for tha cxrVeai  Oc  _  /v i                 5A                     UDHURGHADAI
_of the redrrs of the report lt ohrch it in atthched  The   Wxeaotnnab,ntiused an-   the  ASSYOUT
I   biiidorres thnwn on tnts m.p do not Inyic. Dn the part oh tOe World flant and in i. Nwss    
hates. Oar,odxixent -h bdie le30al t tos 0f any temtoty or any ecd,Saatment orASMANT ASSYOLJI
SOHAG~~~~~~~~~S
Al f di t  rr a n  e     an   Sea          INSET   A                     OHAG
0                                                                         NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Ao                                                  t      r Sif   -26 'AA                                                                               26'
fOALtAt   XShei<  -<                               0 >~~  oAL KHARGA
Z%4                                                                                       -ah A <45ENA  w $
t                   ) GfTD  Mansura                                                                  PETRO- S L CON FACTOPY
JEL CAL7EL                                       L    KASSARIA                             DGPOY
BU ES MATAM E       O                      _Ii_
SADA              -   hthbn El a m      ZAG       \ ,                                         *      K
,0<    llo-iEIP  I   0   Senhca           =                                  ASVJAN DAM    wIM            o6o
\                                     FtsALAi;  K SEAL
HED.OPOL S
r \.1tORTH
10 S ORA  EL KRHEIMAA
PPOWER PROJEC 5
CA,0(: V FST     AROSp  City                                                          Ii   ls
iC:1 RAMA)AN tEt0
1-HARAM          GInS .UZ  .-.- 510                                                           /
Blrkat                              T A      r          )       ABU SIMBEL                      -.               J
E SDy\*EBLt  +t                                 r-_ _                                      _vAl   H F
Fayoum CI 7  l                                                                S          U "-JD                A       N
I   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i






IBRD 14222R
GR~E         3eT U RKEYv P         t5                                                                                                               APRIL 1979
IRAQR  IRAN                                               ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
30~~~~~~~W                     3'
LIBYA j    Ne    EGYPTIAN  ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
(ARAB RE       5 AUDI7
s. MFRAEBe0ARABIA                              SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
CHAD                             P.
dot   ,,SU DAN   9 0 ..
: \                       t \ \|  2 t(, alProposed Power Plant
Mit Haifa                                             Proposed 220kV
nor                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transmnission Lines
Urban Areas
cEi                      o                                                                      Primary Highways
AGeit 
X   0 X\X\  V \   >  t ANoM/mD/!  /                      All Other Roads
N'-onsa   MMntaieh                ,                        Railroads
Cainals
Bigam                  Baktm                   International
Boundaries
t o            h~~~T ch 's ae \\    0//
f           X       ZOA, OD-                                                                                                ______ _____
Naziet       andom  
el Zoumour          4L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Hli
El Kom el Ahmr             =e_i                                                                                                                             El
Waract el Ha-
Kafre  el Ar be~ ~ ~~ ~in e                        . l iiroc,
.c.                                                 elFara e  trirkT p  h- be Prepatoti by 'th.
IuO M E T E R S   r  B o c htil   4 ~ < ,   < /   //                              W rs tB -nk dsa  eocf - , .e r    f. ,
el  DImanie                                                                                 h tnr---r,o of the read- of
Moufti                                                Farrho d-..vtuai-o used-sd bh,
o  2  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oWorld Bask srrdfto                                                                     -j,laeoat
KILOMETER          Bah& rsupsu   of -uh b -unosoe



