Document of
The 'World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2446-EGT
EGYPT
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA. THERMAL POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 5, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1, 1979)
Currency Unit                            =  Egyptian Pound (EE)
Official Rate*
LE 1 (or 1,000 milliemes)                 =  US$1.44
LE 1,000                                  =  US$1,440
LE 1,000,000                              =  US$1.44 million
LE 0.69                                   =  US$1.00
* Unless otherwise indicated all conversions of foreign currencies to Egyptian
Pounds in this report are based on the Parallel Market Rate of Exchange of
LE 1 = US$1.40 applicable before the fixing of the new official rate
on January 1, 1979.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilowatt (kW)                           =  1,000 watts (103W) 3
1 Megawatt (MW)                           =  1,000 kilowatts (10 kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                     =  1,000 watt hours (103Wh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)                     =  1,000,000 kWh (106kWh)
1 kilometer (km)                         =  1,000 meters (103m)
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)                   =  1,000 volt amperes (103VA)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)                   =  1,000 kilovolt amperes (103kVA)
1 microgram (ug)                         =  1 x 10 6gram
1 hertz (Hz)                              = 1 cycle/second
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EEA    -  Egyptian Electricity Authority
EEC    -  European Economic Community
EIB    -  European Investment Bank
EdF    -  Electricite de France
IDA    -  International Development Association
MEE    -  Ministry of Electricity and Energy
OPEC   -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
REA    -  Rural Electrification Authority
S&P    -  Sanderson & Porter, Inc.
SWECO  -  Swedish Consulting Group
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
WASP   -  Wien Automatic System Planning Program
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



STAFF APPRtAISAL REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE POWER AND ENERGY  SECTOR  .........................1
Power  and Energy  Resources  ..........................1
Energy  Sector Organization  ..........................                                    2
Energy  Sector  Planning  ..............................                                   3
Bank Group Participation  in the  Sector  ....                    ..........               3
Access to Electricity ........................ .                                           4
Existing Power Facilities  ...........................                                     5
Operating  Problems  ..................................                                    5
Power Development  Program  ...........................                                    5
Planning  ............................................                                     6
Rural Electrification  ...............................                                     6
Tariff Levels  and  Structures  ........................                                   7
II.    THE  BORROWER/BENEFICIARY  .............................                                    8
Legal  Structure  ......................................                                   8
Organization  and Management  .........................                                    9
Employment and Training ........................,.10
III.     THE PROJECT  .........................................                                    11
Description  ..........................................                                   11
Fuel  Supply  ..........................................                                  12
Project  Cost Estimate  .......................                     .....                 12
Project  Financing  Plan  ....................... .....                                   14
Environmental  Considerations  .........................                                  15
Implementation  ........               ...............................                   16
Procurement  ..........              ...............................                      17
Disbursement  .........              ...............................                      18
Risks  .       ..............................................                             18
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Roa (Engineer), P.A. Cordukes (Finan-
cial Analyst), T.B. Russell (Economist), I. Mathai (Financial Analyst) I.I.
Elwan (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of UUtLbCLILS wuonaLriued)                                           Page No.
IV.   FINANCE .............................................               18
Budget         ..............................................       18
Accounts         ............................................       19
Revaluation of Assets ......       .........................        20
Past Performance and Present Position of the
Borrower         ..........................................      21
Earnings Review ......       ...............................       21
Collection of Electricity Supply Bills ........ ......              22
Interest During Construction .....      ...................        22
Liability for Income Tax .....       .......................       22
Financing Plan          ......................................     23
Future Performance ..................   ................           25
Debt Service Covenant ......       .........................        26
Audit         ...............................................       26
Insurance         ...........................................      27
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ................   .. .............           28
A.   The Power Market ...............................               28
Past Trends ....................................              28
Load Forecast ..................................              28
B.   Comparison of Alternatives .....        ................      30
C.   Return on Investment ...........................              32
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........ ......              33
ANNEXES
1.1 MEE Organization Chart
1.2 EEA's Available Generating Capacity, 1978-1986
1.3 EEA's Available Net Generation, 1978-1986
1.4 Power Sector Development Program, 1978-1986
1.5 Main Tasks to be Covered in Load Management Study
2.0 EEA Organization Chart
3.1 Project Cost Estimate
3.2 Project Implementation Schedule
3.3 Tentative Contract List
3.4 Estimated Disbursement Schedule, Bank/IDA
3.5 Estimated Disbursement Schedule, EEC Special Action Fund
4.1 Income Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 1976-1986
4.2 Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1976-1986
4.3 Sources and Applications of Funds
4.4 Index of International Inflation, 1955-1990
4.5 Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
5.1 Power Sector Statistical Data, 1967-1977
5.2 Actual and Forecast Sales by Consumer Categories, 1978-1999
5.3 Projected Sales to Large Industrial Consumers, 1978-1985



Table of Contents (Continued)
5.4 Load Forecasts
5.5 Description of WASP Program
5.6 Comparison of Alternatives
5.7 Comparison of Sites
5.8 Return on Investment
6.0  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP - IBRD 14221R
- IBRD 14222R






I. THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
Power and Energy Resources
1.01      Apart from relatively small imports of coal for metallurgical
requirements, Egypt is self-sufficient in energy at present: and is a net
exporter of fuel. The principal energy resources are hydrocarbons and hydro-
power. Recoverable oil reserves are estimated at about 350 million tons,
representing 14 years' supply at the current annual production level of 25
million tons. Output from the major oil fields is likely to peak in the early
eighties, so that exploratory efforts would need to be intensified if Egypt
is to remain a net exporter of energy over the next decade.. Associated gas
is produced in conjunction with production of oil, currently at the rate of
about 200 million cubic feet a day. In addition, recoverable reserves of
non-associated gas from known fields, onshore and offshore, are put at 3.5
trillion cubic feet. Current plans to use associated gas and develop non-
associated gas would result in the eventual replacement of oil to the extent
of 4 million tons per annum.
1.02      The River Nile accounts for virtually all the conventional hydro-
power potential. About 80% of the Nile's potential has already been harnessed
at the Aswan Dam (345 MW installed capacity) and Aswan High Dam (2,100 MW).
Some 350 MW more are expected to be developed by about 1990 by an extension
of the Aswan Dam and the improvement of three existing barrages. There are
several suitable sites for pumped storage schemes in the vicinity of Cairo and
the Gulf of Suez. The only other potential source of hydropower is the Qattara
Project, which would utilize the drop of 60 meters between the Mediterranean
and the Qattara Depression in the Western Desert to channel sea water along an
80-km canal for the generation of electricity. This would provide 640 MW of
firm power for 12 years while the Depression was filling, and 340 MW thereafter
from the water flowing into the Depression to replace that lost by evaporation.
A feasibility study financed by the Federal Republic of Germany is in progress.
1.03      Other commercial energy resources, actual or potential, are coal,
oil shale, solar energy and geothermal energy. Coal reserves in the Western
Desert and Sinai are estimated at around 100 million tons, but economically
exploitable reserves are put at only 35 million tons, all in Sinai. These
are too small for power generation and also not of coking quality, so that
blending with up to 75% of imported coal would be necessary for metallurgical
purposes. Oil shale deposits have been located in Sinai and around the Gulf
of Suez, but no estimates of reserves are available and the quality appears
to be too poor to be worth exploiting. The solar energy potential, though
at present untapped, is vast, since Northern Egypt receives 13% more direct
solar radiation than Albuquerque (New Mexico), considered one of the sunniest
regions in the USA, and Southern Egypt appreciably more. Geothermal energy
data are scarce, but the prospects ior discovering low or intermediate
temperature geothermal waters are considered good. These would not be suit-
able for power generation but might meet domestic and commercial requirements.



- 2 -
1.04      Egypt is not well endowed in non-commercial energy sources.  Less
than 3% of the country is under crops, the rest being desert or semi-desert.
Consequently, crop residuals and animal wastes are the main non-commercial
sources, currently estimated to provide one third of total energy requirements,
mostly in the rural areas.
Energy Sector Organization
1.05      Responsibility for the energy sector in Egypt rests with two
ministries: The Ministry of Petroleum in charge of oil and gas and the
Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MEE) in charge of public electricity
supply. MEE's organization chart is shown in Annex 1.1. Under MEE, the
Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) is responsible for the bulk supply
of electricity to the whole country and distribution in the Cairo and Alex-
andria areas. In the rest of the country Municipal Councils act as EEA's
agents to supply electric service at the retail level. Legislation has been
enacted to supersede this arrangement by creating distribution companies to
take over from EEA in Cairo and Alexandria and the Municipal Councils else-
where (para 2.04). Another MEE agency, the Rural Electrification Authority
(REA) is responsible for implementing the National Rural Electrification Plan
intended to extend service to outlying areas from EEA's bulk supply at 66-kV
substations. Transmission and distribution facilities at 66 kV and below
outside Cairo and Alexandria are planned, designed and built under REA. Once
tested and commissioned all REA-built installations are turned over to EEA for
operation and maintenance and the corresponding assets are reflected in EEA's
books.
1.06      Two other MEE dependencies, the Qattara Depression Authority and
the Nuclear Power Plants Authority, look after hydropower and nuclear power
development respectively. Under the present organizational structure all
commercial generating facilities developed under these two agencies would be
turned over to EEA soon after commissioning in the same manner as is done
with REA-built transmission and distribution.
1.07      The Ministry of Electricity and Energy also has four separate
companies for specialized construction work. They are the General Company
for Electrical Projects (ELEJECT), the High Dam Company for Electrical and
Mechanical Projects (HIDELCO), the General Company for Mechanical and Elec-
trical Projects (KHAROMIKA), and the Egyptian Electric Transformer Company
(EL-MACO). To strengthen their capabilities the three MEE construction
companies have formed joint ventures with foreign contractors. Similarly,
the transformer company has made licensing arrangements with foreign manu-
facturers.
1.08      MEE relations with the rest of the Government are regulated and
coordinated by the Higher Council for Electric Power made up of the Minister
of Agriculture and Irrigation, the Minister of Industry and Petroleum, in
addition to the Ministry of Electricity and Energy.



-3-
Energy Sector Planning
1.09      A joint assessment of Egypt's energy resources and planning was con-
ducted during March-July 1978 by a U'; team of experts under the management of
US Departmnent of Energy in collaborat:ion with Egyptian management and technical
officials. The binational team assessed Egypt's energy resources to the year
2000 and the energy demand and supply options which are now or will be avail-
able to Egypt by that time.  A report setting out several major observations
that can be drawn from the assessment was distributed in De!cember 1978. Major
issues are pricing, the gaps and inconsistencies present in Egypt's current
energy and related planning,and the Lack of an adequate planning data base.
In addition, the report points out the need to strengthen Egypt's current
ability to expand its energy supply capacity and Egypt's needs for continuing
assistance in establishing a comprehensive energy planning capability and in
preparing and implementing these plans effectively. These issues will be
addressed in studies to be undertaken in conjunction with the Gulf of Suez
Gas Project which is proposed for Bank financing and is being processed con-
currently with this power project.  These studies include work on petroleum
exploration, petroleum product pricing and the impact of price changes on
consumers, and a gas utilization study designed to prove reserves and recom-
mend optimal allocation of these resources among competing uses. Moreover, to
further advance the development and implementation of adequate energy policies
in Egypt, the Government would also establish not later than December 31,
1979, an Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee on Energy chaired by the
Minister of Electricity and Energy to follow up on the worlk initiated by the
Egypt/ United States joint energy assessment team. Specific tasks to be
assigned to this new Committee would be:
(a) take the lead responsibility and authority for integrated energy
planning activities in Egypt;
(b)  promote the active participation of the other agencies that may
be responsible for planning in individual sectors of the economy;
(c) coordinate the involvement: of economic, finance and budget
agencies in the energy planning activity; and
(d) establish a structured process for policy level reviews of the
final product.
The new Committee would take over and expand the functions; assigned to the
Ministerial Committee on Energy created under Prime Minister Decision No. 252
of October 26, 1974.
Bank Group Participation in the Sector
1.10      The Bank has made one loan for power in Egypt, Loan 1453-EGT ($48
million) in 1977 for regional electrification. The loan provided for rehab-
ilitation and extension of electric power facilities serving a regional
population of about 6 million people in 13 urban centers and 19 rural zones



- 4 -
outside Cairo and Alexandria. The loan also included technical assistance for
training and studies to strengthen organizational and institutional aspects of
EEA and REA. Progress on the Project can be considered good. Construction
started in the first quarter of 1979 and completion of the Project is expected
on schedule at the end 1980. In addition, the Bank was Executing Agency for a
UNDP-financed Power Sector Survey carried out in 1976-1978. Under Bank super-
vision the Survey identified areas needing immediate attention in relation to
planning, operational, organizational, and institutional improvements in the
Egyptian power subsector. Although slowly EEA is making progress in overcoming
these deficiencies through appropriate action guided by Bank-financed technical
assistance under the first power project (e.g., tariff study, strengthening of
financial administration and accounting, safety inspection services, and man-
power development and training facilities). Additional technical assistance
to improve system operation and planning is included in the proposed Project.
As an extension of the UNDP study, EEA plans to carry out, under Bank supervi-
sion, a thermal power plant maintenance project to strengthen EEA's capabili-
ties in combustion turbine and boiler technology, operation and maintenance.
1.11      No Bank Group loans have yet been made for oil and gas.  The pro-
posed gas project (para 1.09) would gather, treat and transport associated gas
from the Gulf of Suez offshore oil fields to the Suez City area. Gas from
this pipeline also would be available to the Cairo area through existing
pipeline facilities being modified under the gas project.  Non-associated gas
is available from fields at Abu Qir, Abu Madhi, Abu Gharadig and Amal. A
57-km pipeline connects the Abu Qir field with Alexandria, Damanhour and Kafr
El Dawar to supply fertilizer production and power generation. Recoverable
reserves at Abu Qir are estimated at 1.2 trillion standard cubic feet. The
Elf-Aquitaine group has recently found gas shows in this area, but the dis-
covery, although promising, is yet to be quantified. Abu Madhi's recover-
able reserves are estimated at 0.8 trillion standard cubic feet. Gas from
Abu Madhi is being piped to Talkha and Mahalla El Kubra for fertilizer and
textile production, and power generation. Abu Gharadig gas is supplied to
Cairo through a 370-km long, 24" pipeline. Available reserves are estimated
at 0.8 trillion standard cubic feet. Finally, the Amal field located offshore
in the Gulf of Suez is yet to be exploited. It has recoverable reserves
estimated at 0.4 trillion standard cubic feet. More detailed information on
Egypt's natural gas supply infrastructure will be given in the Staff Appraisal
Report on the Gulf of Suez Gas Project.
Access to Electricity
1.12      Despite vigorous efforts to expand electric service only modest
advances have been achieved. A recent Bank study on electricity services to
the urban poor in Egypt 1/ shows that only 62% of the urban population and
1/   Status of Electricity Service to the Urban Poor in Egypt, Professor
Goran Bergendahl, January 31, 1979.



- 5 -
19% of the rural dwellers had access to electric service in 1976. These are
about the same figures estimated previously during appraisal of the first
power project, Loan 1453-EGT. Electricity consumption is liow, per capita
consumption in 1976 being only about 289 kWh per annum compared with more
developed countries such as Portugal and Turkey whose per capita consumption
was about 1,230 kWh and 462 kWh per annum respectively, but it exceeds that of
most Northern African countries such as Algeria (267 kWh) and Morocco (187
kWh). However, electricity consumption for residential use should rise as
living standards improve, especially in the poorer urban areas and in the
villages. Also, industrial loads are expected to continue growing strongly in
1978-1986 as a result of large Government industrial projects (para 5.04).
Existing Power Facilities
1.13      EEA owns and operates 17 generating stations with a total capability
of 2,721 MW. Of these, 919 MW are in steam electric plants, 236 MW in combus-
tion turbines and 1,566 MW in hydro. The figure for hydro capability reflects
the limitations imposed by the irrigation programs. A detailed plant-by-plant
breakdown of system generating capacity is given in Annexes 1.2 and 1.3.
1.14      The EEA transmission systerm comprises a 500-kV interconnection
between the hydro plants in the south (Aswan) with the load centers and thermal
plants in the northern part of the country (Cairo and the Nile Delta). A 220-
kV network serves the Northern Egypt loads and a 132-kV system, generally
parallelling the 500-kV link, serves the loads in the Nile Valley and nearby
oases.  Map IBRD 14221 shows EEA's interconnected system.
1.15      Utilization voltage is 380/220 volts and system frequency is 50 Hz.
EEA's general service facilities include general office buildings in Abbassia
(Cairo) a high voltage research center and two training institutes also in the
Cairo area and various other installations all over the country.
Operating Problems
1.16      The most significant problems encountered in operating the EEA inter-
connected system are limitation of power flow from the Aswan hydro plants to
Cairo due to poor performance of the 500-kV transmission link, and inadequate
generation maintenance due to lack of sufficient reserve generating capacity
to allow for maintenance outages. Both problems are being addressed vigor-
ously by EEA's management. A transmission improvement program is under study
with the help of Swedish Consultants (SWECO) and in an addition to the several
plants under construction (para 1.17), a thermal power plant maintenance proj-
ect is expected to start in October 1979 (para 1.10).
Power Development Program
1.17      A balanced, least-cost system expansion program has been developed
by EEA with the help of consultants using up-to-date system planning techni-
ques, including the Wien Automatic System Planning (WASP) digital computer



- 6 -
programs (para. 5.07). The least-cost development program confirmed the need
for early commissioning of the available Nile hydropower at Aswan and three
existing barrages (para. 1.02). The Aswan Dam power station would be extended
by 160 MW and 190 MW more would be installed at the three existing barrages
(Esna 89 MW, Nag Hammadi 48 MW, and Assyout 53 MW). Nuclear power also has
a place in EEA's program. Although still clouded in uncertainty, nuclear
stations are being optimistically scheduled for combined operation with pumped
storage starting in 1988. Earlier scheduling is precluded by the estimated
lead-time needed for planning and executing nuclear projects in Egypt (9-10
years). Similar considerations make it necessary to schedule new hydro genera-
tion to come on the line not earlier than 1986. In the meantime, Egypt will
have to fill the growing system needs from oil and gas fired thermal power
stations (para 5.06). New steam electric generating capacity rated 300 MW
will be added to the system by the end of 1984 and 1,200 MW in 1985-1986.
Additional combustion turbine capacity committed for 1978-1986 amounts to 411
MW. Proportional expansion in transmission and distribution brings the total
estimated construction requirements of the Egyptian power sector for 1978-
1986 to LE 7.4 billion (US$10.6 billion), including escalation. The Project
makes up about 5% of the total construction program. Details of the estimated
construction requirements are shown in Annex 1.4.
Planning
1.18      Power sector planning has been improved considerably as a result
of changes made in EEA's organization in line with recommendations of the
UNDP-financed Power Sector Survey carried out under Bank supervision in
1976-1978 (para 1.10). Additional work is required, however, and EEA has
agreed to engage consultants by December 31, 1979 to carry out feasibility
studies for the next steps of system expansion in the least-cost development
program (para 1.17), by March 31, 1980 consultants for a load management study
similar to the one described in Annex 1.5, and a load research study, all
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Rural Electrification
1.19      A national rural electrification program to bring electricity to
more than 4,000 villages and some 25,000 hamlets all over the country was
started in 1971. About half of the plan's objective has been accomplished.
The balance is scheduled to be carried out in 1978-1986. The Bank is partic-
ipating in the 1978-1980 portion of the plan through loan 1453-EGT aimed at
covering 13 urban centers and 19 rural zones.
1.20      The Bank financing includes provision for a study to rank the
remaining urban centers and rural zones in order of economic merit to estab-
lish electrification construction priorities to guide investment decisions
by REA. The ranking study was completed in March 1979, and would provide
guidance to REA for scheduling the rest of the National Rural Electrifi-
cation Program.



-7-
Tariff Levels and Structures
1.21      The maintenance of stable prices for all essential goods is con-
sidered an integral part of the Government's economic and social policies.
The list of essentials, however, has varied over time, increasing from a few
consumer goods (sugar, oil, flour, etc.) in 1952 to include most of the goods
used by the industrial sector such as petroleum products, clement, steel, etc.
The cost of stabilizing prices, which is the difference between the market
determined prices for these goods and the publicly administered prices,
is covered by the Government in the form of financial or economic subsidies.
The system of financial subsidies is based on providing a minimum amount
of essential foodstuffs and clothes to all consumers (poor and others)
at prices that are below their cost to the Government. The deficit was to
be covered by profits from the consumLption of the same goods in amounts
greater than the subsidized level.
1.22      Economic subsidies, on the other hand, prevail at all levels of the
Egyptian economy and are passed through the Government's control of domestic
prices for goods and services. The subsidy is defined as the differences
between the domestic prices of exportable commodities and the price the Gov-
ernment could get by selling these commodities in the international market.
For example, for fuel oil (mazout) the economic subsidy is US$64.50/ton (the
difference between the current domestic price for fuel oil of about US$10.50/
ton and the world market price of US$75/ton). Economic subsidies are also
extended to all publicly owned enterprises by allowing them to earn a rate of
return on assets that is substantially below the opportunity cost of capital,
e.g. between 2-4% as compared to an opportunity cost of capital of about 10%.
1.23      Economic subsidy is prevalent in the power subsector because tariffs
are set below marginal cost. Under existing tariffs, average prices/kWh are
2.562 milliemes (US$0.0036) for Nag liammadi Aluminum Co., 3.354 milliemes
(US$0.0047) for Kima Fertilizer Co., and 5.075 milliemes (US$0.0072) for other
.large industrials. Smaller industrials pay 6.00 milliemes (US$0.0084)/kWh for
supply at high voltage (220 kV and 132 kV). Industrials with 500 kW or less
installed capacity pay 12.55 milliemes (US$0.0176)/kWh, Municipalities and
Distribution Companies pay 9.31 milliemes (US$0.0131)/kTWh, and all low voltage
(380/220 V) consumers--16 milliemes (US$0.0224)/kWh. These low rates reflect
the controlled price structure in Egypt (Dara 1.21). The bulk of the subsidy
accrues to industry, which accounts for about 65% of total electricity con-
sumption. The economic subsidy is borne by the economy through the domestic
price paid by EEA for petroleum products and the low rate of return the
utilities are expected to earn on their assets. The proposed pricing study
(para 1.09) would aim at evaluating the effect of discrete price increases of
goods and services in which petroleum products constitute an important input
and is expected to yield guidelines for eliminating subsidies gradually. In
the case of electricity, this would lead to tariffs based on marginal cost of
supply. The Government would take prompt action to implement accepted
recommendations resulting from the study.
1.24      Both the level and structure of the electricity tariffs are inade-
quate. The tariff level does not convey to the consumers the true cost of
electricity and fails to generate sufficient revenue to cover an appropriate



- 8 -
proportion (say, 25%-40%) of the cost of EEA's investment program. The struc-
ture of the tariff is not sensitive to the difference in cost between peak and
off-peak (seasonal or daily) and does not differentiate between large and
small domestic consumers. A tariff study by French consultants (SOFRELEC)
financed by the Bank (Loan 1453-EGT) is expected to be completed by May
30, 1979. The interim recommendations of the study and proposals for future
needed work have been submitted to the Government which is in the process
of reviewing them. However, the consultant and EEA have expressed the need
for further work on the tariffs for low voltage consumers because data on
electricity consumption of these consumers outside Cairo and Alexandria is
inadequate. Consequently, EEA would extend the consultants' contract by
August 31, 1979, to cover the additional work required.
II. THE BORROWER/BENEFICIARY
2.01      The proposed Bank Loan would be made to the Egyptian Electricity
Authority (EEA), the Borrower under the first Bank loan for power, and the
IDA credit would be made to the Government and onlent to EEA on the same
terms as the Bank loan. The terms and conditions for onlending of the IDA
credit would be the subject of a subsidiary loan agreement. Execution of
this subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Legal Structure
2.02      EBA was established in early 1976 as part of a general reorganiza-
tion of the power sector by the Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MEE).
It was constituted under Law No. 12 of 1976, which is summarized in Annex 4
of the staff appraisal report for the first power project (Report No. 1517a-
EGT). Under this law, EEA was made responsible for implementation, manage-
ment, operation and maintenance of all electric power facilities in Egypt,
and it became financially autonomous from Government to the extent that it
was able to prepare its own annual budget and 5-year plan subject to Govern-
ment approval, retain any surplus revenues for its development and contract
loans from both local and foreign sources. By-laws have since been enacted
prescribing such matters as personnel policy, salaries and wages, recruit-
ment, and procurement procedures. In personnel matters EEA has virtually no
autonomy since it is required to conform strictly to Government policy in this
area. One of the key aims of the re-organization in 1976 was to give the EEA
more autonomy from Government and subsequently, following implementation of
its by-laws, to increase efficiency. This move towards increased autonomy has
been slow and is hampered by the traditions of the past and the cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures still retained by Government. Another major modifica-
tion to EEA's legal structure pertains to the transfer of all distribution
activities to seven distribution companies effective January 1, 1979 (para
2.04).



-9-
Organization and Management
2.03      EEA is a Government-owned enterprise regulated by the Ministry
of Electricity and Energy. It is managed by the Chairman of the Board of
Directors assisted by two Deputy Chairmen, one for System Operations, and
the other for Financial and Administrative Affairs. So far the Board of
Directors has included the Heads of EEA's five regional of:Eices, representa-
tives of the Ministries of Electricity and Energy, Finance and Planning and
the Chairman of the Rural Electrification Authority (REA) (see Annex 2.0 for
EEA's organization chart). However, with the establishment of the distribu-
tion companies (para 2.04), it is not known whether the Board would continue
in its present form.
2.04      Since the first power loan in 1977, the organizational structure
of EEA has been changed to include the seven distribution companies created
as subsidiaries of EEA under a Cabinet Decree (No. 220 of 1978) signed by
the Prime Minister on March 6, 1978. These companies are formed to take over
distribution (at 11 kV and below) of electricity from the Cairo and Alexandria
zones and from the municipalities in the other zones. Shares in the new
companies are to be held 70% by EEA,, 15% by the Governorates or municipalities
and 15% by the public including employees of the companies. However, so far,
only the EEA's shares have been issued in exchange for assets acquired from
EEA. Each company will prepare its own budget for approval of the prescribed
authority and be able to retain any revenue surpluses, receive budget alloca-
tions from Government and contract 'Loans. Each company is to be run by the
Chairman of its own separate Board of Directors to be appointed by the Prime
Minister. The Boards of Directors have been established, organizational
charts have been approved, personneL are being transferrecl from the munici-
palities and from EEA, and the compianies have commenced operations with effect
from January 1, 1979. It was originally envisaged that af-ter the transfer of
functions was completed, EEA would still be responsible for provision of
certain specific services to the companies, including research, training,
foreign procurement, foreign borrowing, major maintenance, approval of work
standards and specifications and long-range planning, to be provided on a
reimbursable basis.
2.05      Under the first power loan, the Government agreed to ensure that
decisions with respect to establishment of the distribution companies would
include provisions satisfactory to the Bank for the management, ownership,
operation and maintenance of the assets, audit of the consolidated accounts
of EFA and performance of EEA's obligations under the financial covenants,
which apply to the consolidated results. This undertaking was considered
necessary because the distribution companies were expected to eventually own
and operate the assets financed by the first Bank loan.  During appraisal of
this Project, EEA requested, and the Bank agreed, that consultants be appointed
and financed under the first power loan to advise and assist it in the estab-
lishment of the distribution companies.  The Bank also proposed to EEA and
Government that the companies begin operation one at a time since it was
apparent that arrangements for simultaneous start-up of all the companies were
inadequate. This, however was not done, and all the distribution companies
have commenced operations simultaneously on January 1, 1979 (para 2.04). The



- 10 -
companies in Cairo and Alexandria should not face serious problems since they
have operated for many years as part of the existing zones; however, the other
five companies are likely to have difficulties at least during the first few
years of operations. Some of the problems they face include inadequate customer
records maintained by the municipalities, and billing and collection problems
especially in rural areas where consumers have traditionally not paid for
electricity service. Furthermore, except for Cairo and Alexandria, the com-
panies do not expect to be financially viable if existing retail electricity
rates are not increased substantially. Therefore, to ensure that the obliga-
tions of the consolidated sector (i.e., formerly EEA only, but now EEA and the
distribution companies over which EEA has management control) under the first
loan will be met and that the financial and accounting systems of EEA and the
new distribution companies are adequate, EEA would appoint consultants satis-
factory to the Bank by October 31, 1979, under terms and conditions also
satisfactory to the Bank, with a view to establishing uniform utility account-
ing systems and procedures and management information systems for EEA and the
seven distribution companies; including procedures for consolidation of EEA's
financial accounts and management information reports with those of the
distribution companies. These services would be financed under Loan 1453-EGT.
2.06      Apart from the formation of the distribution companies in 1978, EEA
created a new position of Deputy Chairman, Finance and Administration. The
other Deputy Chairman retained responsibility for operations and dispatch.
The Presidents of the five zones and Directors of the Projects Administration,
and Studies and Research Departments continue to report to the Chairman.
These changes do little to reduce the centralized control exercised by EEA's
top management. The administrative system remains cumbersome because there
is little delegation of authority, and little coordination between technical
and commercial staff. Although this position will not change rapidly,
efforts have been, and are being, made to effect improvements, e.g., the
Overseas Advisory Associates (Detroit, USA) have carried out in 1978 a series
of training seminars for top level management under USAID financing which have
been very well received by the participants from EEA. Follow-up courses are
to include middle-level managers.
2.07      In November 1978, there were several changes made at the Ministerial
level of the Government. Among these changes was the appointment of a new
Minister of Power and Energy. Further consequent management changes were
made, and this reorganization is likely to continue through the end of 1979.
This change in management is at least partly responsible for delays in imple-
menting some of the agreements reached in connection with Loan 1453-EGT (paras
2.05, 4.09 and 4.10).
Employment and Training
2.08      The EEA had about 48,000 employees at the end of 1977 compared with
about 35,000 in 1973. Of the 48,000, about 30% were in the Upper Egypt zone,
25% in Lower Egypt, 30% in Cairo (including Head Office) and the remainder
were in the Alexandria and Canal zones. About 64% were classified as techni-
cal staff and the rest were in administrative, financial and services depart-
ments. The fundamental staffing problems identified in the first power loan



- it -
remain. There is still considerable overstaffing and a severe shortage of
middle and top management level executives. Experienced and well qualified
Egyptians continue to be attracted to neighboring oil-rich countries by higher
salaries. EEA has been able to increase its salaries and bonuses about 20-30%
in the last 2 years but not enough to be competitive with Egypt's wealthier
neighbors. EEA has addressed the training needs of its top management through
the Overseas Advisory Services courses and these are expected to be extended
to middle level staff in the next phase. EEA reports that it is no longer
compelled to employ additional new graduates and ex-servicemen and has
actually achieved some reduction in staff from the maximum number of bud-
geted employees for 1977 of 50,000. In the future, EEA plans to increase
the productivity of its staff through retraining of existing employees. The
first power loan provides for technical assistance, training materials and
dormitory accommodation at EEA's two training centers near Cairo. EEA has
signed an agreement with the International Labor Organization (ILO) for the
services of a high-caliber advisor to be financed under the Bank loan and
recruited from Electricite de France (EDF). EEA is expected to follow up
this aopointment with two training specialists, one for Cairo North and the
other for Cairo South traininR center.
2.09      In the meantime, EdF has carried out a study of the vocational train-
ing needs of EEA, capable of being met through the Cairo North and Cairo South
training centers. In the EdF study, it recommended the setting up of a dis-
tribution training center near Gizah. The Bank has proposed that the next
step should be aimed at improving the overall manpower management capability
of the Authority by assisting EEA to combine the functions of manpower plan-
ning, recruitment, manpower information assessment, training, career develop-
ment and Labor relations under one organization. At present, many of these
functions are either weak, non-existent or are located within the organiza-
tion where they provide minimal assistance to management. As part of the
ongoing Bank-assisted manpower development program (para 1.10) EEA would train
staff overseas in preparation for working with consultants on load management
and load research studies (para 1.18:).
III. THE PROJECT
Description
3.01      The Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power Project comprises:
(a)  a thermal power station with two 300-MW, oil/gas-fired units
to be connected to EEA's interconnected system as the first
stage of a 900-MW plant (3x300 MW) ultimately planned for
this site;
(b) a loop of about 4 km of three double-circuit 220--kV overhead
and underground transmission lines connecting the full 900-MW
Shoubrah El Kheima capacity to the Cairo North-Cairo West
section of the Cairo 220-kV ring, plus reinforcing of about



- 12 -
5 km of the 220-kV ring and replacement of circuit breakers
at the Cairo North substation; and
(c) about 240 man-months of technical assistance to carry out load
research and load management studies and feasibility studies
for generation and transmission expansion.
3.02      The proposed plant would be located on the Nile just north of Cairo,
at the site of an old, retired EEA steam electric generating station (Map IBRD
14222).
Fuel Supply
3.03      The Project would be capable of burning heavy fuel oil (mazout) or
natural gas. Fuel requirements would amount to approximately 1.0 million
tons/a of mazout or an equivalent 100 million cubic feet per day of gas for
the first two units, reaching 1.6 million tons/a of mazout or an equivalent
150 million cubic feet per day of gas once the site is fully developed (3x300
MW) after 1986.
3.04      Mazout would be supplied via pipeline by the Egyptian General
Petroleum Company (EGPC) from refineries at Suez and Mostorod (near Cairo).
Current and anticipated levels of oil production and refining capacity indi-
cate no problems in supplying Project's mazout requirements and, subject to
final allocation of available natural gas (para 3.05), sufficient gas fuel
could be assigned to the Project from existing fields (para 1.11). However,
existing pipeline capacity is not capable of handling the whole of Shoubra El
Kheima's fuel requirement. EGPC will eventually need to build additional
pipeline capacity. The Government would assure adequate supply of fuel (oil
and/or gas) and provide for building the additional pipeline facilities as
required to supply Shoubrah El Kheima.
3.05      Government would take prompt action to allocate available associated
and non-associated natural gas in line with priorities recommended in the gas
utilization study to be carried out under the Gulf of Suez Gas Project (para
1.09). It is expected that this action will result in the building of gas
trunk lines that would ensure adequate supply of gas fuel to the Cairo area,
including the Project, on a long-term basis.
Project Cost Estimate
3.06      The following is a summary of the Project cost estimate:



- 13 -
US$ Million
-----Million LE ------   --     Equivalent-----
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total
(a) Thermal Power Station
(2x300 MW), base cost /1       25,.5   180.4   205.9    35.6   252.6   288.2
Contingencies
Physical                      1.9    13.5    15.4       2.7    18.9    21.6
Price                        25.3    71.3    96.6    35.5    99.9   135.4
Subtotal                      52.7   265.2   317.9    73.8   371.4   445.2
(b) Transmission
(4 km, 220-kV loop plus
a reinforcement of
existing facilities,
base cost /1                    0.9     6.5      7.4      1.2     9.2    10.4
Contingencies
Physical                      0.1     0.6      0.7     0.1      0.9      1.0
Price                         1.0     2.7      3.7      1.4     3.8      5.2
Subtotal                        2.0     9.8    11.8       2.7    13.9    16.6
(c) Technical Assistance
(Studies, Research and
Training) base cost /1          0.7     1.4      2.1      1.0     2.0      3.0
Contingencies
Physical /2                    -       -        -        -       -        -
Price                         0.4     0.4      0.8     0.6      0.5      1.1
Subtotal                        1.1      1.8     2.9      1.6     2.5      4.1
TOTAL ESTIMATED
PROJECT COST                   55.8   276.8   332.6    78.1   387.8   465.9
/1   At 1978 prices.
/2   Consolidated into price contingency figures for ease in rounding off.
3.07      The estimated Project cost is based on figures developed by consul-
tants (Sanderson & Porter, Inc. - US) at the feasibility stage and subse-
quently adjusted by the mission to reflect current price contingency projec-
tions corresponding to expected conditions in Egypt as fo:Llows:



- 14 -
Equipment and        Local Labor
Other Imports       and Materials
1979                              6.5%                  15%
1980                              6.0%                  15%
1981                              6.0%                  14%
1982                              6.0%               13.5%
1983-1986                         6.0%               13.0%
Physical contingencies are included at 7.5% for the power station portion
and 10% for the transmission line to reflect the favorable site conditions
including demolition and clearing of existing power station and underground
cable installation at the station end. The item costs include an allowance
for engineering. Technical assistance cost estimates--US$8,330/man-month
in foreign exchange to cover consultants' salaries, overhead, fixed fees and
international travel expenses; and US$4,170/man-month in local currency to
cover consultants' living allowance, support staff and other local expendi-
tures--reflect current costs of power sector consultancy services in Egypt.
Details of the Project cost estimates are shown in Annex 3.1.
3.08       The resulting unit cost for the power station, LE 530/kW (US$742/kW),
is reasonable on the basis of expected cost of similar ongoing construction
in Egypt - e.g. Abu Qir (4x150 MW), LE 418/kW (US$586/kW); and Suez (2x150 MW),
LE 630 kW (US$882/kW). Similarly, costs shown for the transmission portion
are reasonable considering expected construction difficulties. EEA being tax-
exempt by law, the above Project cost estimates do not include taxes or duties.
Project Financing Plan
3.09       The proposed Project would be financed from the following sources:
…-----US$ Million------
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                                        -       102.0    102.0
IDA                                         -        37.0      37.0
USAID                                       -       100.0    100.0
EIB                                         -        35.0      35.0
EEC                                         -        35.0      35.0
OPEC                                        -        10.0      10.0
OECF (Japan)                                -        25.0      25.0
Government of Egypt                       78.1       43.8    121.9
Total Project Financing                   78.1      387.8    465.9
The Bank/IDA financing would cover about 36% of the foreign costs of the
Project and about 30% of the total cost of the Project. It has been assumed
that the Bank loan would be for 20 years including a 5-year period of grace;
the IDA credit would be subject to normal IDA terms and be repayable over



- 15 -
50 years including a 10-year period of grace.  The IDA credit would be dis-
bursed first, ahead of the Bank loan (para 3.19).  The USAID contribution
would be a grant to EEA through the Government. It would be tied to U.S.
procurement and is expected to be processed after negotiations on the Bank
Group funding. Appropriate cross effectiveness conditions are proposed in the
respective loan/credit documents pertaining to the funds from IBRD/IDA, USAID,
ETB and EEC.  This would ensure about 80% of the foreign funlds needed
and is considered to be satisfactory assurance that the Project funds are
secured. Agreement has been reached with major co-financiers on a draft Loan
Administration Agreement that would provide for mutual cooperation during
execution and supervision of the Project. Cross default clauses are also
envisaged with co-financiers with a view to assuring a reasonably complete
financing plan for the Project at all times. Funds provided by EIB, the OPEC
Special Fund and Japan would be untied. The EEC funds designated as the
Special Action Funds will be administered by the Bank and be tied to procure-
ment from the nine countries of the European Community and a few countries
eligible for EEC funding, including Egypt. The OPEC Specia:L Fund loan, will
be administered by the Bank and be used to finance goods procured under the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The Government would provide, as necessary, all
funds required to close the foreign exchange gap.
3.10      All local loans will be furnished to EEA by the Government subject
to interest at 5%/a and repayable over 12 years after a 3-year grace period.
Since the Project is ir Egypt's 1978-82 5-year plan, the Government would
provide for the local costs in its annual budgets. However, to ensure avail-
ability of local counterpart funds when needed, Government would establish as a
condition of loan effectiveness a special account (to be replenished monthly)
with a balance equal to at least three months' expenditures on the Project, as
determinecl from time to time, and frcom which EEA may draw without restriction
funds to meet local expenditures. Also, the Government would provide EEA with
funds to meet interest during construction on various loans and the service
charges oni the IDA credit estimated to be about US$20 million and to cover any
possible cost overrun on the Project. EEA would bear the foreign exchange
risk on the proposed Bank loan and oni the subsidiary loans related to the IDA
and EEC credits.
Environmental Considerations
3.11      Plant design provides for individual 100m stacks for each of the
three 300-MW units. An environmenta-L impact statement prepared by the feasi-
bility study consultants taking account of wind velocities and frequency time
distribution indicates that operation of Shoubrah El Kheima at full plant
capacity (900 MW) should offer no environmental problems provided that no more
than two units (600 MW) are operated on mazout of no more than 3.5% sulphur at
any one time.  Within these limitatiDns, the resultant ground level concentra-
tion of sulphur dioxide (SO 2) would be within the 1,000 ug/'m3 24-hour maximum
and 100 ug/m3 annual average (arithematic mean) upper limits recommended by the
Bank. Average sulphur content of mazout currently supplied by EGPC from domestic
refineries is about 2.8%. No difficulties are foreseen in meeting the quality
of mazout required by the Project (3.5% maximum). To confirm the Project's
proposed operating criteria regarding air pollution limitations, the Project
consultants would carry out an in-depth review of the envi:ronmental impact of



- 16 -
the plant, particularly in relation to So emissions and their probable ground
level concentration.  In addition, all indications are that there will be
enough natural gas from existing supplies to serve the third unit by reallo-
cating from other power users with less concentrated generating capacity and,
therefore, less severe pollution problems. No need is foreseen for restricted
operation of Shoubrah El Kheima on account of sulphur content of mazout or
lack of natural gas fuel.
3.12      Air quality index readings including S02 concentration would be part
of the information to be submitted to the Bank as part of the Project's report-
ing requirements. EEA would install appropriate air quality measuring equip-
ment to monitor ground level SO2 concentration attributable to the Project.
In addition, the Government has confirmed that the SO2 concentration levels
expected from the proposed operation of the Project do not exceed allowable
levels under Egyptian regulations.
3.13      The Project includes facilities for cleaning up waste waters from the
plant so that the only remaining water pollutant to consider is the heat dis-
charged from the plant condensers into the Nile river. The condenser discharge
would form a thermal plume with a surface temperature of about 3 C above the
ambient water temperature in about 1,600 sq. meters immediately adjacent to
the condenser discharge. Due to the effect of the plume mixing with the river
water the 30C rise area would be only 311 sq meters at a depth of 3 meters
below the surface. At a depth of 6 meters, the plume area would be insigni-
ficant. The depth of the river adjacent to the proposed site is about 10
meters.
3.14      According to the consultants' feasibility report (para 3.11), the
Department of Aquatic Life of the Ministry of Agriculture has indicated that
there would be no adverse effect to river fish life as a result of the condenser
discharge from the proposed Project within the thermal pollution figures given
above. The Government has confirmed this information.
Implementation
3.15      EEA is engaging consultants, expected to be financed by USAID, to
carry out detailed design, prepare bidding documents and specifications, and
procure and manage all supply and construction contracts on behalf of EEA.
During the initial stages of their work the consultants would carry out
a definitive study to confirm the basic design developed in the feasibility
report. The consultants would also recommend as part of their initial work
suitable bid lots to accommodate the proposed procurement arrangements (para
3.18) with due regard to project timing and cost. Engagement of consultants
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The consultants' scope of work



- IL7 -
would include design engineering and bidding documents not cinly for the first
two units of Shoubrah (the Project), but also for the third unit (Phase II)
to facilitate timely development of the site's full capability (3x300 MW).
Implementation of Phase II, however, would be contingent on EEA's arranging
for suitable additional financing.
3.16       Unless specific action is taken by EEA to expedite decision-making
connected with management of the Project, construction delays are a distinct
possibility on account of EEA's still cumbersome administrative procedures
(para 2.02). Therefore, EEA would delegate responsibility for Project
implementation to the Project consultants. The consultants would be fully
responsible for coordinating all work to ensure timely completion in spite of
probable difficulties that may arise due to the nature and magnitude of con-
struction capability required by the Project. Prequalification of the civil
works and mechanical and electrical erection bidders would be required.
3.17      Bidding and award of contracts for all parts of the Project would
be completed by early 1980. Field work, beginning with demolition of existing
structures and site clearing, would start in mid-1980. The first unit would
be placed in commercial operation at the end of 1984, and the second unit
six months later. An estimated Project implementation schedule is shown in
Annex 3.2. EEA would make suitable Project monitoring arrangements acceptable
to the Bank and the other co-financiers.
Procurement
3.18      Together with the funds of the other co-financiers (para 3.09) the
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange cost of
the Project. All contracts to be finLanced from the Bank loan and IDA credit
would be awarded under international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement", except that minor
contracts for which there are only a limited number of suppliers could be
procured under international or local shopping procedures. It is expected
that up to US$250,000 per contract and US$2,500,000 total would be sufficient
to cover these exceptions. The Bank has reached agreement in principle with
the major co-financiers that to the extent practicable, all contracts for
the Project would be bid under the Bank Group's guidelines and contracts or
subcontracts awarded to suppliers in the member countries of the EEC or the
US would be financed out of the EEC and USAID credits until the EEC and USAID
credits would have been fully committed, and other contracts would be financed
jointly from the Bank loan and IDA credit and other joint financing. Provided,
however, that should it become evident that the EEC and USAID credits would
not be fully utilized under this procedure, the Bank and the other co-financiers
would, whenever necessary, agree that bids be invited only from suppliers in
the EEC or the US, to ensure that the proceeds of the EEC and USAID credits
would be fully committed. No major power station equipment is manufactured in
Egypt and possible contracts for iteras like low voltage switchgear, small
power transformers, and wire and cable are unlikely to be won by local manu-
facturers due to their lack of competitiveness as shown in recent biddings for
the first power project (Loan 1453-EGT). However, in the case of equipment



- 18 -
contracts awarded under international competitive bidding procedure, a domestic
preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is the lesser,
would be granted to participating Egyptian manufacturers.
Disbursements
3.19      Bank Group funds would be disbursed against the foreign exchange
cost of each contract awarded under Bank Group procurement Guidelines in
the same proportion to the total amount of joint financing allocated to the
contract as the available Bank Group funds are to the total available joint
financing, provided, however, that small contracts may be financed exclu-
sively from the Bank loan/credit, or other sources, to facilitate loan
administration. Since the goods to be financed by each source will depend on
the outcome of bidding it is not possible to indicate what items would be
financed by the Bank loan/credit; however, a possible allocation is shown in
Annex 3.3. Subject to specific allocation of contracts, the EEC credit would
be disbursed ahead of the IDA credit, and disbursement of the IDA credit would
have priority over the Bank's funds. Disbursement of other concessional funds
being administered by the Bank, e.g. OPEC, would also be assigned priority
disbursement ahead of the Bank loan. Assuming no parallel financing funds are
allocated to other than the Turbine Island Contract, the expected Bank Group
disbursements are shown in Annex 3.4, corresponding to about 55% of the
foreign exchange costs of contracts awarded under joint financing and 36% of
the foreign exchange cost of the Project (para 3.09). Estimated disbursements
from the EEC Special Action Fund are shown in Annex 3.5. The closing date
would be December 31, 1985.
Risks
3.20      Due to scarcity of local construction capability and EEA's cumber-
some administrative procedures, long delays are being experienced in similar
EEA thermal power plant projects currently under construction. To reduce the
possibility of similar delays appearing in the project, EEA would delegate
responsibility for Project implementation to the Project consultants
(para 3.16). In addition, prequalification of civil works and installation
contractors will contribute to reducing the possibility of delays attri-
butable to inadequate contractor performance. Other major risks are (i)
non-compliance with the rate of return covenant on account of difficulties
in implementing required tariff increases, (ii) recurring inefficient use of
available manpower and difficulties in cutting down persistent overstaffing,
(iii) chronic weakness in financial administration, accounting, billing and
collecting, and (iv) delays in construction of fuel supply infrastructure.
The Project includes reasonable provisions to guard against these risks.
IV. FINANCE
Budget
4.01      Since its formation in 1976, EEA has prepared its own annual budget
and 5-year plans which are submitted through the Minister of Electricity for



- 19 -
approval by Parliament. With the formation of the seven new distribution
companies, EEA's budget is prepared separately from those of the distribution
companies; however, they will be consolidated for the Bank's purposes. EEA's
5-year plan (the current one for 1979--83) is now updated each year by dropping
off the current year and adding a further year. Inclusion of a project in
the 5-year plan represents Government's approval and agreement to commit funds
over the 5-year plan period without prescribing specific amounts for each year
of the plan.
Accounts
4.02      Although EEA planned to establish its own chart of accounts when it
was formed, it still follows and is bound by the chart of accounts and the
accounting principles described in the Government's "Standar-dized Accounting
System". This system does not serve EEA's needs as a utility and is geared
more to furnishing statistical information for Government.  Some of its more
serious weaknesses are:
(a) poor property accounting characterized by an inaccurate deter-
mination of work in progress, completed works and depreciation.
In fact the valuation of some of EEA's fixed assets is not yet
complete;
(b)  poor control of zonal accounting practices and non-reconciliation
of accounts with the zones leading both to poor quality of accounts
and delays in their preparation;
(c) improper accrual of revenues and expenses leading to distortions
on account of a previous year's adjustments being recorded in a
subsequent year;
(d) unsatisfactory cost and budgetary control; and
(e) lack of a proper management information system to meet the needs
of the operating management.
The deficiencies in the accounting system were pointed out in the 1976 UNDP
Power Sector Survey report by Sanderson & Porter (S&P) Inc., New York (para
1.10). To remedy these deficiencies, the Bank suggested to EEA that the S&P
team be supplemented during the implementation phase by 6 additional man-years
of financial management services to be financed under the first power loan.
These services commenced in August of 1977 and are due to end in August 1979.
4.03       S&P has also been developing the management information system
(MIS) concept within EEA with the full support of EEA's management. However,
with its contract expiring in August 1979, it is unlikely that a new system
would be introduced by then. EEA has asked S&P to prepare specific recom-
mendations for implementation of the MIS system and outline the scope of work
to be undertaken in the remaining period of its contract. To continue this
work, EEA has agreed to engage consultants for modification of the exist-
ing accounting system and the establishment of a management information system
(para 2.05).



- 20 -
4.04      Following up on the work of S&P, EEA is carrying out a joint study
with REA of their combined needs for a commercial computer. The study is
being conducted by Harza Engineering Company International (consultants to REA
under the first power loan) and provides for about 17 man-months of consulting
services with a foreign cost of about $165,000 to be financed under the first
power loan.
Revaluation of Assets
4.05      EEA's fixed assets have been valued at historical costs; the valua-
tion has also been incomplete with respect to the High Dam Project assets.
Loan 1453-EGT required that EEA complete the valuation of its existing assets
and establish a formula acceptable to the Bank for revaluation of its existing
assets to reflect price changes. S&P, the consultants appointed by EEA for
this purpose, completed its study in December 1978. S&P has recommended the
valuation of EEA's gross fixed assets at about LE 601 million as of December
31, 1977 as against the historical cost of LE 492 million, which represents an
increase of about 22% in the recorded values. The valuation of LE 601 million
(US$864 million) for a system with a total effective generating capacity of
2,721 MW (919 MW in steam electric plants, 236 MW in combustion turbines and
1,566 MW in hydro) along with associated transmission and distribution
facilities appears rather modest, even allowing for a reduced use of the High
Dam facilities and is significantly below S&P's own estimation of the replace-
ment value of the system in November 1976 as US$4 billion. Since the attempt
in the proposed revaluation exercise would not be to compute the replacement
value of the assets but rather to restate the historical cost to reflect the
price level changes, a 22% increase need not necessarily be inadequate. Since
many of the assets are new and the old ones have been retired, and the val-
uation is based on the consultants' in-depth study, the valuation would seem
to be an acceptable starting point. Furthermore, considering the magnitude of
the assets that will be brought into service in future compared to the exist-
ing assets, establishment of appropriate principles for revaluation in future
would be relatively more important than a precise determination of existing
values. Before taking a final decision on the valuation of EEA's assets as
of December 31, 1977, EEA would review with the Bank the proposed revaluation
procedures.
4.06      In view of the difficulty of having a single index reflecting price
inflation of all capital goods (both imported equipment as well as local con-
struction costs), it would be appropriate to use two different indices for
valuing foreign and local expenditures. The consultants recommended that for
revaluing the local cost component, the Construction Material Cost Index as
periodically issued by the Egyptian Center for Mobilization and Statistics be
used. For revaluing the foreign cost component an index for the prices of
machinery and equipment exported by developed countries such as the one
published by the United Nations (Annex 4.4) or another suitable index as may
be agreed between the Bank and EEA will be used. Using such index for foreign
cost and the Construction Material Cost Index referred to above for local cost,
EEA would revalue its fixed assets and those of the distribution companies
beginning with the fiscal year 1978 and every year thereafter. Pending an
acceptable determination of foreign and local costs from 1978, the assets
shown in the financial forecast in Annex 4.2 have been revalued through 1986



- :21 -
using the valuation established by the consultants for the assets at the end
of December 1977 and assuming an average annual price increase of 7.5%,
Past Performance and Present Position of the Borrower
4.07       The income statements and balance sheets of EEA for the years 1976-
1986 are given in Annexes 4.1 and 4.2. In 1976, EEA's first year of operation
as an independent electricity authority, it earned a modest profit of LE 3.6
million (Annex 4.1). The 1977 accounts show a further improvement in net
income to LE 11.9 million. These results produced rates of return of 8.6% in
1976 and 10.0% in 1977 on unrevalued assets. In 1978, EEA is estimated to
have earned a return of 4.7% on revalued assets. EEA's internal cash genera-
tion, which is a better measure of performance considering the valuation of
its assets, was 11% of expansion requirements in 1976 and 2% in 1978 but none
in 1977.
4.08      While the rates of return achieved appear to be reasonable, they
have been obtained in a period when EEA has reaped the benefits of cheap Aswan
hydro power, and subsidized fuel oil at LE 7.50 a ton (US$10.50/ton) com-
pared to the recent world market price of fuel oil of about $75 a ton (November
1978). In addition, salaries and wages have been very low averaging about
LE 380 per annum per employee (US$530 equivalent), although this advantage
is offset by the considerable overstaffing (para 2.08). With the growth in
demand for electric energy to be met in the next 5-6 years from fossil-fueled
plants, the possibility of Government: reducing the fuel oil subsidy and the
likelihood of large increases in salaries and wages (e.g., 1978 salary and
wage increase of 30%), the future outlook is for much higher electricity
rates. The last increase in electricity rates, namely, 20% in 1975, had met
with strong resistance from the large Government-owned industrial consumers
who use about 60% of all electricity sold and it was only in January 1978 that
the increase was ratified.  (Domestic rates were unchanged.)  Disputes over
the legality of the increase helped increase the total unpaid electricity
accounts to LE 60 million (US$84 milLion equivalent) as of August 31, 1978;
the disputes have since been resolved.
Earnings Review
4.09       Agreement under the first loan provided for review by December 31,
1978 of the timing of tariff action and other measures necessary to achieve
the rate of return objective. This review was to take place as part of a
general review of provisions related to EEA's financial performance agreed
with the Bank and other aid donors. EEA was not able to furnish this plan
because of the uncertainties in the sector following the establishment of the
distribution companies and delays in the ongoing tariff study (para 1.24).
The financial forecasts assume that EEA's obligations under the loan covenant
would remain unchanged as a result of establishment of the distribution
companies and that EEA including the distribution companies would reach
the required 9% return in 1983.



- 22 -
Collection of Electricity Supply Bills
4.10      EEA has always had difficulties in collecting its electricity supply
bills from entities in the public sector such as municipalities, public
utilities, Government buildings and Government industrial companies. In the
case of Government industrial companies, the failure to pay is often the
result of a genuine lack of funds on account of the prices of their goods and
services being controlled by the Government (para 1.22). To remedy EEA's
collection problem, Government agreed under Loan 1453-EGT to take all measures
necessary on its part to enable EEA to reduce its accounts receivable to not
more than the equivalent of 6 months' sales by March 31, 1978 and not more
than 3 months' sales by December 31, 1978. Although Government and EEA have
been taking action to move towards this objective, the above-mentioned specific
targets were not achieved; in fact, the overdue accounts which amounted to
about LE 51 million at the end of 1975 rose to about LE 54.8 million at
1977-end and about LE 60 million at the end of August 1978. However as a
result of vigorous action taken by the Government and EEA, the arrears due
from Government industrial companies in 1975, 1976 and 1977 on account of a
dispute over the applicable tariffs have since been settled; Government has
also authorized the settlement of about LE 5.71 million due from municipalities,
Government buildings and public utilities for 1976 and 1977. With the settle-
ment of further amounts relating to 1978, the outstandings to date have been
reduced to a little less than the equivalent of three months' sales as agreed
under Loan 1453-EGT. However, since this is likely to be a continuing problem
with implications for its liquidity, EEA would ensure that its accounts
receivable for the sale of electricity will at no time exceed the equivalent
of three months' sales of electricity. Government would also take all measures
necessary on its part to enable EEA to achieve this and in particular will
cause its agencies at all times to pay EEA all amounts for electricity sales
that are outstanding for more than three months.
Interest During Construction
4.11      In 1976 and 1977, EEA did not charge interest to construction but
charged the total interest expense against revenues. However, EEA has now
decided that, in future years, it will capitalize interest on funds borrowed
for new investments.
Liability for Income Tax
4.12      EEA has prepared its income statements assuming that it is not
liable for income taxes. However, Government has claimed that EEA and the
distribution companies should pay taxes on their profits. If it is finally
determined that income taxes are payable by EEA including the distribution
companies, EEA has agreed to include the taxes in operating expenses for
determining its rate of return under Loan 1453-EGT and the proposed loan.
4.13      EEA's debt equity ratio improved marginally from 74/26 at 1976-end
to 72/28 at 1977-end based on its historical balance sheet figures. With the
revaluation of assets as of December 31, 1977 resulting in the creation of a
revaluation reserve, the debt/equity ratio would have improved to 68/32 at the



- 23 -
end of 1978. However, long-term debt has not been valued to reflect current
rates of exchange. EEA has agreed in Loan 1453-EGT to revalue its debt each
year on the basis of current exchange rates. This current value would be
recorded in a footnote to its balance sheet. EEA's debt/equity ratio may be
expected to strengthen further in the short-term as it makes use of grant
funds from USAID and the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction and revalues
its gross fixed assets and depreciatiLon. The majority (90%) of EEA's exist-
ing long-term debt is owed to Governmaent and is repayable over 12 year subject
to annual interest of 5%. The remaining 10% or about LE 42 million comprises
LE 27 million repayable over the nexl: 5 years on USSR loans for the Aswan
project and LE 15 million in short-term suppliers' credit.
4.14       EEA's debt service coverage in 1977 was only about 0.7 due mainly
to the abnormally high repayments made on its loans to Government. However,
the debt service coverage for 1978 w.as estimated at 1.1 times the net revenues
for that year. The current ratio which was 1.3 in 1977 fell to 1.0 in 1978
reflecting an increasingly tight liquidity position.
Financing Plan
4.15       The forecast of sources and applications of funds of EEA for the
period 1978-86 assuming the tariff increases indicated in para 4.18 is given
in Annex 4.3. A condensed version for the same period is given below:



- 24 -
1978-1986           % of
Amount (Thousands)   Capital
LE           US$   Expenditure
Capital Expenditure Requirements
(Including Interest during Construction)
The Project                                     383,708       552,540        5
Other Construction                            7,002,813   10,084,050        95
Total                                         7,386,521   10,636,590       100
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                     2,228,708    3,209,339
Less:  Debt Service                           (753,813)  (1,085,490)
1,474,895    2,123,849        20
Less:  Working Capital Increase              (718,743)   (1,034,990)    (10)
Net Internal Cash Generation          756,152      1,088,859        10
Grants
USAID                                           88,734        127,777        1
Government                                   2,027,366      2,919,407       28
Total Grants                                2,116,100      3,047,184       29
Borrowings
Foreign - Proposed IBRD/IDA
Loan/Credit                        96,528        139,000        1
EIB                                 24,306         35,000        -
EEC                                 24,306         35,000        -
Others                           3,876,585      5,582,284       53
Total Foreign                    4,021,725      5,791,284       54
Local                                          488,011        702,736        7
Total Borrowings                            4,509,736      6,494,020       61
Others Sources                                   4,533          6,527        -
Total Sources                               7,386,521    10,636,590       100
4.16      It will be seen from the above table that EEA's investment program
for 1978-86 will require about LE 7,387 million (US$10,637 million) which is
expected to be financed 10% from net internal cash generation, 29% from grants
from USAID and Government, and 61% from borrowing. After allowing for debt
service but before providing for working capital increase, the internal cash
generation would be about 20%, which is adequate considering that the annual
cash generation during part of the period (1978-81) ranges from nil to only
11% in view of the assumption regarding a gradual raising of tariffs to
reach the required 9% return. Since the bulk of the borrowings of LE 4,510
million (US$6,494 million) have not been arranged, the financing plan is



- 25 -
subject to uncertainty. Although firm financing arrangements are reasonably
assured for the Project itself (paras 3.09 and 3.10), it would be unrealistic
to expect EEA to furnish a satisfactory financing plan at this stage for the
total program with assured funding. Since Egypt has in the past secured all
financing necessary for its power sector investments, it would be reasonable
to accept the planning assumptions underlying the investment program.
Future Performance
4.17      On the basis that Government- wishes to establish EEA as a finan-
cially viable entity with a level of esarnings which will provide some of its
future expansion needs from internal resources after meeting its operating
expenses and debt service obligations, Loan 1453-EGT requires EEA to earn
a rate of return of at least 9% on average net fixed assets in operation
as revalued from time to time. This followed a similar covenant agreed
earlier (July, 1976) by EEA with USAID in the loan agreement for the Helwan-
Talkha combustion turbine projects. A review of EEA's earniLngs during 1979
(see estimated income statements for 1979-1986 in Annex 4.1, and the assump-
tions underlying the financial statements in Annex 4.5) shows that EEA cannot
earn the required 9% return in 1979 without an unconscionably high quantum of
tariff increase (110% if effective July 1, 1979). When Loan 1453-EGT was
approved, it was envisaged that the plan to be submitted by EEA at the end of
1978 would afford all parties an opportunity to exchange views on the target
for 1979. Considering the environment in which EEA operates, it would be
realistic to prepare a plan for reaching the required 9% return gradually over
a period of time, intermediate targets being fixed for the interim for moni-
toring EEA's progress towards achieving the final objective of 9% return. EEA
has requested that the appropriate time for any tariff action would be after
Government and EEA have had time to review the recomendations of the tariff
study, which would be around September 1979. Any tariff action would, there-
fore, be effective for all practical purposes only from the beginning of 1980.
Accordingly, EEA would implement the following plan, with which USAID and
other co-financiers are in broad agreement, the objective being for the whole
sector (EEA and the distribution companies) to generate internally a reasonable
proportion, say around 25%, of its capital expansion requirements:
(a) EEA to achieve a minimum return of 5% in 1980, 6% in
1981, 8% in 1982 and 9% in 1983 and thereafter;
(b) as a condition of loan effectiveness, Government and EEA
would agree with the Bank on the measures to be taken,
including their timing, fo-r achieving the proposed minimum
5% return in 1980; and
(c)  as required under Loan 1453-EGT, EEA would submil to the Bank
by the end of November eachn year a suitable financial plan
for meeting the agreed rate of return in the folLowing year.
These measures would result in net internal cash generation of 4% in 1980, 11%
in 1982 and 23-27% in 1983 through 1986. Over the total period of 1978-86,
EEA's net internal cash generation would be around 20% excluding the require-
ments of working capital increase.



-- 26 -
4.18       Average tariff increases of 40% effective January 1, 1980, 30%
effective January 1, 1981, 25% effective January 1, 1982 and 25% effective
January 1, 1983 were assumed in the financial forecasts to yield the agreed
rates of return. These forecasts do not allow for any increase in the price
of petroleum products which may result from the pricing study (para 1.09)
or for the difficult process of implementing general tariff increases,
particularly those affecting the middle and lower income residential con-
sumers under the prevailing socio-economic conditions in Egypt. Both EEA and
Government are aware that attaining EEA's financial objectives will require
sustained, patient efforts. Selective tariff increases aimed at large indus-
trial consumers followed by careful adjustments in general tariffs are
expected as part of a nationwide effort being undertaken by the Government
to eliminate subsidies. A fuel-adjustment clause in the new tariff would
provide for an automatic adjustment to reflect changes in prices paid by EEA
for fuel. Cost reductions through more efficient operation of EEA's thermal
power stations, rehabilitation of transmission and distribution to cut down
line losses, and improvement of administrative procedures would complement
any tariff action toward fulfilling EEA's financial objectives. With the
tariff increases assumed in the financial forecasts, revaluation surpluses
and the provision of LE 2,091 million as grants from both USAID and Government
during the period 1978-86, EEA's debt equity ratio would steadily improve from
68/32 at the end of 1978 to 42/58 at the end of 1983. Thereafter, it would
rise to 49/51 at the end of 1986. The current ratio which is expected to be
around 0.7 in 1979 reflecting an extremely tight liquidity position is expected
to rise steadily to 1.4 in 1981, 1.5 in 1982, around 1.8 in 1983-85 and a
comfortable 2.1 in 1986.
Debt Service Covenant
4.19       Under Loan 1453-EGT, EEA agreed to obtain the Bank's prior consent
to any borrowing it plans to undertake whenever its internal cash generation
is not sufficient to cover its debt service at least 1.5 times in any future
year.  In calculating amortization of long-term debt, EEA agreed that it
would revalue all foreign debts at the end of each year in accordance with
the current rate of exchange obtainable by the borrower. This covenant would
be extended also to the proposed loan so that EEA and the Bank could keep
under review EEA's assumption of debt liabilities.
Audit
4.20       EEA's accounts are audited by the Government's Central Auditing
Organization. The audits are comprehensive and thorough. However, timely
completion of the auditors' report has been a problem due mainly to delays in
stock-taking and to difficulties in reaching agreement between EEA and the
auditors on actions required by the latter before finalizing the report. The
audit reports contain much criticism of EEA's accounting records and proce-
dures, many of them on defects which have been continuing uncorrected for a
long time. In fact the auditors have not been prepared to give an unqualified
opinion on the accounts since 1975. Problems which are referred to in the
auditor's reports include:



- 27 -
(a) lack of coordination between technical and financial departments
which affects stock, work in progress, and fixed assets accounts;
(b) the costing system does not enable control of work in progress,
stock and in-transit items;
(c) irregularities in stock records;
(d) accounts with the zones not reconciled;
(e) incomplete inventory of fixed assets;
(f) lack of details of projects transferred from REA to EEA;
(g) improper accrual of revenues and expenses; and
(h) delay in determining the capital of EEA.
EEA is given the opportunity after it receives the auditors' report to respond
to the criticism made and to indicate the corrective action it considers
necessary. However, there have been serious delays in the past on the part of
EEA in complying with the Audit Comments.  In order to ensure action within an
accepted time frame, EEA would initiate by October 31, 1979, and thereafter
promptly complete, corrective action on the Audit Report for 1977 in accordance
with a plan of action prepared in consultation with the auditors.  With the
expected improvement in its inventory management and accounting, EEA considers
that the past delays in the submission of the audited financial statements and
Audit Report to the Bank would be eliminated within about three years.  Accord-
ingly, as under Loan 1453-EGT, EEA would submit to the Bank EEA's audited
financial statements and Audit Report for a fiscal year within six months of
the close of the year. This would apply to the years commencing with the
fiscal year 1981. For the years 1978 and 1979, EEA would submit the audited
.accounts and audit report to the Bank within 9 months, and for the year 1980
within 7 months.
Insurance
4.21      EEA insures through a Government-owned insurance corporation to
cover business risks normally covered by Government and public authorities
in Egypt e.g. motor vehicles and stores and materials. It does not, however,
provide insurance coverage against certain business risks normally covered
by public utilities e.g. fire, machinery breakdown and public liability.
The Government and EEA explained that the risks in EEA's operations are
widespread and that provision is made in EEA's annual budgets to meet normal
losses arising from exposure to these risks. In the event of catastrophic
losses EEA, being a 100% Government-owned authority, relies on the Government
to meet major losses. Also, as agreed under Loan 1453-EGT, EEA has appointed
consultants (Hartford Boiler Insurance Co. of the USA) to undertake a review
of existing safety and inspection practices for operation and maintenance of
power equipment and facilities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The work commenced in January 1979 and is scheduled for completion



- 28 -
in January 1981. EEA would exchange views with the Bank on EEA's proposals
for safety and inspection practices based on the recommendations of the
consultants and would thereafter establish such practices not later than
September 30, 1981.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. The Power Market
Past Trends
5.01      The Project forms part of the proposed development program to meet
the future demand for electricity on the EEA system. The past trend of demand
on the system is shown in Annex 5.1. Maximum demand rose from 872 MW in
1967 to 2,238 MW in 1977 (9.9% p.a.) and sales from 4,756 GWh to 11,429 GWh
(9.2% p.a.). The average growth rates for the whole ten-year period conceal
very divergent trends within the period. As shown by the detailed figures
in Annex 5.1, the annual growth rates followed a markedly downward trend in
the first half of the period, declining from 10.1% in 1968 to -0.8% in 1972
for sales, and from 6.7% to 1.4% for maximum demand, the average annual growth
rates over the five-year period being 5.4% and 6.2% respectively. These
low growth rates reflected the relatively lackluster performance of the economy
in these years, during which the growth of GNP averaged only 4.3% p.a. Since
1972 there has been a sharp reversal of these trends, with economic growth of
7% p.a. and power demand growing at over 13% p.a.
5.02      The key factor in the much higher growth rate of power market over
the last five years has been the demand of five major industrial consumers,
three of which began operations during this period. These together accounted
for over 54% of total incremental sales between 1973 and 1977, during which
period sales to these large industrial consumers grew at over 34%/a (Annex
5.2). Sales to other consumer categories grew much less rapidly, ranging from
17% p.a. for residential/commercial consumers to 1.4% p.a. for irrigation/
agriculture. As a result the share of industrial in total electricity sales
rose from 54% to 63%. This high proportion of industrial sales also accounts
for the relatively high load factor (65% in 1977).
Load Forecast
5.03      Although the Project is intended to meet load growth in 1984/85, the
load forecast was not limited to this period since in power system planning it
is necessary to ensure that proposed short and medium-term expansion programs
are consistent with optimum long-term system development. Consequently, EEA's
consultants extended the forecast to the end of the century (1999), which was
considered adequate for this purpose.
5.04      The method adopted by EEA and its consultants in projecting future
demand was to make separate forecasts for each consumer category, as described
below:



- 29 -
(a)  Industry.  In view of the importance of major consumers
in industrial electricity consumption, this category was
divided into two subcategories, viz. "Industrial -- Large
Consumers" and "Industrial - General". The forecast for
the first subcategory was based on the identification
of individual major industrial consumers, existing or
projected to 1985, for which specific information regard-
ing their power requirements could be obtained, either
from the industries themselves (where they already existed),
or from the agencies responsible for their construction (in
the case of new industrial projects). This resulted in the
identification of 36 major industrial consumers, as listed in
Annex 5.3, which shows their projected power requirements,
based on the most up-to-date information available on the
status of the expansion plaLns of the industries concerned.
It was further assumed that: additional major industrial loads
would emerge in the latter part of the period to 1985 such as
to maintain the annual growth rate for this subcategory at
the same level as that projected for "Industrial - General"
(i.e. 9.5% p.a. - see below). Recent experience indicates
that implementation of major industrial projects lags behind
schedule, resulting in actual power demands less than those
projected. Thus, in the last three years, actual annual
sales to large industrial ,consumers have been between about
50% and 70% of forecast saLes. For the purpose of the load
forecast, therefore, the consultants assumed, as a measure of
caution, that actual annual sales to large consumers in the
period to 1985 would be only 60% of the industries' estimates
of their requirements. For the period 1986-1999 it was
assumed that growth rates for this subcategory would cor-
respond to those for "Industrial -  General".  The resulting
forecast for large industrial consumers (see Annex 5.3)
indicates a fairly rapid decline in the annual growth rate
from the average of 34% p.a. in the period 1973-77, to 9.5%
in 1983, 7.5% in 1986 and 7% in 1991.
For the "Industrial - General" subcategory the projec-
tion was based on an average growth rate of 11% p.a. in the
number of industrial customers (excluding large consumers),
and average use per customer declining at 1.2% p.a., through
1985. Thereafter, the number of customers was assumed to
remain constant and the growth rate of sales per customer
was assumed to be 7.5% p.a. through 1990 and 7% p.a.
subsequently.
(b) Residential/Commercial. Forecast sales for this category
assume continuance of the 1973-77 growth rate of 14% p.a.
through 1985 and a subsequent decline to 12% p.a. through
1990 and 8% p.a. thereafter.
(c) Irrigation/Agricultural. The number of customers in this
category remained constant at 200 in the period 1973-77 and,



- 30 -
as shown in Annex 5.2, the growth rate of sales was minimal,
averaging only 1.4% p.a. However, there are plans to
increase the acreage under irrigation and the total agri-
cultural production by revision of irrigation methods, which
is expected to lead to somewhat higher growth rates in the
future. It was assumed, therefore, that sales in this
category, after stagnating through 1980, would increase
at 5% p.a. in subsequent years.
(d) Other Categories. The remaining categories comprise "General
Purpose" and "Government Buildings". "General Purpose" sales
were projected to grow at the average 1973-77 rate of 3.8%
p.a through 1985 and somewhat more slowly (3.5% p.a.) sub-
sequently. It was assumed that the downward tendency in the
"Government Buildings" category as a proportion of total sales
(3.3% in 1973, 2.4% in 1977) would continue until it reached
2% in 1984 and that it would then remain at this level in
subsequent years.
5.05      The resulting forecast of total sales, together with the correspond-
ing estimates of net generation and maximum demand, are shown in Annex 5.2 and
summarized below:
1980          1985          1990          1999
Total EAA Sales, GWh                 17,116        28,311         43,050        81,213
Average Growth Rate, % p.a.                10.6           8.7           7.3
Net Generation, GWh                  19,902        32,172         48,920        92,287
Average Growth Rate, % p.a.                10.1           8.7           7.3
Maximum Demand, MW                    3,151         5,151          8,093        16,333
Average Growth Rate, % p.a.                10.3           9.5           8.1
This was adopted as the most likely forecast for the economic evaluation. It
implies that by 1995 per capita consumption will be around the level reached
by Portugal in 1976 (1,230 kWh). For sensitivity testing, "low" and "high"
forecasts were also made, as shown in Annex 5.4. These assume annual incre-
mental sales over the forecast period respectively 10% lower and 10% higher
than in the probable forecast.
B. Comparison of Alternatives
5.06      Generating capacity existing or under construction will suffice to
meet the forecast requirements through 1983, but additional capacity will be
needed to meet the projected peak demand on the system in December 1984. The
technical options include hydropower and the various thermal possibilities viz.
nuclear conventional steam plant, combined cycle plant (i.e. a combination of



- :31 -
combustion turbines and steam turbines) and combustion turbines. Although
there is scope for further hydropower development on the Nile (para 1.17),
the hydro schemes could not be considered for the present requirement because
of the long lead time for their construction (8-1/2 years). Similarly,
a nuclear station could not be constructed in time to meet the December 1984
peak demand. Of the remaining possibilities, experience with combined cycle
plant is limited. And, due to the complex nature of the plant, many opera-
tional problems still exist, making it unsuitable for introduction into the
EEA system at this stage, although it could be considered for later installa-
tion when more operational experience of this type of plant has been accu-
mulated. The effective choice for meeting the projected 1984 and 1985
requirements, therefore, lies between conventional steam turbines and com-
bustion turbines, or some combination of these.
5.07      Since the alternatives have different effects on the operation
of the unified EEA system, they cannot be compared in isolation from the
system.  The comparison was therefore made using a computer model known as the
Wien Automatic System Planning Computer Program (WASP), as described in Annex
5.5. This is designed to define the least-cost generation program in present
worth terms for an electric power system, subject to any constraints, over
a specified period, in this case 1978; through 1999. As a first step, the
program was used to determine the appropriate size of unit to introduce in
1984 and 1985.  As shown in Annex 1.2, approximately 300 MW of additional
thermal capacity is needed to meet the 1984 peak demand, and a further 600
MW in 1985, while still maintaining the required system reserve margin of 20%.
Since the largest unit at present uncler construction or planned is 150 MW,
this suggests 300 1W as the appropriate next choice of size. However, this
was compared with the 450-MW size to establish whether the benefit of the
scale effect would offset the additional cost of installing capacity in excess
of system requirements. The comparison showed that the development program
including three 300-MW units in 1984--85 rather than two 450-MW units had the
lowest present worth of costs over the whole range of discount rates applied
(8%-16%), and this result was found to be insensitive to variations in the
main assumptions, thus confirming 3010 MW as the economic choice of unit size.
5.08      Two generation expansion programs to meet the projected 1978-99
requirements were then compared, the first incorporating the proposed steam
station (i.e. a 300-MW conventional steam unit in 1984, foLlowed by two
similar units at six-month intervals in 1985) and the second substituting 300
MW of combustion-turbine capacity for the 1984 steam unit. The technical and
economic assumptions used for the comparison are given in Annex 5.6. The
program incorporating the Project was found to have the lowest present
worth of total system costs up to a discount rate of 17%. As shown in Annex
5.6, this result was found to be insensitive to variations in the base-case
assumptions on capital costs, fuel costs, value of foreign exchange and load
growth, the equalizing discount rate lying in the range of 15-19% for the cases
considered.
5.09      It was finally necessary to compare the economics of four possible
sites for the steam station viz Ras Gharib (215 km south of Suez on the west
bank of the Gulf of Suez), Ain Soukhna (also on the Gulf of Suez, 47 km south



- 32 -
of Suez), Shoubrah El Kheima (located in Greater Cairo on the east bank of the
Nile) and Suez itself. Ras Gharib was rejected at an early stage of the com-
parison when it was found to have the highest present worth of costs (capital
plus operating - particularly transmission investment and losses) even when
it was assumed that associated gas from the Gulf of Suez would be the fuel,
despite the fact that it was the most favorably situated of all the sites in
relation to that gas supply; as mazout or gas from fields to the North and
West of Cairo are now assumed to be the available fuels, for which Ras Gharib
is less favorably situated, this rules it out from further consideration.
Details of the estimated costs associated with the other three sites are shown
in Annex 5.7. The Shoubrah El Kheima site has the lowest present worth of
costs up to a discount rate of at least 15% and is therefore the preferred
location.  This site is also highly desirable based on technical considera-
tions and accessibility to fuel supply. The plant at Shoubrah El Kheima would
serve primarily the Cairo area to support the load end of the 500-kV transmis-
sion line from Aswan. In addition, the site is centrally located in relation
to major gas fields and oil and gas pipelines (paras 3.04 and 3.05).
C. Return on Investment
5.10      The Project includes only two out of the three 300-MW units to
be built at Shoubrah El Kheima and enough transmission to interconnect the
plant with the system; it also does not include associated system transmis-
sion and distribution facilities needed to make the station's output avail-
able to consumers. Consequently, the justification of the Project cannot be
considered in isolation from the whole Shoubrah development (including asso-
ciated system transmission and distribution), of which it forms an integral
part. It was necesary, therefore, to calculate the rate of return on the
complete Shoubrah scheme rather than on the Project alone. This is the
discount rate which equates the present worths of the streams of costs and
benefits associated with Shoubrah. For the purpose of the calculation the
attributable financial costs were adjusted for taxes, internal transfers and
for any differences between the money costs of inputs and their opportunity
costs to the economy. The benefits comprise the incremental supplies of
electricity to consumers attributable to Shoubrah, plus any other incremental
benefits which can be quantified.
5.11      The details of the calculation, and the technical and economic
assumptions used, are given in Annex 5.8. The main adjustment to the finan-
cial costs relate to the fuel (mazout). Although the internal price payable
by EEA is controlled by the Government and has remained unchanged for over 20
years at LE 7.50/ton, the calculation used the opportunity cost of fuel at the
time of appraisal, based on the export value of mazout, of LE 55/ton. The
incremental electricity sales attributable to Shoubrah were valued at the
average tariffs prevailing in 1978. Additional benefits comprise fuel sav-
ings through substitution of electricity from Shoubrah for fuels with higher
opportunity costs, plus extra tax revenues, fees and connection charges
payable by residential consumers. The resulting rate of return is about 4%.



- 33 -
5.12      The low rate of return reflects the low electricity tariffs in
Egypt and indicates that tariff levels are set below the economic cost of the
resources used to produce electricity, a result of the system of subsidized
prices for essential goods and services. The tariff study financed under the
first loan would formulate a tariff structure for high voltage consumers based
on marginal-cost pricing principles (para 1.23).  If the proposed higher
tariffs required to achieve the rate oE return covenant are assumed to reflect
the consumers' willingness to pay for electricity (para 4.18), the rate of
return on the Project would be about 8%. It is expected that: the forecasted
demand for electricity will not be altered as a result of the increased
tariffs because 60% of that demand is attributed to Government-owned enter-
prises that are considered essential to the national development strategy.
5.13      Both rates of return understate the true return on the Project
principally because electricity is undervalued in the analysis. The value of
electricity to the economy could not be quantified directly and as a result
the tariffs were used as a proxy for the value of the Projec't output. In the
analysis the tariffs and in turn a major proportion of the benefits, are based
on domestic prices for the resources while most of the costs associated with
the Project are based on international prices, i.e. wages and price of fuel,
etc.  Since the domestic prices are set by the Government below international
prices, the value of the benefits attributed to the Project is depressed
relative to economic costs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The Government has agreed to:
(a)  establish by December 31, 1979, a new Inter-Ministerial
Coordinating Committee on Energy to follow up on the work
initiated by the Egypt/Unit,ed States joint assessment team
(para 1.09);
(b)  assure adequate supply of fuel and provide for building
additional pipeline facilities as required to supply the
Project (para 3.04);
(c)  take prompt action to implement accepted recommendations
resulting from the petroleum products pricing study (para
1.23) and allocate available associated and non-associated
natural gas in line with accepted recommendations of the
gas utilization study (para 3.05);
(d)  take all measures necessary to enable EEA to ensure that
its accounts receivable for the sale of electricity will
at no time exceed the equivalent of three months' sales
of electricity, and cause the Government agencies at all
times to pay EEA all amounts for electricity sales that
are outstanding for more than 3 months (para 4.10); and



- 34 -
(e) treat any income taxes held payable by EEA as operating expenses
for determining EEA's rate of return under Loan 1453-EGT and the
proposed loan (para 4.12).
6.02       EEA would extend the tariff consultants' contract (para 1.24)
and plans to train staff overseas in load management and load research under
Loan 1453-EGT financing (para 2.09).
6.03      EEA has agreed to:
(a)  engage consultants by December 31, 1979 to carry out
feasibility studies for next steps of system expansion,
and by March 31, 1980 to carry out load research and
load management studies (para 1.18);
(b) appoint consultants by October 31, 1979, to establish
uniform utility accounting systems and procedures and
management information systems for EEA and the distribu-
tion companies (para 2.05);
(c) install appropriate air quality measuring equipment to
monitor ground level SO2 concentration attributable to
the Project (para 3.12);
(d) make suitable Project monitoring arrangements acceptable
to the Bank and the other co-financers (para 3.17);
(e) review with the Bank the proposed revaluation of EEA's
assets as of December 31, 1977 and would revalue such
assets for each subsequent year in accordance with the
agreed principles (para 4.05);
(f) implement a plan for reaching a 9% rate of return
gradually starting with minimum 5% rate of return in
1980, followed by 6% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 9% in 1983
and thereafter (para 4.17);
(g) retain provisions of Loan 1453-EGT requiring that EEA
submit to the Bank by the end of November each year a
suitable financial plan for meeting the agreed rate of
return the following year (para 4.17);
(h) extend the debt service covenant in Loan 1453-EGT to the
proposed loan (para 4.19);
(i) initiate by October 31, 1979, and thereafter promptly
complete corrective action on the Audit Report for 1977
in accordance with a plan of action prepared in con-
sultation with the auditors (para 4.20);



- 35 -
(j)  retain provisions in Loan 1453-EGT to submit an Audit
Report for each fiscal year within six months of the
close of the year, except that the time limit for the
submission of the audited accounts and Audit Report
would be extended to 9 months for 1978 and 1979, and
7 months for 1980 (para 4.20); and
(k) exchange views with the Bank on EEA's proposals for
safety and inspection practices based on the recommenda-
tions of the consultants and will thereafter estabLish
such practices not later than September 30, 1981 (para
4.21).
6.04      Execution of subsidiary Loan Agreements for onlending the IDA and
EEC credits, and of agreements with USAID and other co-financiers to provide
at least 80% of the total foreign exchange required by the Project would be
additional conditions of loan effectiveness (paras 2.01, 3.09).
6.05      Threeother supplementary conditions of loan effectiveness would
be the establishment by the Government: of a special fund (to be replenished
monthly) available to EEA to meet at least three months' expenditures on
the Project (para 3.10); the engagement of Project consultants (para 3,15)!
and the agreement with the Bank by Government and EEA on the measures to be
taken, including their timing, for achieving the minimum 5% rate of return
in 1980 (para 4.17).
6.06      Subject to agreement on the issues set forth in this report, the
Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$102 million to EEA and credits from
IDA (US$37 million) and EEC Special Action Fund (US$35 million) to the Govern-
ment for onlending to EEA. Standard terms for a Bank loan to Egypt of 20
years, including a 5-year grace period, would be appropriate. The IDA credit
would be subject to normal IDA terms. The loan/credit could become effective
within four months of signing.
June 5, 1979



EGYPT
MINISTRY OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTERI
LEGAL ADVISOR
| HIGHER CODUNCIL OF ;
I ELECTRICITWY SECTOR  I
IUDR-SECRETARY OF STATE        FIRST UNDER-SECRETARY        jUNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE
I   FOR MINISTER'S OFFICE   I            OF STATE               FOR CORPORATIONS/AUTHORITIES| 
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY   URAL ELECTRIFICATION   NUCLEAR POWER PLAN      QATTARA DEPRESSION
I    AUTHORITY              AUTHORITY               AUTHORITY              AUTHORITY
GENERAL COMPANY FOR           HIGH DAM COMPANY FOR          GENERAL COMPANY FOR             EGYPTIAN ELECTRIC
ELECTRICAL PROJECTS        ELECTRICAL AND MECHANCAL           ELECTRICAL AND             TRANSFORMER COMPANY
PROJECTS                MECHANCAL  PROJECTS
World Bank-16892
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBHAJI EL K-ETIMA THE&NAL POWER PROJECT
EEA's Availabie Generating Capacity, 1578-1986
(MW)
Maximum Net Capability of NW Assuming All Units in Service
Number and Nominal
Name of Station                   Capacity of Units                        1978         1979          1980          1981         1982          1983          1984          1985          1986
S teamr
Cairo West                       3 x 87                                     165          165           197           229          240           261           261           261           261
Cairo South                     4 x 60                                      150          170           200           220          220           240           240           240           240
Cairo North                      2 x 30 +  1 x 20 + 2 x 10                   64           64            64            64           50            36            36             -             -
El Tebbin                       3 x 15                                       33           30            30            30           30            45            45            45            45
Talkha                           3 x 12.5 + 3 x 30                          117          100           100           100          100           117           117           117            36
Damanhour                        2 x 15 + 3 x 65                            200          200           200           200          200           225           225           225           225
El Seyouf                        2 a 26.5 + 2 x 30                           45           45            45            45            70          113           113           113           113
Karmouz                          4 x 16                                      22            22           22             -             -             -            -             -             -
Assiut                           3 x 30                                      78            78           78            78            78            90           90            90            90
Suez (Old)                       4 x 25                                      45            80           80            80            80          100           100           100           100
Kaftr El Dawar                   3 x 110                                      -           110          220           220          330           330           330           330           330
Cairo West                       I x 87                                       -            87           87            87            87           87            87            87            87
Abu Qir                          4 x 150                                      -             -          300           600           600          600           600           600           600
Ismailia                         2 x 150                                      -             .            -             -             -          300           300           300           300
Suez (New)                       2 *c 150                                     -             -            -             -          300           300           300           300           300
Shoubra El-Kheima                3 x 300                                      -             -            -             -             -             -          300           900           900
600 NW Thermal (1986)                                                         -             -            -             -             -             -            -             -           600
Total Steam                                                              919         15151         1,623        1,953         2,385         2,844        3,144         3,708         4,227
Combustion Turbines
El Max                           2 x 14                                      22            22           22            22            22           22            22            22            22
Suez                                l x 17                                   17            17           17            17            17            17           17            17            17
Ismailia                         I x 22                                      22            22           22            22            22           22            22            22            22
Cairo North                      1 x 22                                      22            22           22            22            22            22           22            22            22
Port Said                        2 x 23                                      46            46           46            46           46            46            46            46            46
Fayum                            1 x 22                                      22            22           22            22            22            22           22            22            22
Helwan                           Total of 120 NW                              -           120          120           120           120          120           120           120           120
Talkha                           Total of 192 MW                              -           192          192           192           192           192          192           192           192
Tahrir Mataman                   I x 23                                      23            22           22            22            22            22           22            22            22
Heliopolis                      3 a 12.5                                     37            37           37            37            37            37           37            37            37
TCarmouz                         2 x 12.5                                    25            25            25           25            25            25            25           25            25
El Tebbin                        2 x 25                                       -            50           50            50            50            50           50            50            50
Cairo East                       2 x 25                                       -            50           50            50            50            50           50            50            50
Total Combustion Turbines                                                 236          647           647          647           647           647           647          647           647
Hydro
High Dam                                                                  1,383        1,423         1,462         1,502         1,541        1,581         1,626         1,676         1,726
Aswan (See Note)                                                            183           183           183          183           183           183          183           IS3           183
Esna                                                                          -             -             -            -             -             -                   -                   4
Nag Hammadi
Assiut                                                                        -             -             -            -             -             -
Pumped Storage                                                                -             -             -            -             -             _             -             -            -
'Total Hydra                                                            1,566        1,606         1,645          1,685       1,724         1,764         1,809         1,859         1,956
Total System Capability                                                2,721         3,404         3,915         4,285        4,756         5,255        5,600         6,214         6,830
Peak Lod                                                               2,532         2,830        3,151          3,435        3,804         4,217        4,648         5,151         5,619
Reserve
14W                                                                       189           574          764            850          952        1,038           952         1,063         1,211
Percent of Load                                                             7.5          20.3         24.3           24.8         25.0         24.6          20.5          20.6          21.6      K
June 1979



-38-                                                                               AM    1.3
EGYPT
EGYpTIAII ELETRICITY A10HR0TY
SHOLJRAH EL IEHEIMA THERMIL PKIER PR03JET
ERA'S A/vilable Net Generation. 1978-1986
(CWh)
Nunber and Nominal
Name of Station                 Capacity (MLW) of Units                       1978         1979         1980         1981         1982          1983         1984         1985         1986
Steam 1/
Cairo West                        3 x 87                                     1,115        1,115        1,379        1,603        1,680         1,827        1,827        1,827        1,827
Coitt  Sooth                      4 x 60                                     1,050        1,190        1,400        1,540        1,540        1,680         1,680        1,680        1,680
Caio North                        2x30 + I  20 +2 x      10                   448          448          448          448          350           252          252            -            -
El Tebbin                         3x15                                         231          210          210          210          210           315          315          315          315
Talikha                            3 x 12.5 + 3 a 30                           819          700          700           700          700          819          819          819          252
Damanhour                         2 x 15 + 3 x 65                            1,400        1,480        1,430        1,400        1,400         1,575        1,575        1,575        1,575
El Seyouf                         2 x 26.5 + 2 n 30                            315          315          315          315          490           791          791          791          791
Karmoz                            4 x16                                        154          154          154             -            -            -            -            -            -
Asoijt                             3 x 30                                      546          546          546          546           546          630          630          630          630
Sae" (old)                        4 x 25                                       315          560          560          560          560           700          700          700          700
Kaft El Dawat                     3 x 110                                        -          770        1,540        1,540        2,310        2,310         2,310        2,310        2,310
Cairo Went                        I x 87                                                    609          609          609          609          609           609          609          609
Abu Qir                           4 x 150                                        _            -        2,100        4,200        4,200        4,200         4,200        4,200        4,200
Ismailia                          2 n 150                                        -            -            -            -            -            -        2,100        2,100        2,100
Suez (new)                        2 a 150                                        -            -            -            -             -       2,100         2,100        2,100        2, 100
Shoubra El-Kheima                 3 a 300                                                                                                          -            -        3,150        6,300
600 M8 Thermal (1986)
Total Steam                                                                6,393        8,017       11,361       13,671        14,595      17,808        19,908      22,806        25,389
Combootiox T-rbinex  2/
Eltax M2 x4                                                                     88           88           88           88            88           88           88           88           88
Seo                               1 x17                                         68           68           68           68            68          68            68           68           68
0n,oilii                          I a 22                                        88           88           88           88            88          88            88           88           88
Cairn North                        1 a 22                                       88           88           88           88             88          88           88           88           88
Port Sid                          2   23                                       184          184          184          184            184        184           184          184          184
Fayoum                            I   22                                        88           88           88           88             88          88           88           88           88
Helwan                            Total of 120 MW                                -          480          480          480           480         480          480           480          480
Talkha                            Total of 192 14W                               -          768          768          768            768         768          768          768          768
Tlhorir Matonan                   I x23                                         92           92           92           92             92          92           92           92           92
Heliopolis                        3 o 12.5                                     150          150          150          150           150         150          150          150          150
Ka.o...                           2 x 12.5                                     100          102          180          100            100         100          100          100          100
El Tebbm                          2 a 25                                         -          200          200          200           200          200          200          200          200
Cairo Est                        2   25                                         -          200          200          200            200         200          200          200          290
Total Combustion T-rbinex                                                    946        2,594        2,594        2,594         2,594       2,594        2,594        2,594        2,594
Hydro Stations 3/
Aswan D                           7 x 46 + 2 x 11.5                          1,800       1,800         1,800        1,800         1,800      1,800          1,800        1,800        1,800
High Dam                          12 t 175                                   7,200       7,200         7,200        7,200         7,200      7,200         7,200         7,200        7,200
An.a.  Expansiox                  Total 160 MW                                   -           -             -            -              -
Esn                               Total 890MW                                    -           -             -            -              -          -             -            -          514
Nag lammadi                       Total 53 -h-W
Ansiot                            Total 48 M                                     -           -             -
Total Hydro                                                                9,000       9,000         9,000        9,000         9,000      9,000         9,000        9,000        9,514
ToCal Available                                                           16,339      19,611        22,955       25,265        26,189    29,402         31,502       34,400       37,497
RFquired Generation                                                       15,529      17,698        19,902       21,881        24,159    26,561         29,155       32,172       34,947
Margic (Deficit)                                                             810       1,913         3,053        3,384         2,030      2,841         2,347        2,228        2,550
As 'G hf Reqoired   eneratiot                                               5.2/.      10.8%         15.3%        15.5%          8.4%      10.7%           8.1%         6.97.        7.32
I/  Baced on 7,000 hone average yearly operation.  I-ereanes r-flect plant cehabilitatiocs.  Redctifons -eflett -chedIed retient of old plnt.
!/  Baned ox 4,000 hauen average yearly operation.
3! Boned ox expected annual water releases for irrigation needs.
SOUtRCE:  FFA ' 1OO-K0 Shou.b-i  El KFo-ma Fe3sibil ty Study, Phone IT Repoo, Soode--s  4 Forcer, Too., Jax.coy 1979.
Jane 1979



-68  loo      -                    -00T   OlCT  Ba    ,8. 1978-1986
-  f                                                                                          T.I.1        T-108,80  f ,1
0110 polot,. oaoIo 1978  ROtoobop 31  177      1 19      197801    MO3    1981        1982     1883      1984     0985       881     i978-1986    ProTiT-         1986
7. 1004017d                6                     -             150       708                  -         -        -         -        -         -            298        25 
TI          -              1~~ ~ ~~~~~50 5                                                                            200         700
9          -              300       110~~~~M.                                                                        450         458
2,  4,80 11 9,000  LI            ~~~~~~4,015      1,TTO    1.385    4.941    4,500   8,1783-                                                 27,47      16,48-
PC              58424               OTT    2.595    5.107    9.010  23,33                                                   19.125      71,049            -
67,450                  2,T5O    1,901   10,141    7,8       0,3146                                               355,98       8012
3.  Io4a01o   01   oO L                          -          1,000      7,677    6,99          -        -                                                 0555       18,155
70              15.606           7.00      40.50    2,53],         -       -15I,33                                                     337,86-
T              70,040           8,10      0,100    9,064                                                                   24,341      39,427
4.  qb 71                  4,1               5,811          4,100      3,942   25,777   12,161         .                   -         -                  46,10       52,510
02      411900          40.~~~110    4.4    00,18    24.351        .                                               141 773    158,078
0       72_0           24,371    44.0517 0,0    37212                                                              188,453    270,18
7.1..o±  40o,7  1,0                 10~            ~~~~    ~~~ 700  2,050    80,00    11,000   6,330                                         25 , 289   25,349
00             I95               7.12      4.004   533300   32.000  1020 5OU3                                                          12,.02
14,01                    ,302      024      040      4,,02,1                                                        7,0        5,2
1.  44,o,) .40  014               .            ~~~~     ~~~~200 1.0  2,700    ,80.8   0,600   1,973                                      0803        0,208
O500                     -07       .78     o 50    57.200  35 101    30,15                                       121.410    0'2,00
1592                     770     0,780    4.17    14,002  14,00       27,100                                     749,4T1     850,07
7.54,       oOl             11.                               2,100     8,707,70                                                                                     00,60
41160011    00        .           5~~~~~"..0   421.90                                                                       _4130        48 900
0.211.1 loooo             00.                              3,000    14,047.                                                                            10,560      2,4
-      24,111          ±~~~11,58  2552                                                                             4,140       52,701
Total I4o0±±  00.000110044   44.  1~~,91         1115        4,137   41,070   24,7161  031,2715    0,925                                      1,74    071,190
I'1,' -4       40,3Ž0 11,0    31,33    11,51 -        3-4553    20,110                                     4007001    000
11.0     1,472   14o,027  170,o41  154.72  78,955    17,101                                         43,74M      0,0
4,  14,41,104-1-11,,0      44                                           "II    0.595    2,564   1.57~3       5,014    2.102    3,740                    2 77, 34 3  27,134
-4    _1-1,1   20,47   _0,19      12,02   11,10430,548                       02,91-      001931%
2.  0±4101114 11-1440100    00  .             .                  44~~9~    11,  I360   1~,410  3,640  1,35    1,091      ,9           045        1,4
ml, 3  00           -               .         -       317    0,933  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1314    17,42  21140  8 I4I   1041 00  7  08  70586
1                                       ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~371~  0,514   7 350 7,277   19,779    9,140   42,10  00,21 8153
1.  11-0-±91, 41,1-        .0                                                     1 44     0001   3,102      7,3110    5,493    2,00      3,709        2311        23,460
11     .               .                 177~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   8,5Ž7,  21,5371   33,-3   31,0  11.292   12,.7  3333     9Ž,3
0101,701   20,073    17,100  ~41,154   00,813   0~1,23     791,571    791,571
1.  1,~~~~~~~~~~a ,,oO,o  40  -  .                                                              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1110    9,210 ,, 11,150 5,70 2,2
10  .      .                                                               5~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,53  1,935  .50  _30.190  20,200
0                                                                          9~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,430   oO,80M 067 0,6  43,210
5.  17-41-60 11TOto    41                        .                                          144   1,007      3,101    1,912    5,293      2",51         20,179     0988            ,205
T                                                     9~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   ,711  10,01    17,400   41,154   20,013  1059078,571        20,222
1.  Iov,12014               0                                                                                                              ,43,43            0     1,00          5.70
10                                                                                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.77  1 933 3,13 1,939
7                                                                          0,501          0,500      08,000      45,500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,- 415
7.  1988-400,1-7solo-    41,                                             214       80     4,047   5,347      0,41    10,,11   10,25        ,5           47.001     55,247        8,845
11                                         3,2Ž7    l,,2     13,6380 47353    _3.24   33,-3   71.09    66.017              009.306    336,3-        51,8
8                                         2,158    7,012   13,455  45,16~   77,717  91,-0   O0,10           77,102        44,7       471,428       15,85
0,  Noo 1,010,411  41                                                          -        .         .    1,400          4,440      34,430       29,098~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,6.  1W  1,4~  9,
3,07          9,00       5,840        54,790
3   000144 601011109  00  .             -           .         .      060  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~0 1'00  0.110    8,0  ,1  ,210       33,280     31.280
04                -           -        .       270   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-3  5.140   5,,3,,53   7000    4.70  25.500  235,53    ___
80 2,207    13,354   13,01    40,500   1100             5,78        51,82 
71   06-991-  Oo-io-     20                                                        4      80    4,617      1,04      9,,1    10,41    10.152          37.941      55,04        7,0
04                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.00  4.770   5,~333    4O.353  06.46  83.1651   7,9,33  29J.139    436,39],  12.22
9                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1.258  ,8 1 1,455    43,-0170,-0   94,OoO    870.51  929.10     477142      142,323
1,1990--l079  l2bo                                                                       174       8-       1,817    5,903    9,743   70,416          027,94      55,240       27,423
00                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~2,004   1.010    10,30   40.953   10.604   83 151  27418476   -393,3  _39-3
2,15    0,0-0     15,455   45,09     77.767   94,007        240,73-      0,8         029,0
1.070          ',7.40    9.0          28,930
13.   981-000184 6441.000    1.4                                            ~~~~      ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25,  221    1,677    5,341    9,1193  17,378  55,214  30,008
141                                                  ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24144  6,010   47,38   40.953   08,1  196.09    419,-3]  333,32
2,21   ,81    15,455   45,196   07,707        107.918    4271,426      929.41
.4.  1392-6000  Io.-0       10                                                                                  204       Il      181      5,0143         8,205     55,247       60,89
71                                                                                2,      _1-33    13,69    40,353          42,085    4-1687        354.70
8                                                           2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~ ~~~~,257  ,1    19,455   43,910  00,220    401,128  408,288
19,  4903-904750 8471200,    20                                                            949    1,011    2,459           3,877      74,583       70,7%~~~~~~~~~~~~4~  ,45  "B  741.  0,7
01                                                                  2 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.05  M3,3    08.-1  29.229    -3,8443    532.625
0                                                                  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~3,008    9.14   20,104  33,716    191,422  683.321
SoolNo--o,l,,1-                                                     2     2,6642      9,025  24,7,4    411,727   55,124   61,948   04,718          074,783    583,074      30,9
114                       2,07133,953         91~~~~~~~~~~~~~42 1102,277   08.089  533,5Ž77  -3333   4216-4  5,533,333  3.63.297   1.056.379
0                                       9,16    21,598      18,434  497,031   332.904  406,662  090,214  497,762        1.981.211  1,942,071   1,98538
boll- 40110l                 2                9,971         100750   35.357   46,836      42,10   oO,-3    13,700   00,124   1 1,008   74,711           491,457    755,564      308,991
TO     43,34.           3,7371 67912     040 371    10  7027.957   90.9.16   -53557  5389,38  423.604            21-8.99   3.9094 960   I156.79
020,09         11,472  148,9612,2            20 19275,9~1   560,018  40,641  451,111  497,76-              ,1,4    4,708,99   1,919,370
1101002200  911,1  l,oIto 8015121S7b- 0041 .-I. I.,l






40- A4O 1-
Page 2 of 10
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECT ICITY AITHORITY
SB0UBR4B EL KHEIMA 'HERMAL POWER PROJECT
Power Sector Deyelopment Program, Base Costs, 1978-1986
(ThousanuLs of LE)
Work is
Pro-ress as of                                                                                                                Total       Beyond
Early 1987 prices              December 31, 1977  1978         1979      1980      1981      1982       1983       1984       1985    1986       1978-1986   Prsiect        1986
11 Transmission
A.  Projoet                     tEC              -                                 -        76        386       274         76        132                     944        944
Seandnois e                 PtFC                                                      575      2.948      2.086        575      1.00l                  7,189      7.189
651     3,334      2,360        651      1,137                   8,133      8,133
T
B.  other transmissio
by in--rrice date 1/
1.  1978 Projects              LC         12,180        1,360                                                                                             1,360    13,540
FC         13,080        1.360                                                                                             1.360    14.440
T        25,260         2,720                                                                                             2,720    27,980
2.  1979 Projecto              LC          5,720        6,930      1,360                                                                                  8,290    14,010
FC          6,150        6,930      1.360                                                                                 8.290    14,440
T        11,870        13,860     2,720                                                                                  16,580    28,450
3.  1980 Projeets              ic              -        5,930      7,500    1,500                                                                        14,930    14,930
PC                      6.6640      7.790    1500                                                                         15,930    15,930
T                      12,570    15,290    3,000                                                                         30,860    30,860
4.  1980  Pro-eeto             U                             -     5,290    6,640    1,360                                                                13,290    13,290
FC                                  5,290    6,570    1.290                                                               13,150    13.150
T                                10,580   13,210    2,650                                                                26,440    26,440
5.  1982 Projects              tC                                            6,860    8,570       1,710                                                  17,140    17,140
FC                                          6.,8O    8.570        1.640                                                   17070    17,070
T                                          13,720   17,140       3,350                                                   34,210    34,210
6.  1983 Proects               LIC                                                     7,640      9,570      1,930                                        19,140    19,140
FC                                                    14.140      9,600      1.930                                        25.670    25.670
T                                                    21,780    19,170       3,860                                        44,810    44,810
7.  1984 Proje-to              LC                                                                 8,140    10,000       2,000                            20,140    20,140
FC                                                                8.000    10.000       2.000                             20 000    20.000
T                                                               16,140    20,000       4,000                             40,140    40,140
S.  1985 Projects              LC                                                                           9,360    11,640       2,290                  23,290    23,290
PC                                                                           9.360    11.710       2,360                  23,430    23,430
T                                                                          18,720    23,350       4,650                  46,720    46,720
9.  1986 Prejeeto              LC                                                                                -     8,640    10,860   2,210           21,710    21,710
EC                                                                                      8.710    10,860   2.140           21.710    21,710
T                                                                                     17,350    21,720   4,350           43,420    43,420
10.  1907 Projecto              LC                                                                                                 9,860  12,360          22,220    24,720        2,500
FC                                                                                                _9,860  12.360          22Q220    24,720        2.500
T                                                                                                19,720  24,720          44,440    49,440        5,000
LI.  1988 Pojects              LIC                                                                                                         10,930         10,930    29,070       18,140
EC                                                                                                        210930          10930    29,070        18.14(
T                                                                                                         21,860         21,860    58,140       36,280
Ietal Transoission e           C         17,900        14,220    14,150   15,00(   17,646   19,806    21,564    22,356    23,142  25,500               173,384   211,924       20,640
FC         L9,230        14,930    14,440   14,j93     24,575   22,188    23,376    22,995    24.085  25.430             186,949   226.B19       20,640
T        37,130         29,150    28,590   29,930   42,221   41,994    44,940    45,351    47,227  50,930               360,333   438,743       41,280
I locludec 5007k, 2396 kV 7 132kV tran--i-ieon lines & sobototi-os
S.or-e:  Sl.,sbrah E7 Kheima Feasibility Stody, Phase II Report, Sandeeson & Petter, I.c. January 1979



- 41 -
Earns ELECaTRCTY AsniOtrry
58H8Vft  tL KEhLD   TlNL  ?01/ER PROJECT
Power Sector Develoewnt Progre, Base Zo-st, 1578-;986
(Thousand. af LE)
Work In
ProEgre.i  as of                                                                                                Total         Tot.1       ceyo-d
Early 1978 pric s          Decber 31, 1977   1978         1979     1980      1981      1982       1983       1984      1985      1986      1978-1986      Projec        1986
III Distribution
N. Cairo & Ale-tedrie (EEA),
by io-ceroice date j7
1. 1978 Projects          LC      25,500        25,570          -                                                                               25,570       51,270
FC       6,400         6.400                                                                                          2.5500       12@00
1 31,900             31,970                                                                                          31,970
2.  1979 Pre .cts         LC           -         25,500    25,570                                                                               51,070        51,070
FC                     6.360      6,430                                                                               12.790       I.2790
T                    31,860    32,000                                                                                63,860       b3,860
3.  1980 Project5         CC           -                   28,140   28,210                                                                      56,350        56,350
FC                                6,140   6.Z10                                                                       122350       12.350
T                               34,280   34,420                                                                      68,700       68,700
4.  .981 Projects         LC                                        25,860   25,860                                                             51,720        51,720
FC                                         4,570    4.570                                                              9,14o        9,140
T                                        30,430   30,430                                                             60,860       60,860
5.  1982 Projects         LC                                                 33,570    33,570                                                   67,140        67,140
FC                                                  6,000     5.930                                                   11,930       .1.930
39,570    39,500                                                   79,070       79,370
6-  7903 Proj-c           LC                                                            37,642     37,640                                       75,2L0        75,715
FC                                                            6.640       6.640                                       13.280       13,280
I                                                           44,280     44,280                                        88,490       88,590
7.  1984 Projoota         LC                                                                       39,290    39,290                             78,580        70,580
FC                                                                        6.930     6,860                             13.790       13_790
T                                                                      46,220    46,150                              92,370       92,370
8.  1985 Projects         LC                                                                                 45,790   45,790                    91,500        91,580
PC                                                                                  8.140    8.070                    16,210       16.210
I                                                                                 53,930   53,860                   107,790      107,790
9.  1986 Projects         LC                                                                                          42,860      42,860        85,720        85,720
LC                                                                                           7,500       7,500        15.000       15,300
I                                                                                          50,360     50,360        100,720      :00.720
10.  1987 Projects C,                                                                                                              48,430        48,430       96,360       48.430
FC                                                                                                     80570            .570       *7370         8.500
57,C00        57,000       113,930      56,930
B. Roral - lcc rllicacloo  LC                     12,088    L8,609   19,920   21,737    18,011      18,000    18,000   18,000      18,000       162,365       t62,365
(REA)  F/               C                     9,862    10,232    9,346    8,665      8.55       10.000    10.000   10.000      iO,QOo        06,960       86.960
T                    21,950    28,841   29,266   30,402    26,866      28,300    28,000   28,000      28,Q00       249,325       249,325
Total Di.ccib-io-      L.C     25,500         63,150    72,319   73,990   80,167    89,151      94,930   103,080  106,650    109,290        793.735       867,665      48,430
FC       6,400        22,622    22,00Z   20,126   19,235    Z1-4Z5      23.570    25.000   25,570      265,70        206.420      221,320       8,500
T      31,900        85,780    95,121   94,116  100,402   110,576    118,300   128,080  132,220    135,360        1,000,155    1,088,985      56,930
IV  General Plant  3/          LC                      3,850     3,080    3,030    3,n856    3,060       3,509     3,600    3,600       3,700        30,500        30,500
FC                     4     _             5,820    4,520    6.340       6.600      6,800    6,90C      7,200         55.400       55400
T                     7,950     8,700    9,850    9,100    9,400       1n,160    10,400   10,500      10,900         85,900       85,900
V  Stodies R..ear h            LC                      2,150     2,810    2,810    2,810    2,820        2,910      2,910    2,010      2,910        25,040        25,040
and Traeicig               FC                          -       730      730       730      730         740        740      740        740          0880         5,880
T                     2,150      3,540    3,340    3,540    3,550        3,650     3,650    3,650      3,650         30,920       30,920
Total 1c-esnc          LC      53,316         99,528   127,716  143,668  147,889  062,873      176,604   187,070  198,250    215,518       1,459,116    1,890,493    37@,061
Pl1o (Early           TC     143.804         86972   156,271  184,977  227,537  27B,640       360,605   409.072  446,463    483,104      2,633.641    4,462.964  1,685.519
1978 prices )
I     197,120       786,100   283,987  352,645  375,426  441,513      537,209   596,142  644,713    690,022      4,092,757    0,353,453   2,303,580
/  ncludes rehsbilitcti-c .          --Oocioc <sF0,
37  1nc1uder rehabilitatioc 6 -0t-cio- work, 66kV 4 below, oosldo Cairo & Alcoatdri.
37  rociudes s-ail con:rrucroor, aas pco-ecs & housng
Source:  Sho brab El Ehoie Fea5ibility Study, Phase II ROport
Sanders  & Porc-r, [nc. Jac-acy 1979



- 42 -
Page 4 08 10
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SB77QRRIU EL K11EIMA THERYAL POWER PROJECT
Pow  Sector Develoeoont Proor-m, Escalated Local CurrencY  Costs. 1978-1986
(Tboosonds of LE)
Total
lase prices . rore 1978                                 1978       1979       1980         1901         1982           1983            1984           1985            1986            1978-1986
Et..li-on tertor                                     0.075      0P236      0.427       O.117         0.851          1.096           1.368           1.676          2.024
A. Peoleens Cnder Constructi2e
1. See (Old)
Base Coat                                   ISO        100                                                                                                                     250
Price  Cnnciogoncy                           11         24                                                                                                                      35
Total Coot                                  161        124                                                                                                                     285
2.   Cafe 7E  Donor
Boor Cost                                2,500      2,385      4,946       4,500        8,136                                                                             22,467
peite Contingency                          188        563      2.112      2822         6.924                                                                             .i2,69
Total Coot                               2,688      2,948      7,058       7,322       15,060                                                                             35,076
3. Capro Wert, 4th Ub,it
RBas  Coot                                1,050      2,600      6,955                                                                                                       10.555
Pet.e  Co-ttetecry                           75        614      2.970                                                                                                        3_659
Toer, CPor                                1,075      3,214      9,925                                                                                                       14,214
C.  AbM" QO
b se Coet                                 6,100      3,942    21,777       12,961                                                                                          46,68D
Price Contoogency                           458        93Q    10,153        8,064                                                                                           19_605
Total Cost                                6,558      4,872    33,930       20,025                                                                                           66,205
3.  Gnr  (N a)
B.pa Coot                                   700      2,250      8,000       9,000        6,339                                                                              25,289
pococ Coottoloocy                            53        531      3,416       5.013         5.394                                                                             14.407
Toool Cptt                                  753      2,781     11,416      13,013       11,733                                                                              39,696
b.  L-motllo
ease Ca                                      200    1,000      2,500       8,8.pO        8,80Q          6,973                                                             28,273
'doce  opocltngoncy                           15        23b     1,068        5,518       _?. 49          7 642                                                              21,968
Tocol C2st                                   215      1,236      J,568      L4,310        16,289         14i615                                                              50,241
le.HrIon 1. ,olkna lipieptuotiop lopbOses
rne'- Pors                                 2,000      8,600                                                                                                                  10,6oO
Ppppo C,clspn.cy                             150      2.030                                                                                                                   2.180
To-al Crat                                 2,150    10,630                                                                                                                   12.780
0.  Ophor Piopboocoop TcctOPro
Dose Cost                                  3,500     14,060                                                                                                                  17,560
Price  ooPIrr- e p                           263      3 318                                                                                                                  3_581
oo1-   Coes                                3,763    17,378                                                                                                                  21,141
B, Neoo Peolooco
1.    -oobr-h tl Ih'ei Lnts Is&I 2
Das- CPt                                               1b6      1,395       _1,584       9,603           5,884          2,982           3,749                              27,3b3
rpi-e Portirecy                                         3         596        ,247       .A21            A               4079            3                                  251333
T"tal lct                                             205      1,991       5,83t        17,775         12,333           7,061          7,500                               52,696
2.  Sh-ob-ohLl  lol i-  Coiti  3
Blo  CPoo                                                          6.         .,rg       1 ,434          3,041           2,354          1, L93          1,499              Io, 945
PricrooeConlpebc 74                                                           250        1_220           4,_20          3,220           4,944           3_034              17,000L
pIc   Ppa,                                                         954        9 1b      27,54            0,051          5,574           0,137          4,533               27,951
03  19ic-60O2  dl-c  I,l
naro CPoa                                                         144       1,201        3,10'           0,312          5,093           2,581          3,245               23,684
P-yte Coesbogoncy                                                  tl         751        2,640           9 ILO           6 967          7,525          6.150               33_b28
-MCo    - Coot                                                    305       1,964         5,742          3,422          17,064         10,106           9,813               57,312
4s. esapi Bydro
naoo Cose                                                                                                                               1,860           9,290               11,150
Petit CPttoptice                                                                                                                       90385           1  083               27  6S
Total C-s                                                                                                                              11,245          27,373              38,618
5.  1957-6Q01. Thpet
B0_  Cr                                                                       144         1,207          3,102          8,312           5,093           2,581              20,439
-ptie C-ntig.....                                                              90        1.27L           3.400          11.371          8,536           5,224               29_648
'loal Poot                                                                    434         6,33           b,502         19,603          13,629          7,885               50,087
C. Atrout EYdeo
Tr  - or                                                                                                                                             1,430                1,430
P     Poi- C-oeae-y                                                                                                                                     2_894               28940
pe-a  CPop                                                                                                                                              4,324                4,324
7.  198-6600rw loploac
loot 'poet                                             254        801       1,811        5,343           9,1o3         10,416          10,152           9,05b              47,002
PeoePtoop,                                               0        342       1 139        _4541          00 )047        14a249          17.,015         18_329             .112,2224
rct1 Coo       n311                                             1,1423      2,956         9.890         )9,026          24,065         77,163          27,385              712,72b
S.  tag- _H-at   oydr_o
po P     I.s                                                                                                                                            1,640                1,640
PtOaC, tlo3 p                                                                                                                                                                   191
1oc1 o:ore                                                                                                                                             4,959                4,959
9.   ap-n ERtenP-
roas  Coo-                                                                    660        1,200           8,210           1,500          9,500           7,210              35,280
Pricc CooOOnpoeppc                                                            p17        1.V21           0.998         11,628          15.922         14.593               52,576
Total CPot                                                                  0,074        2,221          17,208         20,128          25,422         21,803                87,856
10.  1989-6400C0 OlocLeO-
tRap Po.r                                                         254         801         1,817          5,343          9.163          10,416         10,137                37,946
Price  .tPlogcy,-c                                                1os         502        1.546           5 g5t         112,535         17 457         20 548               58.552
Int.bl Co.t                                                       362       i,0n3         3,363         11,199         21,698          27,973         30.700                96,498
11.  1990600t  top loot
0asc Crp                                                                     3254           801          1,917           5,342          9,163          10,416               27,789
Peoct C:orton1aop                                                             159           bg_%2        1,991           73            15,357          21_082               466580
Tote     r Ct                                                                 413         1,483          3,808          17,652         24,520          31,498               74,374
12.  1990-1571t  P-prd Itoro.
laip  PorO                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44D  648
et   s   o t o  1o t9                                                                                                                                       5                1 . 2 9 5
1,935               1,935
l3.  1991-600210 N-leor
Procc PpolLtingency                                                                        425             BOT           1,817          5,343           9,10t               17,378
Pelce Pontlo1eopy                                                    71~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZI6  870  2.1186  8,5         18,544              _31,
Tocol Post                                                          ~~~~         ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~              ~~470  1,679  4,503  14,298  27,770  48.459
14.  L992-600v8 Or-leor
op,oe Contingen.Y                                                                                          254             801          1,817           5,343                8,215
tecaPotlg-      a                                                                                          278           1.040451                      10.14                15.233
Tota  Coo                                                                                                  132           1,892          4,862          16.158               2344C8
15.  1993-900101 N-rl-at
lrIe   Pope                                                                                                                343          1,081           2,453                3,877
iro.t tirsto -po                                                                                                           465          1.002           4.9_45               1.246
Totol Coo                                                                                                                  812          1,893           7,410               11,123
Tonal Pap  C,o,t                        14,155     95,357         48,838   43,18t    48,036             p2,700          55,124         61,948          74.i10             436,457
ToLr  Color_ Cros- 1o,oc3                            _3402        6 9,892   70,275   g40070             58.55           751409        113,704         19294               495.427
CC _ reo e   op17,363j    P3,702                                 69,691   70,241      80,904          111,555         130,533        175,452        223.412              912,084






- 43-
EGYPT                                                                                     Pags 9 of 10
EGYPTIBlN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
880oUBRA1 EL HEIIEBIA ThEMA.L POWER PROJECT
Power Sector DIevelssest Proarsac. Escl1ated Local C.ireocy Costs. 1978-1986
(Thosseode of LE)
Total
boss prices. ecrly 1978                                                          1978       1979       1980       1981        1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1978-1986
-Isalttios Factor                                                              0.075      0.236      0.427      0.627       0.851      1.096      1.368      1.676      2.024
IL Pronssoissise
A     a   Cost                                                                                                  76         386        274         76        132                        944
Prior t Coisocy                                                                                           48          328       330        104        221                      1.001
Total Cost                                                                                                124         714       574        180        353                      1,945
B.  Other 1pansa..ssio..   ty i,-s-evice dots
1. 1978 Projects
Bose Cost                                                         1,360                                                                                                    1,360
Price CootitSency                                                   102                                                                                                      102
Totol Cost                                                        1,462                                                                                                    1,462
2.  1979 FPe,Pcts
sasE  Cost                                                        6,930      1,360                                                                                         8,290
Price Co-tingency                                                   520        321                                                                                            841
TotaL Cost                                                        7,450      1,681                                                                                         9,131
3.  1960 Psoritts
Base Cost                                                         5,930      7,300      1,300                                                                             14,933
Price Contingency                                                   445      1.770        641                                                                              2,856
Totol Cost                                                        6,375      9,270      2,141                                                                             17,786
4.  1981 Poiects
Pase Costi                                                            -      5,290      6,640      1,360                                                                  13,293
PeicsI. Cottogsy                                                             1,,2f8     ia935      _033                                                                    4 93b
Yotal Cost                                                                   6,538      9,475      2,213                                                                  18,226
5.  1982 Pro.csts
Bate Cost                                                             _          _      6,860      8,570       1,710                                                      17,140
Price Cootiogesy                                                                        2,929      5.373       1,455                                                       97,157
roS_ Cost                                                                               9,789     3,943        3,165                                                      26 897
6. I963 ProSocts
B,se Cost                                                                                          7,640       9,570      1,930                                          19,140
Pelts Contisgency                                                                                  4.792       8,144      2.115
Total Cost                                                                                        12,430       7,714      4,045                                          14,189
7.  1984 Proiocts
Bess Cort                                                                                                      S,o40    10,000        2,000                              20,140
Pri-e  Contiogency                                                                                             6,927    10.960        2,736                              20,623
Total Cost                                                                                                    15,067    20,960        4,736                             40,763
8. 1980 Pro jacts
Bass Cost                                                                                                                19380       15,640    2,290                    23,290
Pelts looEieft-y                                                                                                         10.259      1592      3.838                    29~020
Tcal Cost                                                                                                               19,619      27,564    G,128                     53,311
9. 1986 Projects
Bass Cost                                                                                                                             8,640   10,860        2,210        21,711
Price Cootineeecy                                                                                                                    11.820   18,201                     3 ,73  34 094
TotOl Cost                                                                                                                           20,460   29,061       t,683         56,204
10. 1907 Pcciects
sass Cost                                                                                                                                      9,860      10,3bO         22,220
Price Costingency                                                                                                                              16,525     25,017        41 542
Total Cost                                                                                                                                     26,385     37,377         63,762
II. 0988 Pro1ects
Base Cost                                                                                                                                                 10,930        10,930
PeteCoettsoE_y                                                                                                                                            22.122         22l022
Tctsl Cost                                                                                                                                                39,052         33,052
Total Base Cost                                                  14,220    14,150    15,000       17,646      19,806    21,564      22,356   23,142       21,500       173,384
otal Price Coetigenoy                                             1,067      3.339      6,405     11.064    16,854    23_634        30,584   38.785       51.612       183_344
Total Tr_ssaisssie LI Escalated Cost                             15,287    17,489    21,405       28,710    36,660    45,198        52,940   61,927       77,112       356,729



- 454 -
ANIEX 1 4
EGYPT                                                                          Page 6 of 10
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SROUBRAd EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Power Sector  Developest Pro,rrsm. Escalated Local Currency Cost. 1978-1986
(Thousands of LE)
Total
Base Price, early 1978                           1978     1979       1980      1981       1982        1983         1984         1985        1986        1978-1986
Escalation factor                            0.075    0.236       0.427    0.627       0.851       1.096        1.368        1.676      2.024
III Distribution
A. Cairo & Alexandria (EtA),
by ie-service date
1.  1978 Projects
Base Coot                     25,570                                                                                                     25,570
Peice Contiogescy               1.918                                                                                                      1.918
Total Cost                     27,488                                                                                                    27,488
2. 1979 Projects
hase Cost                     25,500   25,570                                                                                            51,070
Price Coetingeocy               1.913    6.034                                                                                             7947
Total Cost                     27,413   31,604                                                                                           59,017
3. 1980 Projects
Base Coot                               28,140    28,210                                                                                 56,350
Price Cootisgeecy                        6.641    12.046                                                                                 18.687
Total Cost                              34,781    40,256                                                                                  75,037
4. 1981 Projects
Base Cost                                          25,860   25,860                                                                       51,720
Price Cootingeney                                  11.042   16.214                                                                       27.256
Total Cost                                         36,902   42,074                                                                       78,976
5. 1982 Projects
Blse Cost                                                   33,570      33,570                                                           67,140
Price Cootiogency                                           21.048      28.568                                                           49.616
Total Cost                                                  54,618      62,138                                                          116,756
6. 1983 Projects
Base Coot                                                               37,570      37,640                                               75,210
Price Contingeocy                                                       31.972      41,253                                               73.225
Total Cost                                                              69,542      78,893                                              148,435
7. 1984 Projects
Base Cost                                                                           39,290       39,290                                   78,580
Price Coetingency                                                                   43.062       53.749                                  96.811
Total Coot                                                                          82,352       93,030                                 175,391
8. 1985 Projects
Base Coot                                                                                        45,790      45,790                      91,580
Prics Cootisgeecy                                                                                62.641      76.744                     139.385
Total Cost                                                                                      108,431    122,534                      230,965
9. 1986 Proieeta
Base Cost                                                                                                    42,860      42,860          85,720
Price Conting.eny                                                                                            71.833       86.749        158.582
Total Cost                                                                                                  114,693      129,609        244,302
10. 1987 Projects
Base Cost                                                                                                                48,430          48,430
Price Cootiogeecy                                                                                                        98.022          98.022
Total Cost                                                                                                               146,452        146,452
B.  Rural Electrificatioo (REA)
Base Cost                     12,088   18,609    19,920   21,737        18,011    18,000         18,000      18,000       18,000        162,365
Price Costiegeocy                 907    4.392      8,506   13.629      15,327    19.728         24,624      30.168      36.432         153.713
Total Cost                     12,995   23,001    28,426   35,366       33,338    37,728         42,624      48,168       54,432        316,078
Total Boar Ctst                63,158   72,319    73,990   81,167       89,151    94,930        103,080    106,650      109,290         793,735
Total Price Costingeocy         4.738   17 067    31,594   50.891       75.867   104.043        141.014    178.745      221.203         825.162
Total DiBtributioo
LC Escalated Cost            67,896   89,386   105,584  132,058    165,018   198,973           244,094    285,395      330,493       1,618,897
IV C--eral Plant
Base Cost                      3,850    3,080       3,030    3,080       3,060      3,500         3,600       3,600       3,700          30,500
Price Cootiegeecy                 289      727      1,294    1.931       2.604      3.836         4.925       6.034        7,489         29.129
Total Cost                      4,139    3,807      4,324    5,011       5,664      7,336         8,525       9,634       11,189         59,629
V Stdies., Research & Tr-ining
Base Ctst                       2,150    2,810      2,810    2,810       2,820      2,910         2,910       2,910        2,910         25,040
Price Cootingoocy                 161      663      1,200    1,762       2.400      3.189         3 981       4.877        5.890         24,123
Total Cost                      2,311    3,473      4,010    4,572       5,220      6,099         6,891       7,787        8,800         49,163
Total Base Cost
Total Price Cootingeocy        99,528  127,716   143,668  147,889    162,873   176,604          187,070    198,250      215,518       1,459,116
Total LC esealated              7.468   30.141    61,347   92,723    138.603   193.557          255,913    342,145      435.488       1,557,385
Cost                         106,996  157,857   205,015  240,612    301,476   370,161           442,983    540,395      651,006       3,016,501



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTEICITY AUTHORITY                                                                    PRge 7 of 10
ShOUgRA8  EL COTEIfA ThERt{1L POWER PROJECT
Powe  Secto  Develop-ot Prora. E-r1ltrd Porejo  CrEots Costs.  978-1966
(Tho-coodo of LR equivLoot - LE I = US$1.401
To.t I
dEto  tl-eo,  -arly 1978                                    1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984       1985        1986        197S-1986
Etoelati-o Fact-r                                        0.0375      0.1048     0.1737       0.2442     0.3119      0.3979      0.4818      0.5707      0.6650
I loceratloc
A.   roloet, tod-r Coot-troeto
1.    ro (01d)85
Oaoc Coot                                       150          50                                                                                                  200
Price Co-tine8.tY                                  6           5                                                                                                  81
Iotl Coot                                       156          55                                                                                                  211
2. tafr El Door
Goot Coot                                       150       2,595       5,200       3,000       2,180                                                           13,125
Prie  Cootino-ey                                  6         272         903         733         680                                                            2,594
Total Cost                                      156       2,0o7       6,103       3,733       2,860                                                           15,719
3.  Cairo Woot, 4th o7tt
. or bet                                      7,200       4,500       2,106                                                                                  13,806
7rice Cootlegoesuy                        270         472         366                                                                                   1,108
TocaI Coot                                    7,470       4,972       2,472                                                                                   14,914
4. Ab, Qit
Loo  Cooe                                    18,220      40,h15      58,587      24,351                                                                     141,273
Pric   --otoo0o-oy                             683       4.256      10.176      53147                                                                       7160
ctol Coot                                   18,903      44,871      68,763      30,098                                                                     162,835
5.  S.;ot2o)
lac  Coot                                     1,620       4,000      52,000      32,UOO      18,31,0                                                         109,920
Pi-e toottetety                                  61        6O)        9,032       7.814       5,708                                                           23.244
toe-  Coot                                    1,681       6,629      61,032      39,814      24,008                                                         133,164
6.  _I-oiliL
b_o  Coot                                       500       1,780       o,600      57,200      35,200     20,130                                               121,410
Pote,  Cocelc- occy                               19        186        ,t46      13.968      100.79       8 010                                               34,38
Totl Cloot                                       519      1,096       7,746      71,160      ',h179      28,140                                              155,718
7.  Ocloal     & Talkho CLmhootion TLobinte
bLse Cost                                     5,400      42,900                                                                                              48,300
202      4.49                                                                                                 4.698
-o,tL  coot                                   5,602      47,394                                                                                               52,998
8.   0,4cc Coombtion Lorbines
Ttoo  Coot                                   12,080      11,460                                                                                               23,540
-e            _-c Cootegoocy                    133        ,201                                                                                                1,654
otal Cot *,533                                           12 ,661                                                                                             25,194
1.  Shoubrth El t tiC i   Lnits I & 2
Otto (.Obt                  --                               35       9,803      25,386      68,301     41,663      21,122      26,543                      193,968
polot Contooogeccy                                           81       1,77        6.199      01,394      16,578      1O,177      17,477                      71,297
Total Coot                                                 685       11,162o     ?1,585      09,985     58,241      31,000      41,699                    1.265.265
2. Shooltod El Chotet lolli 3
-boe loot                                                               310       3,933      10,154      27,436     16,635       8,449      10,619            77,586
PoiLc  C-oeli--eoc                                                       54         965       3.167     10,917         _2 5      48j 2        , 7.062        3594>
-tal  t-t                                                               364      4,910       15,3?1     38,353      24,694      13,271      17,681          112,602
3.  19h6-60L,U.  trh-1
-  I-t 6o71                                                                      8,554      21,971    529,38        31o, lt     18.202      22,978          167,887
PtI-c  CooIoogeocy                                                      117       2 089       6 s53     2 3 623     17374       10_434      115280           75,770
Total Coot                                                               0       lO,tb3      28,826      82,991     53,435      28,71o      38,258          243,657
4.  Ecto 4yd-2
B6,0  Coot                                                                                                                       1,570       7,930            9,500
PrIc- Cocelce                                                                                                                       896      5,273            6.169
l otal Coot                                                                                                                      7,666      13,203           19,669
5.  1907-60t5 1TI-eroal
hate `Cot                                                                           L71       8,554     21,972    53,388        36,001      18,282          144,909
IoNt  Cotttogroop                                                                   164       2,E65       8,743     28.604      209250      12.158           72.910
tIo     Cotin                                                                       03       11,227     30,716      07,970      56,641      90,660          217,826
6.  A.s.y-t lodro
loot Co,t                                                                                                                                    I,070             1,070
Price-oooinse>'                                                                                                                                712               712
Icto  coot                                                                                                                                   1,782             1,782
7. 1908-600810 Notloar
Oat,, O,oc                                                C2,004  h,Olo          11,638      40,353     68,604      83,651      26,890      68,317          359,376
Polo,, Coologoocy                                           0210      1,044       3 330      12.586     27, 297     40303       430886      45.3o4          1748020
IdoLl Ooce                                                 2,214      7,054       16,968    52,939      95,901    123,954    120,785    113,581             533,306
8.  too 1lemradi llyd1o
100     - Coot                                                                                                                               1,430             1,430
Pioe- Co-tilel-y                                                                                                                                951              95
-Iot -I ot                                                                                                                                   2,381             2,381
9. AOeo E--xccioi
B0se Coot                                                                           210       1,000       5,140       5,360      7,000       4,790           23,500
Potoo Cootiogeocy                                                                    51         312       2,045      2.582       3.995       3.135           12,170
r. tol 6000                                                                        t20        1,311      7,105       7,042      10,905       7,975           35,670
10.  1589-6001b No-lco-
Coot Coos                                                             2,004 04      s140     13,tJ8     40,353      6t,b04      03,651      76,899          291,159
Proto Cortingeroc                                                       347P      194L        4.254      Ih,056     33,U53      47,40       51.138          154,057
lord   oct                                                            2,352       7,478     17,892      56,409    101,657      131,391    128,037           445,216
11.  09'J-AbU0I17 Oto-leer
0as. C-st                                                                         2,004       6,010      13,638     40,353      08,604      83,651          214,260
Oroec Cctlo0ti 0cy                                                                  489       1.875       5.427      19,442     39.152      55 628           122.013
1-ted  Coo                                                                        2,493       7,885      19,065     59,795    107,756    139,279            336,273
12.  1950-150L* Pottod Itoococ
Bott Cool                                                                                                                                     430                430
M0Ic  I ootcioloy                                                                                                                            286                286
Oo-ol Coot                                                                                                                                    716                716
13.  1991-600810 Nucler
Boot Cost                                                                                     2,004       6,010      13,638     40,353    68,604            130,609
Prece Co-Li--ec                                                                                 625       2.391      6_571       23.029    45 622            78 238
lotol Cost                                                                                    2,629       8,401     20,209      63,382   114,276            208,847
14.  1992-600510 EocleLe
Btss Cost                                                                                                 2,004       6,010     13,638    40,353             62,005
Prior Cotoiontg y                                                                                           792       2,         7,783    26,835              385311
TBI Co-o                                                                                                  2,801       8,906     21,421    67,188             100,316
15.  1993-90010 -tIoLleor
Boot Coot                                                                                                             2,705      8,113    18,411              29,229
`cet  oa_tioo3e,7                                                                                                                4,630    12,243              18. 176
Total Coo                                                                                                            4,008       12,743    30,654            47,405
Total 0ase Coat                              45,320    112,679   143,371    176,977    227,957    306,319          353,537    389,168   423,664           2,178,992
lE      i Pr -oodoolgeooy                     1,700      lI 58    249 903      43,217      71.101    12L.88        170,334    222.098   281.737             948,782
oo        -I Generati   PC Escaited Cost    42,020    124,487   L68,274    220,194    299,058    428,203          523,871    611,266   705,401           3,127,774






- 46 -
ADNMY i.4
EGYPT                                                                            Page 8 of 10
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Power Sector Develop.=en Pro-rg-  Escalated Foreign Currency Costs, 1978-1986
(Thous-ads of LE Equivalent - 1 LI * US$1.40)
Totall
la.e Prices, e-rly 1978                                    1978         1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986         1978-1986
Escalation FPLort                                       0.0375       0.1048     0.1737       0.2442      0,3119      0.3979      0.4818      0.5707      0.6650
II Iranceission
A.  Proiect T-osaisaloc
Beer Coat                                                                                575      2,948      2,086         575        1,005                      7,189
Pri-e Centingec-y                                                                        140        919        830         277          574                      2.740
total Coat                                                                               715     3,867       2,916         852        1,579                      9,929
B.  Other trocaisiastoc. by
in--ervice dote
1. 1978 Pro -erta
Base Coat                                   1,360                                                                                                            1,360
Price Coctingency                              51                                                                                                               51
Total Cost                                  1,411                                                                                                            1,411
2. 1979 Projects
Boar Coct                                   6,930        1,360                                                                                               8,290
Price Continge-cy                             260          143                                                                                                 403
Tortl Cost                                  7,190        1,303                                                                                               8,693
3. 1980 Proircts
Bose Cost                                   6,640        7,790       1,500                                                                                  15,930
Price Cocticgce-t                             249          816         261                                                                                   1.326
Totol Cost                                  6,889        8,606       1,761                                                                                  17,256
4. 1981 Projects
Blse Cost                                                5,290       6,570         1,290                                                                    13,150
Price Cociog-cy                                            336       12141           315                                                                     2.010
Total Cost                                               5,844       7,711         1,605                                                                    15,160
5. 1982 Projects
loss Cost                                                            6,960         8,570     1,640                                                          17,070
Price Continge-cy                                                    1.192         2.093       512                                                           3.797
Total Cot                                                             B,052       10,663     2,152                                                          20,867
6. 1903 Pro-tect
Boor Ctet                                                                        14,140      9,600       1,930                                              25,670
Porie Coctingency                                                                  3453      2.994         768                                               7.215
Totl Ctet                                                                        17,593    12,594       2,698                                              32,885
2.  1904 Pro-tet
Bo   Coat                                                                                    8,000      10,000       2,000                                  20,000
Pricer Ctotingoey                                                                            2.495       3.979         964                                   7.438
T.t1l Coot                                                                                  10,495      13,979       2,964                                  27,438
0. 1905 Prolerte
B..e C-ot                                                                                                9,360      11,710        2,360                     23,430
Prire Contingec-y                                                                                        3.724       5 642        1.347                     10 713
Total Coot                                                                                              13,084      17,352        3,707                     34,143
9. 1986 Pr-jecca
Boar Coat                                                                                                            8,710       10,860      2,140          21,710
Pri-e Contioge-ry                                                                                                    4 196        6,198        1.423        11 817
total Cost                                                                                                          12,906       17,058      3,563          33,527
10.  1907 Project
B.as Coet                                                                                                                         9,860     12,360          22,220
Prire Contiogency                                                                                                                 5,627      8.219          13.846
Total Cost                                                                                                                       15,487     20,579          36,066
11. 1988 Projects
Boar Cost                                                                                                                                   10,930          10,930
Price Contingency                                                                                                                            7.268           7.268
Total Coat                                                                                                                                  18,198          18,198
Total Bose Cost                            14,930       14,440      14,930       24,575    22,188      23,376      22,995       24,085      23,430         186,949
Total Price Continge-cy                       560        1.513       2,594        6,001      6.920       9,301     11,079       13.746      16 910          68.624
Torel Trac-oissi-c FC Escalated Coat       15,490       15,953      17,524       30,576    29,108      32,677      34,074       37,831      42,340         255,573



- 47 -
ATllRX 1. 
EGYTPage 9 of 10
tCYPTIAB ELECTRIC7TY AUTRORITY
SOSUBRA4  EL IWEBMk THER11L POWER PROJECT
Poer Sector DeveloPont Prontr. Escalated FPreima Cerseocy Corst. 1978-1986
(Thossands of IE Eauivalent - I LE -US01.40)
Base prices.  earlV 1978                                  1978        1979       1980         1981         1982       1983        1984       1985         1986      1978-1986
Escalation factor                                      0.0375     0.1048      0.1737       0.2442      0.3119      0.3979     0.4818      0.5707       MM
III Distribotion
A.  Cairo & Ale-a-dei- (eE65. by
in-service date
1.  1978 Projects
Base Cost                                  6,400                                                                                                          4,400
Price Coetingency                             240                                                                                                           240
Totl Coot                                  6,640                                                                                                         6,640
2. 1979 Projects
Bo. Costs                                  6,360       6,430                                                                                            12,790
Price Cottiog .cy                             239        674                                                                                               913
Total Cost                                 6,599       7,104                                                                                             13,703
3. 1980 Projects
Base Cost                                              6,140      6,210                                                                                  12,350
Price Co-tiegency                                        643       1.079                                                                                  1.722
Totol Cost                                             6,783       7,289                                                                                 14,072
4. 1981 Projects
Base Cost                                                         4,570        4,570                                                                     9,140
Price Co-tiagency                                                    794       1,116                                                                      1.910
Total Cost                                                         5,364       5,686                                                                     11,050
5. 1982 Pro-jeet
Bose Cost                                                                      6,000        5,930                                                       11,930
Price Co-tinges.y                                                              1.465        1.850                                                         3.315
Total Cost                                                                     7,465        7,780                                                        15,245
6. 1983 Pro-eeSs
Base Cost                                                                                   6,640      6,640                                            13,280
Price Coctingency                                                                           2.071      2.642                                             4,713
Tetol Cost                                                                                  8,711      9,282                                            17,993
7. 1984 Projects
Base Cost                                                                                              6,930       6,860                                13,790
Price Cootiengocy                                                                                      2,757       3.305                                 6 062
Total Cost                                                                                             9,687      10,165                                 19,852
8. 1985 Proiects
Base Coos                                                                                                          8,140      8,070                     16,210
Price Coetingency                                                                                                  3.922      4.606                      88 82
Total Cast                                                                                                        12,062     12,676                     24,738
9.  1986 Pr-jeets
Bas  Cost                                                                                                                     7,500       7,500         15,000
Price Continge-cy                                                                                                            4.280        4.98           926
Total Cost                                                                                                                   11,780      12,488         24,268
10. 1987 Pro-ect
Base Cost                                                                                                                                 8,570          8,570
Price Contingency                                                                                                                         5.699          5,699
Total Cost                                                                                                                               14,269         14,269
B..Rural Ilectrtficotion (REA)
Base Cost                                  9,862      10,232       9,346       8,665        8,855     10,000      10,040     10,000      10,000         86,960
Price Contiogescy                             370      1 072       1.623       2.116        2,762      3.979      4.818       5.707       6 650         29.097
Total Cost                                10,232      11,304      10,969      10,781       11,617     13,979      14,818     15,707      16,650        116,057
Totol nose Cost                           22,622      22,802      20.126      19,235       21,425     23,570      25,000     25,570      26,070        206,420
Total Price Cootingeocy                       849      2.389       3,496       4,697        6.683    9J378        12.045     14,593      17.337         71.467
Total Distribotion
FC Escolated Cost                        23,471      25,191     23,622       23,932       28,108     32,948      37,045     40,163     43,407         277,887
IV G.eeral Plaot
Bose Cost                                  4,100       5,620       5,820       6,020        6,340      6,600       6,800      6,900       7,200         55,400
Price Costingeney                             154        589       1.011       1,470        1.977      2,626       3d276      3.938      4,788          19.829
Tote1                                      4,254       6,209      6,831        7,490        8,317      9,226      10,076     10,838      11,988         75,229
V  Studies. Reseerch 6 Trainin7
Base Cos                                        -        730         730         730          230        740         740        740         740          5,880
Price Coatiege-cy                                         77         127         178          228        294         356        422         492           2.174
Total                                                    807         857         908          958       1,034      1,096       1,162      1,232          8,054
Total Bose Cost                           86,971    156,271    184,977       227,537    278,640      360,605    409,072    446,463    483,104        2,633,641
Total Price Contingency                     3.263     16.376      32,131      55.563      86.909     1434 483    197,090    254.797    321.264       1.110.876
Total FC Escalated Coot                   90,235    172,647    217,108       283,100    365,549      504,088    606,162    701,260    804,368        3,744,517



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTORITY
SHOUBKAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Power Sector Development Program, Summary of Escalated Costs. 1978-1986
(Thousands of LE)
Description                                       1978        1979         1980        1981        1982        1983        1984         1985        1986        1978-1986
I.  Generation            LC                       17,363       43,702      69,692      70,261      88,914    112,555    130,533    175,652    223,412                932,084
FC                        7,020    124487    168,274    2                            428203    523.871    611,266    705,401             3.127,774
T                       64,383    168,189    237,966    290,455    388,072    540,758    654,404    786,918    928,813                  4,059,858
II.  Transmission          LC                        15,287      17,489      21,405      28,710      36,660      45,198       52,940      61,927      77,112           356,728
FC                       15,490      15,953      17,524       30,576      29,108      32,677      34,074      37,831       42,340           255.573
T                       30,777      33,442      38,929      59,286      65,768       77,875      87,014      99,758    119,452            612,301
III.  Distribution          LC                        67,896      89,386    105,584    132,058    165,018    198,973    244,094    285,395    330,493                 1,618,897
FC                       23,471      25,191       2           23,932      28,108      32,948      37,045      40,163       43,407           277.887
T                       90,367    114,577    129,206    155,990    193,126    231,921    281,139    325,558    373,900                  1,896,784
TV.  General Plant         LC                         4,139       3,807       4,324       5,011       5,664        7,336       8,525       9,634      11,189            59,629
FC                        4,254       6,209        6,831       7,490       8,317       9,226      10,076       10.838      11,988            75,229
T                        8,393      10,016      11,155       12,501      13,981      16,562      18,601      20,472       23,177           134,858
V.  Studies, Research   LC                           2,311       3,473       4,010       4,572       5,220        6,099       6,891       7,787       8,800            49,163
and Training         FC                             -         807         857         908         958       1,034       1              162       1,232             8,054
T                        2,311       4,280       4,867        5,480       6,178       7,133       7,987        8,949      10,032            57,217
Total                 LC                      106,996    157,857    205,015    240,612    301,476    370,161    4425983    540,395    651,006                  3,016,501
FC                       90,235    172,647    217 108    283,100    365,549    504,088    606,162    701,260    804,368                   3,744,517
T                      197,231    330,504    422,123    523,712    667,025    874,249  1,049,145  1,241,655  1,455,374                  6,761,018
June 1979



49 -                                 ANNEX 1.5
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Main Tasks to be Covered in Load Management Study
The main tasks to be covered during the study are:
(a) to identify loads that might be adjusted in response to differential
pricing or other commercial arrangements such as supply agreements
with load cut-off or contingent load shedding (with or without warning).
This will involve detailed discussion with selected consumers (industrial,
commercial and agricultural) and investigation of the alternative types
of power utilization equipment and of energy available to them;
(b) to estimate the magnitude and timing of changes in the global pattern of
power demand that might result from the application of such pricing or
other commercial techniques;
(c) to develop data on the costs of power supply at different times of day
and seasons and in different areas (bulk supply costs for different
shapes of load curve under different Aswan reservoir conditions plus
system transmission and distribution costs);
(d) to review the various technical methods of load control, e.g., off-peak
metering, ripple control and local limiters, with particular reference
to the costs and feasibility of applying them in the EEA system;
(e) to determine whether the savings from adopting load control measures
mentioned in (a) above would outweigh their costs; and
(f) to make recommendations regarding the specific measures that should be
adopted by EEA to adjust demand to system capability, and how these measures
should be implemented.
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors     
Deputy
Chai man
|   Legal Adv,so                                                            Tehic, -Ai
|Chief Office of Elect Police]                                                                Lea Diison
|Director of Security Office   |                                              Gen. Dieto =P
|Director of Public Relations                                                  Auditor
|Deputy Cha,r an                                                    |Deputy Chairman                                 '                                                                _ n
Fi nance &                                                        Operation                                                  .. 
Administration                                                        Sector
Managing Director                        Managing Director                                          Gen inspectr  I        Gen !nspecto-   |       en. Inspector
anpom er &                               Economics &                                               Dispatching              Projec                    ies
Administration                          Financial Affairs                                                                                          Research
GDen. DireP.Ctor        Gen. Director               Gee. Director                      Den Director                   retor         Gen. Director,         Gen. Director
Personnel            Planning & Org.                Financial                                                   Central           Power Stations         Power Stations
Administration            Manpower                      Affair                           Emergency               Dispatch               Projects          Studies/Research
Gen. Director            Gen. Director               Gen. Director                      Gen Director          Gen. Director          Gen. Director  |         en. Director
Indcustr Ia              Training                     A  C fcar                       Power Stations       m& Dupicatings          Net Projects         Network Studies
Security                                              &ffResearcheratin
|DGen. Director   L     DH Gen Director             D |   Gen. Director    [            Gee. Director  L  | Gen. DirectqG D c     | Director  Gen. Director  Ge
Administrative           Elect Power             Budget & Financing                       Networks              Instruments          Civil Projects 
Gen. Director         Gen. Director          Gee. Director          Gen. Director
[Central Chemical         Computers             Purchasing          PaEcononic Studiest
--I                              I              .                                                 1.I
Head of                         Head of                        Head of                         H Fead of                       Head of                           Seven
Upper Egypt Electricity             Canal Electricity              Delta Electricity               Alex. Electricity               Cairo Electricity                  Distribution
Zone .                          Zone                           Zone                            Zone                            Zone                          Companies
World Bank - 20021
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL-KHEIMA THERMAL POWER STATION
Estimated Local Currency Costs. Thousands of LE
Base Prices, early 1978                                                                                                                                      Total
1978        1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985          1978-1985
Description
A.  Power Station
2 x 300MW Steam Turbine Capacity                             155       1,298        3,334        8,933        5,473        2,774        3,487           25,454
Physical Contingency (7 1/2%)                                 11           97         250          670          411          208          262             1,909
Subtotal                                                166        1,395        3,584        9,603        5,884        2,982        3,749           26,363
Price Contingency                                             39          596       2,247        8      ,172  6,449                     3,751           25,333
Total Power Station                                     205        1,991        5,831       17,775       12,333        7,061        7,500           52,696
B.  Transmission Lines
4km of four circuits
Overhead and UG 220kV                                                                   69         351          249           69          120               858
Physical Contingency                                                                     7          35           25            7           12                86
Subtotal                                                                           76          386          274           76          132              944
Price Contingency                                                                      48          328          300          104          221             1,001
Total Transmission                                                                124          714          574          180          353            1,945
C.  Technical Assistance_
Studies, Research and Training                                            300         400                                                                   700
Physical Contingency                                                       15           20                                                                   35
Subtotal                                                             315          420                                                                  735
Price Continigency                                                        134          263                                                                  397
Total Technical Assistance                                           449          683                                    _                           1.132
TOTAL PROJECT                                            205       2,440        6,638       18,489       12,907        7241         7.853           55,773
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL-KHEIMA THERMAL POWER STATION
Estimated Foreign Currency Costs, Thousands of LE Equivalent - LEI - US$1.4
Base Prices, early 1978
Total
1978    1979         1980          1981          1982         1983          1984         1985           1978-1985
Description
A. Power Station
2 x 300 MW Steam Turbine Station                               721        9,194         23,614       63,805       38,756        19,649       24,696           180,435
Physical Contingency (7 1/2%)                                   54           689         1,772        4.786         2 7          1473          1,852            13,533             1
Subtotal                                                   775        9,883        25,386        68,591       41,663        21,122       26,548           193,968             U
Price Contingency                                               81        1,717          6,199       21,394        16,578       10,177        15,151            71,297
Total Power Station                                        856       11.600        31.585        89.985       581241        31.299       41,699           265,265
B. Transmission Lines
4km of four circuits
Overhead and UG 220kV                                                                      523        2,680         1,896           523          914             6,536
Physical Contingency (10%)                                                                  52          268           190            52           91               653
Subtotal                                                                               575        2,948        2,086           575        1,005             7,189
Price Contingency                                                                          140          919           830           277          574             2,740
Total Transmission Lines                                                               715        3.867        2,916           852        1,579             9,929
C. Technical Assistance
Studies, Research and Training                                               600           800                                                                   1,400
Physical Contingency (5%)                                                     30            40                                                                      70
Subtotal                                                                630            840                                                                   1,470           aMO
Price Contingency                                                            109           205                                                                     314
Total Technical Assistance                                              739        _1.045                                                                   _,784
TOTAL PROJECT                                              856        12,339       33,345        93,852       61,157        32,151       43,278           276.978
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELEC'IRICITY AUThORITY
SHOUBRAH EL-KHEIMA TllERMAL POWER STATION
Summary of Estimated Project Costs
-----------Thousands of LE  h---------                         ---      ousands of Eq. US$-
Local           Foreign              Total                   Local            Foreign             Total
Description
A. Power Station
2/
(2 x 300), base cost                  25,454            180,435            205,889                 35,636            252,609            288,245
Contingencies
Physical                             1,909             15,533             15,442                  2,673             18,946              21,619
Price                                                  71,297             96,630                 35,466             99,816             135,282
Subtotal                       52,696            265,265            317,961                 73,775             371,371            445,146
B. Transmission Lines
(4km, four circuit 2/
220-kV), base cost                     858              6,536              7,394                  1,201              9,150              10,351
Contiigencies
Physical                                86                653                 739                   120                 914              1,034
Price                                1 001              2,740              3,741                  1,401               3,836              5
Subtotal                        1,945               9,929             11,874                  2,722             13,900             16,622
C. Technical Assistance
Studies, Research and 2/
Training, base cost                    700              1,400              2,100                    980               1,960              2,940
Contingencies
Physical                                35                  70                105                    49                  98                147
Price                                  397                314                 711                   556                 440                996
Subtotal                        1,132               1,784              2,916                  1,585              2,498              4.083
TOTAL ESTIMATED                                                                                                                                    0.
PROJECT COST                   55,773            276,978             332,751                 78,082            387,769            465.851
1/  LEI   USE1.40
2/ At early 1978 prices,
June 147Q



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAHI EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEARS                    199                                 1980                                1981                                1982                                1983                                 984                                  985
EOnTIHS  I F'M AM   J J A S  N D JF                                   M A M J J A S 0 N D J F   M           S| J A| S0N DMAMJ I J A S O  N DJFMAM   JA  SONS JFMAMJA
I IrS rUen,R  CoS  DsUl                                                                                                                                             E11                                                              
Etri
O|h, rbol.tIge
lsolat d Phase 8us & Niutrt Equipment - Unlt 2   [  l  l    l  l    l                   l                                  C  n=----- 91--             - ---------
B  ton le nr&Ael,ag  -t ' 2 ttha    nt2l                       l     l     {      l    ll1_..; i   
Wa-, TaterSrtt-tf
Peonqnre lu tenr --U-t 1                                                                                                                                                        - ---
CIII    UmtAtllal2                                                                                                                                                    ----- tome--t 0      =  _=||       f  1||
T.    asisin ln -----uel       _.0  _ ..... -f----7-  .........II]Xll         
Pprng~~~~~~~~~~~~ Urrt 1bEiJDll  Kr 
Auotr_ U__ 2
Fue^ RIReCpdlrgScrnrntr
If-kt.t-- -f     E-P 1
Jult neV.  1979
P-etattte      Wuerro-tr, 2- -1U,2A
S,CotdetnrAlele,,-  U-tr2
Isoate   Pta E lBUS  eune Equipmet-1 Ui 
ST---nSeae.  StEl e &  r,bfaa- UtIt
Statro,r CUIrro. Snste---  C-- DdYr, 2
Sabre & Wnr bond,, a Trayt U..n,n I."  1 4.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .,d B.k- 202
Cable & W,re - Coartotl & TrIpe - UntI 
UntIAael,ev Tanatrrrr                        --l-
UrtrAur,l,ernlrsneto-nrer.Un..t.
J...nStrrU  Tra9to9e



- 55 -                      Annex 3.3
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Tentative Contract List
Thousands of US$ Equivalent (1 LE = US$1.40)
Contract Category                    Total L/C   Total F/C    Total
1.  Demolition                                        4,142           736      4,878
2.  Construction (Civil, Mech. Elec.)                40,080        55,810    95,890
3. Boiler IslandlJ
3a.  Boiler & Accessories                        18,384        93,550
3b.  Boiler Controls                                -           1,470
3c.  High Pressure Piping                           -           7,351
3d.  Water TreatmentY                               -           8,261
3e.  Fuel Handling, Stacks- & Auxiliary
Steam Supply  l                             -           5,969
Sub total                                18,384       116,601   134,985
4. Turbine Island
4a.  Turbine Generators                             -          82,05_
4b.  Condensers & Auxiliaries                       -          11,088
4c.  BFP & Motors                                   -           6,172
4d.  FW Heaters & Deaerators                        -           2,987
4e.  Piping & Insulation5/                          -           9,115
111,417   111,417
5.  Electrical Equipment                                289        23,096    23,385
6.  SF6 Substation                                      518        10,295    10,813
7.  Aux Mechanical Equipment                            -           4,841      4,841
8.  Engineering & Management                          4,152        20,366    24,518
9.  Off-Site Tank Farm                                6,210        13,504    19,714
10.  Spares                                              -          14,705    14,705
11.  Transmission                                      2,722        13,900    16,622
12.  Technical Assistancei                             1,585         2,498      4,083
TOTALS                 78,082       387,769   465,851
j Includes installation & erection of all Boiler Island Items.
g/ Includes building.
2 Includes foundation.
A Supply of equipment & materials only. Installation & erection covered under cons-
truction contract (item no. 2).
/ Includes smiall piping.
j -o be broken up in several smaller contracts as required.
June   1979



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 3.4
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA TH1ERMAL POWER PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
US$ Million
Bank Fiscal Year                      Cumulative  Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                     at the End of the Quarter
1980                            Bank                    IDA
June 30, 1980                          ----                    5.6
1981
September 30, 1980                     ----                    7.6
December 31, 1980                      ----                    8.6
March 31, 1981                         ----                    9.6
June 30, 1981                          ----                  12.6
1982
September 30, 1981                     ----                  14.6
December 31, 1981                      ----                  23.6
March 31, 1982                         ----                   32.6
June 30, 1982                           2.3                  37.0
1983
September 30, 1982                    32.1                   37.0
December 31, 1982                      33.1                   37.0
March 31, 1983                         35.3                   37.0
June 30, 1983                          38.3                   37.0
1984
September 30, 1983                     48.5                  37.0
December 31, 1983                      58.0                   37.0
March 31, 1984                         64.4                   37.0
June 30, 1984                          71.4                   37.0
1985
September 30, 1984                    74.0                   37.0
December 31, 1984                      76.8                  37.0
March 31, 1985                         89.3                   37.0
June 30, 1985                        102.0                    37.0
June 1979



- 57 -                       ANNEX 3.5
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
US$ Million
Bank Fiscal Year                        Cumulative disbursements
and Quarter Ending                      at the end of the quarter
EEC Special Action Fund
1980
June 30, 1980                                      11.1
1981
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980
March 31, 1981
June 30, 1981                                        8,9
1982
September 30, 1981                                  35.0
June,1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SRlOUBRAH EL IDHEIMA THERMAI POWER PROJECT
Income Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 1976-1986
(Thousands of LE)
Actual     /2                                                           Forecast
1976        1977              1976        1979         1960        1961        1962         19U3        1964        1965        19t6
Sales of Electricity - GWh                          9,661       11,488            13,200      15,132      17,116/3    18,927,4    21,018,5    23,241,6    25,6567    28 311         30 3753
Average Revenue per kWh sold (milliemes)             8.83         8.24              8.23        8.23       11.52I       14.96L      18.73       23.41        24.15 2L.               26.9
Operating Revenues
Sales of Electricity                          85,343      94,661            108,636     124,536     197,176     283,526      393,667     544,072     619,592      786,196     890,299
Connection & YMintenance Charges )             7,205          448               365         394         419          450         485         516          556         585         590
Other Operating Revenues         )                         9 182             10,550      12 090      13,674       15,123      16 787      18 566       20 497      22,608      24 552
Total Operating Revenues                 92,548     101 119,551                    137                      299,099                634 8                      09,389     91,
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                          11,087       14,070            19,920      32,570      37,540       41,560      50,800      49,260       57,800      66,020      70,940
Salaries and Wages                            16,831      18,314             31,792      36,561      42,o45      48,352       55,605      63,945       73,537      84,568      97,253
Purchase of Yaterials and Services            13,243      15,942             20,459      33,520      41,289      63,778       82,o56     109,691     121,959      161,178     176,777
Other Operating Expenses                       9,034       6,638              7,627       8,741       9,886      10,924       12,125      13,398       14,778      16,300      17,702
Depreciation                                  16 033      17,408             18 018      25,082      33,573       46,207      60,220      88,946      104,682     130,867     155 094
Total Operating Expenses                 _            72,372                       i36,474     164,333      210,21                  325,240      37,76         6
Operating Income                                   26,320      31,919             21,735         546      46,936       88,278     150,133     237,914      267,889     350,456     397,675
Non-Operating Income (Net)                          (4 134)     (3 001)              467         490          500         500         500          500         500         500          500
Gross Income                                       2           28,918             22,202       1,036      47,436       66,776     150,633     2     4      266,369     350,956    -39U       ,,
Interest
Gross Interest                                18,577       17,061            20,437      24,562      40,638       47,121      56,738      90,026      135,102     184,495     255,411
Less:  Interest Charged to Construction          -            -             (13,920)    (20 051)    (29 960)    (35,160)    (48,019)    (55,467)    (95,975)   (146,751)   (180,200)
Net Interest Expense                     1            17,061             67           5         10,67        11,961       6,719      34,559       39,127      37,744      75,211
Net Income                                          3,609       11,857            15,685      (3,475)     36,758       76,817     141,914     203,855      229,262     313,212      322,964
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service/              3o4,988      316,470           458,674     715,780      942,648   1,397,464   1,877,523   2,656,184   2,974,421   3,876,628   4,418,924
Operating Income as a % Thereof                       8.6         10 0               4.7         0.1          5.0         6.3         8.0         9.0          9.0         9.0         9.0
Net Internal Cash Generation (ignoring
working capital changes) as % of
Construction Requirements                            11          Nil                 2         Nil            4          11          19           24          23          27           24
/1 Assets revalued as of the beginning of 1978 and thereafter as of the end of 1979, 1981, 1983 and 1985 applying an inflation factor of 7.5% p.a.
2 These figures are preliminary unaudited results.
71 Assumes an average tariff increase of 40%, effective January 1, 1986.
30%           January 1, 1981.
7     '   "      "       "      "     " 25%            January 1, 1982.
25%           January 1, 1983.
7                                         3%            January 1, 1984.
15%           January 1, 1985.
79-                                        4%            January 1, 1986.
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1976-1986
(Thousands of LE)
1976        1977        1978          1979           1980          1981          1982           1983          1984          1985           1986
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Service                                451,063      491,115     732,473     1,119,084      1,348,448     2,007,345     2,606,772     3,489,385      3,794,977     5,169,797      5,732,793
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                         (146,365)   (162 872)   (216,877)     (274,332)      (307,905)     (399,426)     (459 646)      (615 419)     (720,101)     (954,824)   (1 log 918)
Net Fixed Assets in Service                      304, Z   7      _       515,596                                        92,873,966                           3,074,876     4,214,973 4t6287 5
Work in Progress                                        109,076     146,894     226,183       293,712        516,431       608,185       723,802      1,129,008     1,968,536     2,549,385      3,621,963
Investments                                                 126       4,126       4,126           -              -                           -              - 
Long-Term Receivables                                      4o8          407         407                          -             -             -                            -              -             -
Current Assets
Cash                                                  (202)      7,558       7,659         8,o0o          5,800        91,670        93,829         17,420        13,851          7,000        14,994
Accounts Receivable                                110,856     124,191     130,000        75,000        91,000         95,000        98,400        136,000       154,900        196,550       222,580
Investments                                        57,640       86,o24     125,251       129 451       246 933        381 378       493,503        692,385         682 518     784,236      1 063t393
Total Current Assets                          568,240    217,773      262,910       2121           2463          381 378       685,732        253           682  i        7            1 3003937
TOTAL ASSETS                                 582,602      697,443   1,009,222     1,350,915     1,900,707      2,784,152     3,556,660     4,848,779      5,894,681     7,752,144      9,545,805
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                             75,617      76,990      76,990         76,990        76,990        76,990        76,990         76,990        76,990         76,990        76,990
Reserves                                            43,481      61,690      62,390       116,805        394,411       799,278     1,061,217      1,430,865     1,618,494      1,782,678     2,177,790
Legal Reserves                                      11,56o       9,932       9,932         9,932          9,932         9,932         9,932          9,932         9,932          9,932         9,932
Reserve for Revaluation of Fixed Assets                -           -        73,509       144,721        144,721       291,186       291,186        582,462       582,462      1,o45,869     1,045,869
Retained Earnings                                    3,609       6,457T1    22,142           4 66492                                274.156        478.1         707.273      1.02n.48s     i a440
134,267     155,069     244,635                                                         V71,3              09 b1713,1 98I  77T   3,935
Long-Term Debt
Total Long-Term Debt                               373,802     398,723     530,117        728,985       908,605     1,142,794     1,443,907      1,896,102     2,481,490      3,337,268     4,383,673
Less:  Debt Due Within One Year                    (42,279)    (29,637)    (37 637)       (50,990)       60,037)      (67,3)         (67295)         527)         66 887)       (78 923)      102 482)
Net Long-Term Debt                            331,523     369,086     492,48         679             5,b                                                  2,414;bO3 I3,a22 135         4;281
Current Liabilities
long-Term Debt Due Within One Year                  42,279      29,637      37,637         50,990        60,037        67,453        67,295         65,927        66,887         78,923       102,482
Accounts Payable & Deferred Liabilities             68,874     136,833     226,308        245,837       300,469       320,500        386,807       360,631       402,820        462,134       489,870
Consumers Deposits                                   5,659       6 818       7 834          8,978        10 )54        11 230         12 465        13 786         15,220        16 788         18 232
Total Current Liabilities                     116,812       7 3280    97I772        305,805                                        370,6                                 6 39   6567          484,927  557 45  6 0 8
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         697,443 1,009,222                       1,350,915      1,900,707     _________     3,556,660                    5              7,752,144     _________
Ratios
Debt/Equity Ratio                                         74/26       72/28       68/32          67/33         57/43         47/53          46/54         42/58          45/55         46/s4          49/51
Current Ratio                                               1.4         1.3         1.0            0.7           0.9           1.4            1.5           1.9            1.8           1.8            2.1
L    After assumed transfer of LE 9,009 to the Ministry of Finance.
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA ThERMAL POWER PROJECT
Sources and Applications of Funds
(Thousands of TE)
1978          1979           1980          1981           1982          1983           1984           1985          1986
Sources of Funds
Tnternal Cash Generation
Gross Incoyme                                                  22,202         1,036         47,436        88,778        150,633        238,414       268,389        350,956        398,175
Depreciation                                                   18,018        25 082         33 573        46,207         60 220         88,946       104,682        130,867        155,094
Total Internal Cash Generation                            40,220        26, l,9 134,985                                          3373,071  401,823                           553,269
Grants
USATD Grants - For Ismailia Plant                                 578         4,950          4,950         4,950          3,865            -             -              _
- For the Project                                   -              208         3,090          8,354         23,534        15,340          8,055        10,860
Ministry of Housing &8 Construction Grant                         122         1,050          1,050         1,050            820            -             -              -              -
Ministry of Finance Grants                                        -          48,207        268 516       390,513        233,720        354,308       179,574        153 324        395,112
Total Grants                                                 700       2     7,6 06 _0                    7        261,939   369,648              7,29         _______        395,112
Borrowings
Foreign Loans - IBRD/IDA                                          -             -            4,860         9,720         26,667         24,725        13,056         17,500
- FIR                                               -              73         1,082          2,924          8,237         5,369          2,819          3,802           -
- EEC                                              -               73         1,082          2,924          8,P37         5,369          2,819         3,802             -
- OPEC                                             -               21           309            835          2,353         1,534            806          1,o86            -
- Others                                        98,000        183,381       223,277        277,823        323,072       482,493        631,815       745,550        904,230
Local Loans                                                    63,031        52,957            -              -             -              -             -          150 925        221,098
Total Borrowings                                          6030                        230,610       25                                          651,315                    1,125,32B
Liquidation of Investments & Long-Term Receivables                     -           4,533            -              -             -              -              -             --
Total Sources                                            201,951       321,571        589,225        L4            841,358      1,216,498     1,212,015      1,568,672      2,073,709
Applications of Funds
Construction Requirements (incl. interest charged to
construction)  -  Project                                         -           1,096         15,363        41,772        118,764         83,156        53,700         69,857            -
-  Other Construction                         211,151        349,459       436,720        517,100        596,280       846 560      1 091 420     1 318 549      1,635,574
Total                                                    211,151       350,555              3       558,872        715,44                   9,7                   1406      1,635,574
Debt Service
Amortization                                                   29,637        37,637         50,990        60,037         67,453         67,295         65,927        66,887         78,923
Interest (excl. Interest Charged to Construction)               6,517         4 511         10 678        11,961          8,719         34,559        39 127         37,744         75 211
Total Debt Service                                        36,154        42,t48 e                     71,998         76,172        854           105,05         1 6            154,134
Jet Change in Working Capital (excl. Long-Term Debt
Due Within One Year)                                          (45,354)       (71,132)       75,474       203,208         50,142        184,928        (38,159)       75,635        284,001
Total Applications                                       201,951       321L571                      834,078        841,358      1 216 498     1,212,015      1,568,672      2,073,709
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by Internal
Cash Generation                                                   1.1            o.6           1.3            1.9           2.8            3.2            3.6           4.6             3.6
June 1979



- 61 -                      Annex 4.4
EGYPT
Egyptian Electricity Authority
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Index of International Inflation, 1955-1990      /1
Yearly
Year       1975=100      1977=-100      197&=100  % Change
1955         38.5          34.5           30.0
1956         39.9          35.8           31.1      3.6
1957         41.3          37.0           32.2      3.6
1958         41.4          37.1           32.2      0.2
1959         41.5          37.2           32.3      0.3
1960         42.4          38.0           33.0      2.2
1961         42.8          38.4           33.3      0.9
1962         42.3           37.9          32.9     -1.2
1963         42.5          38.1           33.1      0.4
1964         43.2          38.7           33.6      1.7
1965         44.5          39.9           34.7      2.9
1966         44.9          40.3           35.0      1.0
1967         45.6          40.9           35.5      1.5
1968         42.8          38.4           33.3     -6.1
1969         43.2          38.7           33.6      1.0
1970         48.0          43.1           37.4     10.9
1971         52.0          46.6           40.5      8.4
1972         57.5          51.6           44.8     10.6
1973         69.3          62.2           54.0     20.6
1974         86.7          77.8           67.5     25.1
1975        100.0          89.7           77.9     15.4
1976        101.7          91.2           79.2      1.7
1977        111.5         100.0           86.8      9.6
1978/2      128.4         115.2          100.0     15.2
1979        139.4         125.0          108.6      8.6
1980        147.8         132.6          115.1      6.0
1981        156.7         140.5          122.0      6.0
1982        166.1         149.0          129.4      6.0
1985        197.8         177.4          154.0      6.0
1990        252.5         226.5          196.7      5.0
/1  Developed countries "CIF" index of US dollar prices
of manufactured exports (total manufactures) to
developing countries.
/2  The figures for 1978 and beyond are estimates.



- 62 -                                ANNEX 4.5
Page 1 of 3
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
A. G;eneral
Formation of Distribution Companies Although the distribution com-
panies have started operations on January 1, 1979, the financial forecasts in
Annexes 4.1 thru 4.3 assume that EEA continues its operations as before since
EEA still exercises management control over the companies. Thus these financial
forecasts reflect the consolidated financial forecasts of EEA and the distribu-
tion companies.
B. Income Statement
1.        Sales of Electricity have been based on information furnished by
EEA and its consultants as subsequently modified in the Bank. The forecasts
assume annual kWh sales growth of 14.9% in 1978, 14.6% in 1979, 13.1% in 1980,
10.6% in 1981, 11.0% in 1982, 10.6% in 1983, 10.4% in 1984, 10.3% in 1985 and
8.6% in 1986. Average revenue per unit sold is based on actuals for 1978
and assumed average tariff increases of 40% effective January 1, 1980, 30% from
January 1, 1981, 25% from January 1, 1982, 25% from January 1, 1983, 3% from
January 1, 1984, 15% from January 1., 1985 and 4% from January 1, 1986.
2.        Connection and Maintenance Charges are assumed to increase by the
same percentages as annual kWh sales of electricity. Maintenance charges
are based on forecast sales to municipalities in kWhs at. 1.5 milliemes
per kWh.
3.        Other Operating Revenues  are assumed to increase by the same per-
centages as annual kWh sales of electricity.
4.        Fuel and Lubricants  are based on estimates of generation from
steam units and combustion turbines using fuel prices and heat rates as
follows:
(1) Fuel Prices:
Diesel fuel - LE 24.60 ton (combustion turbines)
Fuel oil    - LE  7.50 ton (steam turbines)



- 63 -                             ANNEX 4.5
Page Z ot 3
(2) Heat Rates:
Combustion turbines - 15,475 Btu = 1 kWh
Steam turbines      - 12,667 Btu = 1 kWh (1978)
- 12,000 Btu = 1 kWh (1979)
11,000 Btu = 1 kWh (1980 and thereafter)
5.        Salaries and Wages are based on EEA's 1977 salari es and wages
escalated by 15% each year through 1986. No specific increases in staff
are assumed since EEA is overstaffed now and its present staff will be adequate
through 1986.
6.        Purchase of Materials and Services and Other Operating Expenses
are assumed to increase roughly in proportion to the increase in net fixed
assets in service.
7.        Depreciation is computed at an average annual rate of 3%/a of the
gross fixed assets in service at the beginning of the year.
8.        Non-Operating Income (loss) is based on the average of actual non-
operating income and expense for the years 1973 through 1977.
9.        Interest is calculated at the rate of 5%/a on all loans from the
Ministry of Finance. Interest on all existing foreign loans is based on
EEA's actual calculations. All new borrowing from the Ministry of Finance
is assumed to be at an average interest rate of 5%/a and future foreign
borrowing except the identified loans, e.g., IBRD, EIB, etc., for which
the specific rates would apply, is assumed to be at 8% (for presently com-
mitted generating plants) and 8-1/2% (future expansion facilities). Interest
has been added to construction costs at 6.5% in 1978-79, 7.5% in 1980-82
and 8.5% in 1983-86.
B. Balance Sheet
10.       Gross Fixed Assets in Service are valued at historical cost through
1977. They have been revalued as of the beginning of 1978 using the con-
sultants' valuation of LE 601 million for gross fixed assets and LE 199 million
for accumulated depreciation. Thereafter, they have been revalued in alter-
nate years, i.e., as of the end of 1979, 1981, 1983 and 1985 assuming an
average annual price increase of 7.5%.
11.       Inventories  are based on EEA's actuals as of 1977-end and are
estimated to increase roughly in line with the increase in net fixed assets
in service.
12.       Accounts Receivables The forecasts assume receivables to be the
equivalent of three months' sales in 1982 and thereafter.
13.       Reserves  are increased each year by contributions received from
the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction, Ministry of Finance and grants
by USAID.



- 64 -                               ANNEX 4.5
Page 3 of 3
14.       Accounts Payable and Deferred Liabilities are estimated each year
on the basis of annual capital expendlitures and cash operating expenses.
15.       Consumers' Deposits are assumed to increase in line with the increases
in kWh sales of electricity.
D. Sources and Applications of Funds
16.       Contributions from the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction and
Ministry of Finance are based on EEA's 5-Year Plan estimates.
17.       USAID Grants of $127.8 million ($100 million for the Project and the
rest for others) are assumed. Disbursements are based on USAID estimates
furnished to the Bank.
18.       Borrowings  All foreign borrowings are converted to Egyptian pounds
using the parallel market rate of exchange of LE 1 = US$1.44. EEA's planned
borrowing program has been adjusted to meet the needs of the construction
program as revised by the Bank and taking into account EEA's internal cash
generation and expected grants.
19.       Construction Requirements  are based on EEA's estimates as revised
by the Bank and escalated using the following percentages for price contin-
gencies corresponding to expected conditions in Egypt:
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983-1986
Equipment           7       6.5     6        6       6           6
Civil Works       15       15      15       14      13.5        13
20.       Amortization of Long-Term Debt  Ministry of Finance loans are
assumed repayable over 12 years after 3 years' grace. Amortization of otber
existing foreign loans is based on EEA's calculations.
June 1979



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY ATYTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Power Sector Statistical Data 1967-1977
Annual Average
Growth Rate
1967          1968           1969          1970           1971          1972           1973          1974           1975          1976          1977              1967-77
Sales, GWh            4,756          5,235         5,580          5,937         6,218          6,169         6,118          6,909          8,294         9,337        11,429               9.2
Increase, %                                10.1          6.6            6.4            4.7         - .8           - 0.8         12.9            20.0          12.6          22.4
Gross Generation, GWh
Thermal             3,469          3,042         2,457          2,225         2,282          2,225         2,279          2,397          3,009         3,643         4,534
% Total                  64             50            38            32             31            30             31           28              31            31            33
Rydro               1,963          3,002         3,988          4,690         5,041          5,159         5,156          6,122          6,790         8,003         9,037
% Total            _    36              50    _       62            68             69     _      70     _       69           72         _    69       _   69             67
TOTAL               5,432          6,o44         6,445          6,915         7,323          7,384         7,435          8,519          9,799        11,646        13,571               9.6
Increase, %                                11.3          6.6            7.3            5.9           0.8            0.7         14.6            15.0          18.8          16.5
Losses,   GWh           676            809            865           978          1,105         1,215            923         1,624          1,491          1,984        2,141
%                        12.4           13.4          13.4          14.1           15.1          16.5           16.9         19.1            15.2          17.0           15.8
Msximum Demand, 4        872           930            987         1,100          1,160         1,176          1,248         1,433          1,733          1,909        2,238               9.9
Increase, %                                 6.7           6.1          11.4            5.5           1.4            6.1         14.8            20.9          10.2           17.2
System Load Factor, ,         71.1           74.2          74.5          71.8           72.1          71.7           68.o          67.9           64.5          69.6           69.2
Installed Capacity, MZ
Thermal             1,207          1,350         1,410          1,330         1,330          1,330          1,330         1,330          1,330          1,344        1,556
%Total                  50              44            38            35             35            35             35           35              35            35             39
Hydro               1,221          1,730         2,333          2,445          2,445         2,445          2,445         2,445          2,445          2,445        2,445
% Total                  50             56            62            65             65       -    65             65            65             65            65             61
TOTAL               2,428          3,080         3,743          3,775          3,775         3,775          3,775         3,775          3,775          3,789        4,oo0
Plant Factors, %
Thermal                    32.8            25.7          19.9          19.1           19.6          19.1           19.6          20.6           25.8          30.9           33.3
Hydro                       18.4           19.8          19.5          21.9           23.5          24.1           24.1          28.6           31.7          37.4           42.2
Overall                    25.5            22.4          19.7          20.9           22.1          22.3           22.5          25.8           29.6          35.1           38.7
Losses in transmission and distribution, plus station use.
JuDe 1979



bSHOBby-  ELb  MI  IE         FISl,21501532  F651T57
Acu     --edtteas  Sales bY Cooe.ne  leteg,,bsE, 10703-1991
Sadetla  -  abna     1069      2.161    2.991    2, 3-    2.911          6.6       3,s72    3,oIl     3916       1  ll        2        21! 3    7,17    6_4-,      41-12    7,821    t,7e2       3, 391    P,972     b 1'      1,1        -O.-"2  51 763    js.by975                     E LS       S415       1 iG,4b
labtteSl -1soge         t5       641 2s   , L91    3,391    -17         341         5.1is.    6, 774    t, 3e7    31                  .,    01,9'6i   11, yot5   1 3,755   1 3, 711    '., 7.a   it, 'LE>   t7,t9,4   lOl         >1        tl       St vS712   7t, -11       tI lIt731S
507-  7,etil            3343      3,80 t    4,322    0i,1 3V    7, 11      2b.9       6,1.52    9,695   11,303   124717~4 i.124   1 6,2    15,11>  1,4,67    2C 132   2t 797   24,196   ;6, 006   77,931                           20, 7-, 0   3,91.    36 7~. 79i    3.,Ey,7303            4a,7,
Tetal bales            54.3      59.0      13.1      60.3      62.                   64.2       65. 3    C1.0       6                   17 t.      63.'.    -biLl     73,       61,7      61.9      61.3 2    17.6      61.2       61.1       700       75         9o.'          b7 
lesbbeatlsb/Ctanentbnlt   1,491 i,1 1,,    376,)-  2,377     2,796      10. 2       3,168    3, 139     4,14      473       '.37 ~..177,    7,-52         9 0,06    7,770   10,07,   71,59t   11,671   14,113   17,39-4    16,647   10.711    19,  Vt    t5, 56.              -itI  ~ 465.6      ~
Tot,s! bales           23~.1     24.64     23.9 e    70,7      24.14                 24. 2      24.1 i   t,~        _1.      1     t.7 2n         7~,.4    2         2.2 2     37dr. 1   91 .1     32,20     3t2       93.3       33 7       33.6      36.2       34.-4         N47        75. 
Ir-igabti-/sAg-t-laa          625        686       tt>s     o2t       64         1. ~        700        30       7MI       737       773-      010       651       679'      939        04'   1,57       1q96      1,1-0    1,1947       1'~       "v0   t   1tt  L     II 417        -1                       .-o
1  hosetales.1           11.1        3.9       7.0      6.6        7.9                   7.3       4.6       6.1i       ,        3.7,      35          3       3.>       3.t       ' al       I.,       2.7      7.0        1.         2.7      '<7                      42.                    j.1
GeseralBry-se                  4579      920       706       5L2       534       7.6         055       5tE       591         ..t     6-6       14>       63        t71        750       777       336       M,0    ~ tl         917        014       17         80       S'o'         1061)       1t                        -
6STotl1  l..s             7.l        7,13     7.1       2.0       4.7                    -.2       3.3       3.7       22,       3.121.3             7.7       21.6      .16        2.3       .         _1. I     o..       1.3         1.       1.9       1.7         1.7           0.,bJ.,,
0t- -teea  2.SllaLga           202       231       24~    239          273'      0.2         307       333       361       -.3       4.3'.      478       tl'       5730611             (6'       7 3 77,1           543       bO-         97t    1,067    1,127                                             tOp3      1 1,4
~ hta11Sols               3.3       3.4        2.7      2.6       2.4.                   2.3       2.7   .1 s'.,        .1       I.,-      2.1       2.11       ,3       2<t       4.4       .-I       7.7        2.1       I.,        I.,        '.,      to          to0
T70T67 bALES                6,110     6.9og    9.294    3,337   11,627          16.9      23.277    15.132   17.116   1.3,927   21,013   73,314    17,6>6   28,3.1   30,777    73,431   36, 379   91.761   43752   -.6,222              4 .,b73   33,105    717271     ti ,                           t    71717       61  7
...a.                    5 /  23    1,219    382    1,243    1,761                   7,323      2,566     2,286    7,95.4    3,141    3,320    3,499    3,861    4,94-    L,s              ,950    -,347      5,57a    1',03       6,77       7,314                                                                   741 1')59'
003Q7001  MT2 000T7510       7,b41    0,126    0,226   11,036   67,630          11.4      17,720    S7,639E   19,902  21. 291      4,34.   `6,56.   Lb,j17    36,172    34,747   37,49b   L1,32..  16,170   41,927   71,523             ",38-   6t,449                               231 ~    4,7e    2t" 1
Lae-s, '~                13.1      19.3      11.       i.8         MI                  15.8       14.5      14.y      13.7      1380      12.1I     1u.1      11.0      121.7     12.0      12.0      12.8       I.o.     121.        17.2.     -1.1      1.8               11.~    2.        17.        1,            0
-da Ist-t,               71.3      69.9      61.6      68.8      64.7                   78.0     1,1.4      72.1      72.7      717~      71.d      71.1      71.3      71.80      77       r. 'O, "    .s.       .          972. ~ ".tO6-.1                         261     ~     "  -11 6 .7           6.         6.
510717e SIElOM, ff          1,179     1,328    l,o91      I 677     1,739       18.7       7,532    5,631      3,121     3,4739    3,304    4,117    4,t4o    3.0E, 1.                6151     6.736    7,78.    9,733    6,,7417   1227                    ..10        2,6 14 <1-.7                       17,,3.33
11 Sobiddee ,aleabebsol...... .........
J-., 1979






fCC   Pt   -              CACAHCACAdCOCALOCACOZOCCOC  0 0    0  CC- 'o CA'OCOCO'CC'OCAOCO'O'OCd  CD CO CA 10CC)
5            itPPHtt-'PP                                                         CC CD                                                                          p
p4 H    DCDOCDHCDP                                       p H C- b  p o P CD  P
POP            OdNititO    P P MO C CO CD H                                       p to
P-Co       'p  CD         opp4p          0D  a  H  C-H  CD  -             -    H   CD        to  P  P        P  0   0  -  CA  'CD  CA  H        0   -   H  H  p4  p4  --       CD
3CDoi                      HPCO    it  CA  CD  P .                H   H  H  H         H  H  P   P  00    H           I  H  H  H  CD  CD  C)          H
0  000  Co                  CD       H       C)             CO  CD  P  0   CC  PH    0          CA      -  C'          10 PP
.OpiC-'C.  -C  p   P                   CO  a   H  0               CD      p              C'    p  a   it  a                 i-i.  NOOHHOO.                 C'
COHHHCD    C'  P  H                      H      H               it  p  p        CD  CD  P   CO     H  CD           H   H  -'H    P
C)         COCOCOC)   p      CC      P  H   -CCC      H  H  P  Cd                    C'              CD         CA           P   0       -  H   01  CA  P   0    t'    H
P          MOCOMOd   p  P           it     '00  CC-         p4  a            it      0              H  CO  P   P  00PP                  0   I  H  CO  P   P
it               Ci          H       ID        P  p   CO     CD  CD           -       H              -   CD  CD  CD                      P   p0  CD  CD
S
00      H        -   H   CD         CD          0'  Cd                  P   to  CCC  H  P   p   a          P   C'  CD  CD
o                *       p                     p   ii  to     CO  iC         H  C'  0               CD  C-"  pHI-"   it  H                      H  H                   C
0                 01     CD                   p4      H       H               CD  H   to                 P   P   CD  P   p   CD              p                    p
Cd                      ii                            P       Pit                 H                      CD  CD  H  p4  p4  P                                     P    CD
0      CD      CC.H                PCO                    H   CD                                                   DC'
HO       to                                             to      5       CD '0              H  H                   C)  04                                                    I
P0       p
P                                CCC    CO  Cd    PC  '0    '0    '0    '0    '0    '0  0  p0  P  CA    it    CO  Ci  p0  P  CA  it    PC  H  CO  H  CO  CO  CA    p0  CA  p0  Cd  H
DC                               P   Cd  -  i-    p  p   p  p  p   p  CD  p  p            o  DO  CD  0   H  H  P   CO  DO  P   H  H     p   p  H  P   H  CD            0
to to CD H H H H H H H to P CD CC CO CD CD CD p0 C' P H CD CD CD P P 0
H   0   P   -0   C-'  C"  C"  C'  C"  C,'    p4  H      N   H   0   DC
CO                               C       P   CD    P  P   0   0   p   0   P   C   0           0  P       CD      Cd    H     p               P   tt      '
CO C' DC' 0 0
C,                                       P                      5   (0      p0    0'       CCC        p   P   p   p           p   p                       5  5       Ci-
H                                C       H  H                                 C  H                       HCD5CC                  COO             it  H   H  H           P
CD                              CO       H  P                                 CO  CO                                                 CC'         H   C'  CO  CO
HO       P                                P       P                                    P  CC'                      P  p  P  5             r  o           C)  P  004  p
PP      DO                                P                                            04                                 -
itO      CD                               P                                            P
CDCD                                      H                                            H
too                                                                                                                                                                              C
HO                             Co  'ii  MO  CO  CO H  --0   Pt  MO  MO  -H -'C  -0  CO  CO  MO  MO  MO  Co    CC  Co  CO CO                   CO  MO  g   -H  CO  CO  Co  H       HP-H'
COP                           MO  0  0  O  0  0  0    0   0  0  '-CC  0   0  '-CC  0  0  MO  0  0             0  MO  MO  MO                  0  0        MO  MO  MO  C-CC  0     OP;
C-                                                                                                                                                                               hit
SCD
PCi                                                                                                          CCC                        CA
pp          CC                                                                                                 PC          H          MO              H                   CO
1.011 CCC C ChIC  CCCCCCCCCCCCCOCCOCCMOCICMOICCC 0
C.                                                                                                                                                                                              CD
CCOCC 0
H'                         H                             HP-          i-C
0  [0  IC   CCC                                                                                      MO          MO          MO              CO                 MO      'CD
OP                                                                                                             H          H           CC)             MO                 MO      CCdH
CCCIII CCCII CCCCCCCCOCCOCCOCCCCHCICC
IMOVOCIC CCCI  CC CCCCCCCCCCCCOCCOC COMO CCCOCC,C CO
MO         CC       H  MO              MO                 CO
H                          -                                           a   PD
H  'CO  H                                                                                            MO          CO          MO              H                  MO                              pp
6Iy  I?'                                                                                            MO          MO      Pt  MO              MO                 MO
C C  CC'  CCCIII CCCCCCCCCCCCCCOCCC-C H MO CCCOCCCC 0                                                                                                                                   CD
LICO CCC   'CCCI HICI  CCC                                                                MOCOOCO0C000MOCOC
MO                                       CCCI                                                                               C I CMO
H                          H
H  CO  Co      H  CO           CO  H   -       H                  H                        Cl  Odd
COCJ [co    MO Cull  MOCCCSCCCCCC MOMOCOCCOHCHOCCMOCCpCCCCO
H                        MO                                         CO  CO  MO     CO  CO      PC  CC  MO  0       MO                  MO                          flop
CO                                                                                            -          MO                          OP                  H
CO                                             a              --
C C C   C MO MO C C C C  H 0 CCCMOCCCC   MOC)OHMOHCAH                                                        H H H H MO MO                          CO
CH                                                                                 0 MO 0000000 MO 00000CC   CO
1%                                                                                                            MO                          -
CO  C C               H                    MO  CO              g                  MO  CO  Co      CO  CO  CO
MO  MO  C   C   C   C     MO  CA  C   C   C      C    C  C   C   -   Pt  H   CO  CO  CC,  CO  C  Pt  ICC  MO  0  MO  MO                 MO                      H
HCO                                    CO                  H
[COIH ICC  IMOMOC C  CO HOC  HI C,oC C I C OMOQOCOOC  OMOOMOMOOC   'c
H    H    H                        MO MO CO MOMOOCCO              COHOP  H Co MO                  HCO
I H                                                                                                                                                                    CO            MO
Co IOIH                                                                                              H           COO                         H                   H         CO
00                                                                                                                                                          '          H
H  MO  H                                                                                  MO  H  tO  0   H  H  MO            MO  H  H  PC  H
C  101MO                 C--  -              H    MO  CO      CO      Co                  0   CO     MO  04  CO  H       Pt  H       MO  0
MO  MO  C   C   C  MO    MO  H   C   CO  I   a   I   C   C   C  MO                                          0   0   MO
H  MO  CC  '0      -  PC  H            H   C
H                                                                                             H           CO                      H  H
CC     C  MO  CO  MO  MO      CO    H   0   C  H   C  CC)  C   C  C  I  0  MO  0   0  '8  5  8  CC  H  H   CO  H  H  MO
V                                                                                                 H           MO                          H                   -        'a
W                     C-'  H   H      H    MO  CO      CO      CO                  MO  CO  CO  MO  H   CO  H  MO  PC  H  CO  S               H   H   H  H
IS  K             C  CCC MOO   HI   MO   MO  Hi   MO'   01CC                       CO    MOO   2  MO  CC  MO  PC  H  MO  H  MOHH    C  'a                     s
ICC                                   HOOCOC   CMOOMOS-QOCO8'8SHCCHMOE'8
H [0
2 CCMOMOMOMOMOCO MO CO CO - HMO H H CCC MO
CO  MO  H                                                                                             H          MO                           H                  -         C-DC
I                 6  CCC MO  MO  MO  MO  CO    H   HHH         itt'  H             MO  MO  MO  it
000  H MOO                     MOO MO                         '85  SSS  '8 '88 g
H                                                                                             t         MO                          H                   H
1.
JMO    HO                                          CO  CO  H       041100    MO  OH    MO  MO  CO  H  H  PC                  '
HMO    MO                                                               MO  MO  H  CO  0   CO  it  MO  PC      MO  H           H       MO  H   CO  H
CO  COCA    MO  MO  MO  0   H  H  MO   MO  CO                                                                             H                   CO  Co  H   0
CO H H - H H H MO CO H H MO CO CO MO H CO H MO PC H MO C CC CO CO CO
I
[CCC    S MO MO MO MO MO CO  H OSHHHSMOCOW'8UOH'8 COO CO5 CO H H H H H MO
PC ['  it                                                                                        H           MO                         H  H                H
H H''8 MO CO H MO MO H CO 0 H H MO CC MO H
MO  MOO      COHHC'HHCOMO    CO                           -C  5  MO  MO  CO  CO              -   H   CO  CO  MO  Pt  H  MO  S   S     C-' CCC  H   CO
MOICO HMOC'CMOOH-.DMOMO CO CCC H H MO '8 -H MO CO -0 CO - H PC t'MOC-'HMO C 'a --C H



- 68 -                               ANNEX 5,4
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Load Forecasts
Main Forecast           Low Forecast           High Forecast
Year           MW        GWh          MW         GWh          MW         GWh
1978        2,532      15,529        2,500      15,331       2,565      15,727
1979        2,830      17,698        2,763      17,283       2,896      18,113
1980        3,151      19,902        3,051      19,267       3,252     20,537
1981        3,438      21,881        3,305      21,048       3,567      22,714
1982        3,804      24,159        3,637      23,098       3,971     25,220
1983        4,217      26,561        4,011      25,260       4,424      27,862
1984        4,648      29,155        4,400      27,595       4,897      30,715
1985        5,151      32,172        4,853      30,310       5,449     34,034
1986        5,619      34,947        5,275      32,808       5,963     37,087
1987        6,151      37,990        5,756      35,547       6,547     40,434
1988        6,738      41,316        6,285      38,540       7,191     44,093
1989        7,384      44,956        6,868      41,816       7,900     48,097
1990        8,093      48,920        7,508      45,384       8,694      52,547
1991        8,753      52,523        8,104      48,627       9,417      56,510
1992        9,457      56,333        8,739      52,056      10,190     60,701
1993       10,223      60,449        9,430      55,760      11,031      65,229
1994       11,050      64,853       10,176      59,724      11,939      70,073
1995       11,945      69,582       10,983      63,980      12,922      75,275
1996       12,916      74,678       11,859      68,566      13,989     80,881
1997       13,967      80,139       12,806      73,481      15,143      86,888
1998       15,103      85,977       13,828      78,735      16,387      93,310
1999       16,333      92,287       14,940      84,414      17,743    100,251
MW figures   =  maximum demand
GWh figures = net generation
"June 1979



- 69 -                                ANNEX 5.5
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Description of WASP Program
The Wien Automatic System Planning Package (WASP) consists of six inter-
related computer code modules developed to meet the needs of the international
Atomic Agency's Market Survey for Nuclear Power in Developing Countries. It is
designed to find the economically optimized generation expansion programs for an
electric power system within user specified constraints.
The economic criterion used for optimization is the present worth of
the total cost stream for the period simulated, in this study the period from
1978 through 1999. This cost stream includes a salvage value credit for the
remaining life of plants still in service at the end of the study period.
WASP uses a probabilistic estimation of reliability and production costs
and the dynamic programming method of optimization. System load data are provided
in the form of system peak and mathematical representation of the load duration
for up to 12 periods per year.
Capital costs are inputted in the form of total cost of the time the
plant is commissioned, including interest during construction. The program then
deducts the interest during construction and spreads the remaining construction
costs over the construction period in accordance with a predetermined schedule
of expenditures.
Using the probabilistic reliability computations and the inputted
reliability requirement, expansion ptograms using all combinations of available
alternative generator installations are determined within the constraint of
specified maximum and minimum reliability. Each expansion program is then costed,
using the probabilistic production cost program and the capital cost procedure
and the total cash flow stream determined. This cost stream is converted to its
present worth using an inputted discount rate and the expansion programs are
optimized by a dynamic programming technique and ranked in the order of least
present worth of the total cost stream.   Data for a specified number of expansion
programs are then outputted in accordance with that ranking.
The program can also be used to determine the present worth of the
annual cost stream, using the same computation of procedure except omitting the
selection of alternative expansion programs, by suitable input controls.
June 1979



- 70 -                                 ANNEX 5.6
Page 1 of 4
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Comparison of Alternatives
Technical and Economic Assumptions
1. Economic Life of Facilities
Hydropower Plant                                     50 years
Conventional Steam Generating Plant                  30 years
Nuclear Generating Plant                             30 years
Combustion Turbine                                   20 years
Transmission                                         40 years
Distribution                                         30 years
2. Generating Reserve
20% of System Peak Demand.
3. Specific Fuel Consumption
Conventional Steam Turbine                           11,000 Btu/kWh
Combustion Turbine                                   15,475 Btu/kWh
4. Capital Costs
Combustion Turbine Station (4x75 MW) LE 236/kw (incl. i.d.c.).
5. Fuel Costs
Internal prices of petroleum products in Egypt, which are controlled
by the Government, are below world price levels. For the economic analysis,
however, the relevant costs are the opportunity costs i.e. the export value, since
the alternative to internal use is export. Accordingly, the economic analysis
was based on the f.o.b. values of the products at the time of appraisal, which
are as follows:
Mazout                US$75   (LE 54)/ton
Gas Oil               US$120  (LE 86)/ton
Kerosene              US$130  (LE 93)/ton
The delivery costs for mazout to the possible steam station site at Suez
were taken as negligible, since the fuel would be supplied from the Suez refinery
through an existing pipeline.



- 71 -                                ANNEX 5.6
Page 2 of 4
For the Ain Soukhna site the estimated delivery cost for mazout was
taken as US$0.50/ton and for Shoubrah El Kheima as US$2/ton, based on information
supplied by the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation.
This resulted in the following fuel costs per kWh generated:
Steam Station (the Project)
At Suez                                    15.5 milliemes/kWh
At Ain Soukhna                             15.6 milliemes/kWh
At Shoubrah El Kheima                      15.9 milliemes/kWh
Combustion Turbine                              33.0 milliemes/kWh
For the nuclear power stations included in the long-term development
program the following fuel costs were adopted by the consultants:
LE/million Btu
600-MW Unit                        0.342
900-MW Unit                        0.315
6. Operation and Maintenance Costs
Steam Generating Plant                     1.86 milliemes/kWh
Transmission                               1.5% of capital costs
Distribution                               2% of capital costs
7. Foreign Exchange
IE 1   =  US$1.40
8. Opportunity Cost of Capital
10%
9. Unskilled Labor
Since there is heavy unemployment and underemployment of unskilled
labor in Egypt, this was valued at 50% of its money wages for the economic analysis.
Unskilled labor was assumed to represent the following proportions of construc-
tion costs:
Steam Generating Plant                    30% of local costs
Transmission                              15% of total costs
Distribution                              25% of total costs



EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRUJI EL KHEIMA THERMAL P(WER PROJECT
Costs of Alternative Development Progr-ms
(LE Million)
_-- --- -----_---------- ----- Program Includig Project ---------------------------------                 ------ Alternative Program  (475      Combustion Turbines Instead of First 300-W Steam  Unit)---
Capital Costs                     Operating Coots                       Total Costs                       Capital Costs                     Operating Costs                         Total Costs
Year      Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total        total     Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign      Total        Loal      Foreign      Total
1979       0.1         o.8          0.9           -          -           -       0.1          o.8         0.9           -            -          -           -           -
1980       1.2        10.2         11.4           -          -           -       1.2         10.2       1i.4          0.1         0.8         0.9           -           -           -         0.1         o.8         0.9
1981       3.5        29.4         32.9          -           -           -       3.5         29.4        32.9         1.2         9.9        1L.i           -           -                     1.2         9.9        10.1
1982       9.4        78.7         88.1           -          -           -       9.4         78.7        88.1         3.0        25.4        28.4                 -           -               3.0        25.4        28.4
1983       8.3        69,1         77.4           -          -           -       8.3         69.1        77.4        10.4        88.2        98.6           -           -                     1o.4       88.2        98.6
1984       4.5        37.8         42.3           -          -           -       4.5         37.8        42.3         9.9        84.4        94.3           -           -           -         9.9        84.4        94.3
1985       4.2        35.0         39.2      492.2           -       452.2     456.4         35.0       491.4         2.5        21.1        23.6       452.4                  452.4        454.9        21.1       476.o
1986       1.3        to.6         11.9      445.2           -       445.2     446.5         10.6       457.1         3.2        26.5        29.7       460.o           -      46o.o        463.2        26.5       489.7
1987          -          -            -      651.8           -       651.8     651.8            -       651.8           -            -          -       663.0           -      663.0        663.0            -      663.0
1988          -                              629.6        14.4       644.o     629.6         i4.4       644.o           -            -          -       646.7        14.4      661.1        646.7        14.4       66i.1
1989          -                              621.4        28.7       650.1     621.4         28.7       650.1           -                               633.3        28.7      662.0        633.3        28.7       662.0
1990         -           -            -      620.2        43.1       663.3     620.2         43.1       663.3                                           634.1        43.1      677.2        634.1        43.1       677.2
1991                                         621.8        57.4       679.2     621.8         57.4       679.2           -                               633.1        57.4      690.5        633.1        57.4       690.5
1992         -           -            -      621.8        71.8       695.6     623.8         71.8       695.6           -            -          -       636.1        71.7       707.8       636.1         71.7      707.8
1993         -           -            -      632.2        86.i       718.3     632.2         86.i       718.3                                           642.9        86.i       729.0       642.9        86.1       729.0
1994         -                               634.3       103.6       739.9     634.3        103.6       739.9                                           649.1       103.2      752.3        649.1       103.2       752.3
1995                     -            -      625.0       122.1       747.1     625.0        122.1       747.1                                           640.7       121.6       762.3       64o.7       121.6       762.3
1996         -                               620.5       140.2       760.7     620.5        i4o.2       760.7                                           634.8       139.6      774.4         634.8      139.6       774.4
1997          -          -            -      622.7       158.8       781.5     622.7        158.8       781.5                                           640.3       158.2       798.5        640.3       158.2      798.5
1998         -           -                   572.1       178.9       751.0     572.1        178.9       751.0           -            -           -      589.1       178.4       767.5        589.1      178.4       767.5
1999     -22.1 / -184.5          -206.6      368.6       215.0       583.6     346,5         30.5       377.0       -17.8       -149.4     -167.2       385.8       214.4       600.2        368.o        65s0      433.0
I/ Reaidual plant value.



ANNEX 5.6
-  73  -                                   Page 4 of 4
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Comparision of Alternatives
Sensitivity Tests
Equalizing Discount Rate
(%)
Base Case                                                    17.4
Capital Costs 20% Higher                                     15.7
Capital Costs 20% Lower                                      19.5
Fuel Costs 20% Higher                                        19.1
Fuel Costs 20% Lower                                         15.4
High Load Forecast                                           18.0
Low Load Forecast                                            16.7
Higher Exchange Rate (LE 1 = US$1.75)                        19.2
Lower Exchange Rate (LE 1   US$1.05)                         15.1
June 1979



-  74  -                                                               KAMS  5.7
r 3YPT
IGYPTO    I ECTRICITY AUTHORITY
7HOUBlM; EL KE!Mk T11R4  POWER P?ROJWT
CaV  iB   .r Sit.,
'979        1980        1981         1982        1983         1984        1985         1986        1987-2015       c Tota1 Cot
1. 00OU10AH 31 O1MA0
Crearance C s                        L,606         ,370       1,200          771         47i         649            _                           6,067
Access Road                                       214                                     -            -           -                                          214
Fuel Delivery                           _           -            _         357       2,857        2,500            -                                       5,714
Fe-er Prassisoa                        _            -          651       3,33        2      36      8 651     1.137           _                 -          8,133
Subtotal                           -       1,820        2,021       1,891        5,988       3,622       1,76             _                          20,128
Re-aidee of Clan-                    941       9,834       32,111      a8,225       75,96       80,151       39,290      12,18                -         297,867
Total Capital Costs              981      11,654       34,132      93,116      81,i16       43,774      41,076       12,118                -        317,995
Dp-raioo ealeteaac Csts
Fuel I                                              -            -           -            -           -      50,085      100,170          100,170
Ce.e-atioa C  4 M                                                _           _            _           _        5,850      11,700           11,700
LrensDissic  S & M                                  -            -           -            -           -         105          122              122
Tr- ais,ioa (nosses                                      _                                                    5,409       j%1,
Total O d M Costs                             - _                                   -Z         -_       61,449      122,810          122,812
70TAL COETS                      349      11,654       34,032      93,116      Bl,18       43,774     102,525      134,928          IP2,810
2. SUIT
Calltal Costs
Circlaltiao Wster-                     -           -            -           -          964           _          107           _                _          1,071
2.0. Intate std   tbagd                 -_--                             1,428          707           _          214           -                -          2,349
Mske-op snd Potable Water -                         _            -           _        1,735           '          192           _                           1,927
Soils acs FoLsdatio-s                   _                      385                                                4 _  42      -                             4 427
rcer  9rssslso                          -                      321       L,680        2,691                      921           -                _          9,213
Co-otructn  ator Fre-ia-                -         642        1,414      1c80o         1,157         707          707           -                -          6,427
Coastrectin labor H-osing               _         357          r-4           -            -                        -           -                _           1,C71
Operator  oosico                                  -          __            -            214       3,214        3,oOD O                                     6,428
Subtotal                           -         999        3,434       7,909        7,468       3,921       5,183                                       2 _  28,913
Ressinder of Plant                    948       9,834       32,11       b8,225       75.96       40,152       39,290      12,118               _         097,867
Total Crapitl Costs              941      10,831      35,545       96,133      82,664       44,073      44,473       12,118                -        326,786
Operallag aol Oalotenance Costs
Fael                                    -           -            -           -            -           -      48,825       97.650            7,650
Geterattos S 1& M                                    -           -           -            -           -       2,850       11,700           11,700
sraosmistsioa O & 8                     -                        _           _           _            _ -       0124         138              138
Trsalsioto  Lose-s                      -           -            -           -            -           -       7,211       14,422           14,422
Opera t5n  Lsbo- FrPal.o                _                        _           _                                  193          193              193
Focl for oesaIiests                     -            -           _           -            _           _          257         257              257
Ch-ecdcls for  eselipation              -                  -           -                  - _                     25          25               25
otal 2   M Costs                  _    __-                              -_-                     -       62,88       124,335         124,385
TO5A1 C0373                      941      10,833      35,545       36,133      82,664       44,073     io6,95       136,503         124,385
AIN SCU7EiA
Capital Cust,
Access Roal                           714       1,428                                                 -                  -                                 2,142
Crual0Wate                        -            -           --                     964           -          107                                       I  109
C.. _ratske and Diecherhg               _            _           _       1,428          300                      214                            -           21°42
Poke-op oni Fotoble Wrter               -           _            _           _        2,021           _          235                                       2 -  2,356
Faul Delive-y                           -            -           -          89          '1S         625            -           -                -          1,428
Soils ad Fcu=datio-s                                           385           -            -           -           42                                          4 -  127
Po-ec fraasolseiuo                      -            -         72e       3,856        2,720         535          728           -                _          8,567
Copstr-ction Lorse Freesia              -         857        1,885       2,400        1,542         942          942           _                _           8 568
Constrot-ti-c  Lbor R-ia g              -         71L        1,428           _-                                    - _                          -          2 142
operatisg Labr Hosi                                                                     57        5357         5,_                                        10_711
Subatotl                         714       2,999        4,426       7,773       8,918        7,459       7,268            _                -         39,557
oe-lsode- or Plant                    941       9,834       32,111      98,25        75,96         ,152      39,29Q                             -        297,867
Totsl Capital Casts            1,655       2,833       36,537      95,998      A6,114       47,611      46,558       12,118                -        337,424
O-erata.g a-d Yhitoenaaa. Ccsts
Fuol                                    -                        _-          -            -           -       9,140       98,280          98.280
Dsoertboo 018 & M                                   -                                     - _l 5,85o                      11,709           11,712°9
Trtmaie08                                                                                                118         125              129
Srats,sbastue loo,as                    - . - .                                                               7,115       i4,231          14,231
Op-ratiag Lalce PFe-iao                             _            -           -            _           _         643          6.3              643
Fool for Deaalna-tiue                   -            -           -           -            .           -          321         321              321
Chebi-als for 4essliaition                                                                            -           32          32               32
Totsl 0 0 M Costa                                                                                       3 -  -   _  _  3,29  125,336  125,336
TOAL C005TS                   1,655      12,833      36,537       95,358      68,114       47,611     129,7'       137,454         125,336
Present Worths  tt 1/1/75
Discouart Fate
lot           is
Sloubeah El LOheiDs           328,311        455,761
love                          791,109        463,775
Aia Souk4na                   802,629        471,872
Jua. 1979



- 75 -                      ANNEX 5.8
Page 1 of 7
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.        The specific technical and economic assumptions used for the
calculations, where they differ from those used for the least-cost analysis
(Annex 5.6), are summarized below.
A. Costs
2.        The basic cost data for the Shoubrah station (3x300 MW),plus asso-
ciated transmission and distribution facilities were taken from Annex 1.4.
The transmission component includes, in addition to the specific transmission
facilities forming part of the Project, the time slice of EEA's transmission
investment program related to Shoubrah, i.e. the items shown in Annex 1.4
as "1984 and 1985 projects", plus part of 1986. Similarly, the parts of
EEA's distribution investment program associated with Shoubrah's output
were identified as the 1984 and 1985 projects, and part of the 1986 projects,
shown in Annex 1.4, including the rural electrification program for 1984 and
1985.
3.        For calculating the rate of return the capital costs were adjusted
by shadow pricing the unskilled labor components at half the financial cost.
The unskilled labor components were assumed to represent the following propor-
tions of the capital costs:
Shoubrah El Kheima Station       30% of local currency costs
Transmission                     15% of total costs
Distribution                     25% of total costs
Fuel Costs
4.        For the economic calculation it was necessary to use the opportunity
costs of fuels, based on export values, rather than the current domestic prices,
as set by the Government. These are shown below, together with the domestic
prices for comparison (gas oil and kerosene are included, since Shoubrah's
benefits include reduced consumption of these fuels through substitution of
Shoubrah output):



- 76 -                        ANNEX 5.8
Page 2 of 7
Milliemes/kWh
LE/ton                          Generated (Net)
Mazout   -  Opportunity Cost       55                                  15.9 /1
-  Domestic Price          7.50                               2.2 /1
Gas Oil  -  Opportunity Cost       86         Combustion Turbine       33.0
Diesel Set              21.9
-  Domestic Price        24.60      Combustion Turbine        9.5
Diesel Set               6.3
Kerosene -  Opportunity Cost       93
-  Domestic Price        32.30
/1   Shoubrah El Kheima.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
5.        The following 0 & M costs were assumed:
Generation                 1.857 milliemes/kWh
Transmission               1.5% of capital costs
Distribution              2% of capital costs
Project Supply
6.        It was assumed that the Shoubrah El Kheima station would operate
at an average load factor of 80% in the period 1986-1999, generating 6,300 GWh
p.a. (for 1985, the first year of operation, an output of 3,150 GWh was
assumed).
B. Benefits
Incremental Electricity Sales
7.        The main benefits are the incremental supplies of electricity to
consumers attributable to Shoubrah. The forecast total sales from 1985 (when
the Project comes into operation) and subsequent years are shown in Annex
5.2, together with the corresponding generation required. From this and Annex
1.3, which shows the available generation from the EEA system up to 1986, it
is possible to derive the cumulative annual incremental sales and generation
to be met by Shoubrah, and these total figures were then allocated prorata by
consumer categories (from Annex 5.2) as follows:



ANNEX 5.8
- 77 -                          Page 3 of 7
Incremental Electricity Sales and Generation
by Consumer Categories
- :==--   --------  GWh ----------…-------------
1985                1986               1987-1999
Required            Required             Required
Sales  Generation  Sales  Generation  Sales  Generation
Industry (General)          522       593       985    1,119       1,065    1,210
Industry (Large)          1,029    1,169      1,919    2,181       2,050    2,330
Residential/Commercial    986    1,120         1,960    2,227      2,174    2,470
Irrigation/Agriculture       42        48        87        99         96       109
General Purpose              27        31         52       59         56        64
Government Buildings         49        56         94      107        103       117
Total               2,655    3,017       5,097    5,792      5,544    6,300
The incremental revenues attributable to the Shoubrah sales were calculated
using the average prices derived from the financial projections (Annex 4.1).
Fuel Savings
8.        Part of the output from Shoubrah will result in savings in fuel costs
to the economy through the substitution of electricity from the grid for other,
more costly energy sources. The consumer categories affected are Residential/
Commercial, Industry (General) and Irrigation/Agriculture. The fuel savings
were derived as follows:
(a) Residential/Commercial. The load forecast includes projections
of the number of consumers in this category, from which the new
customers to be supplied as a result of the Shoubrah were
derived, as shown below:
1985    1986    1987-99
New Residential/Commercial
Customers (cumulative), '000          482     959      1,044
Part of the supply to these consumers will be for lighting, for
which kerosene lamps would otherwise be used. It was conserva-
tively estimated that kerosene consumption for lighting would
be 1/2-liter per consumer per day, or 15 liters/month, and that
the corresponding electricity consumption would be 15 kWh/month.
The comparative annual fuel costs, and resulting savings, per
customer are as follows:



- 78 -                     ANNEX 5.8
Page 4 of 7
Cost, LE
Kerosene                              13.3
Electricity                            2.9
Savings                         10.4
(b) Industry General. No data are available on the extent of auto-
generation in this category, which covers both medium and small
industry, nor on the type of autogeneration, i.e. diesel or
steam. In the absence of precise data, it has been assumed
that, if supply were not available from the grid as a result
of Shoubrah,one third of the required generation would come
from industry's own diesel sets at a higher fuel cost. The
comparative figures are as follows (based on the opportunity
costs of fuel):
Fuel Cost
Milliemes/kWh
Supply from Shoubrah                       15.9
Autogeneration (Diesel)                    21.9
Savings                                6.0
(c) Irrigation/Agriculture. Supply from the grid attributable to
Shoubrah would replace diesel pumping, for which the same
savings in fuel cost are assumed as in the previous case.
9.        In addition to the above, there would also be fuel savings through
the substitution of generation from Shoubrah in the first two years of its
operation for generation from plant with higher incremental fuel costs. These
savings will occur in the years 1985 and 1986,when the full output of Shoubrah
is not required to meet incremental electricity consumption, but when economic
dispatching will cause it to be operated up to its full availability, displa-
cing output from higher cost combustion turbines. This replacement generation
was derived as follows:
1985      1986       1987
Incremental EEA Sales, GWh            2,655      5,097      7,775
Required Incremental
Generation, GWH                     3,017      5,792     8,835
Project Capability, GWh               3,150      6,300      6,300
Replacement Generation, GWh             133        508        -
The resulting savings were valued at the difference between the fuel cost of
generation by combustion turbines and by Shoubrah (i.e. 33 milliemes/kWh
less 15.9 milliemes/kWh).



- 79 -                      ANNEX 5.8
Page 5 of 7
Other Benefits
10.       Other benefits comprise the following items:
(a) a stamp tax of 5 milliemes/kWh paid by all residential
consumers. For this purpose residential consumption
was estimated to comprise 75% of sales in the residential/
commercial category;
1/
(b)  a radio receiver feeof 2 milliemes/kWh by residential
consumers in Cairo and Alexandria, and of 1 millieme/kWh
by consumers outside Cairo and Alexandria, on the first
45 kWh/month. Since it was not possible to identify
the Cairo/Alexandria and other residential consumers
separately, an average value of 1.5 milliemes/kWh was
assumed;
(c) connection charges payable by new residential consumers.
These range from LE 4 to LE 24, and an average value of
LE 10 was assumed. The new customers to be served by
the Project were estimated at 362,000 in 1985, 357,000
in 1986 and 64,000 in 1987; and
(d) an annual contract renewal fee of LE 0.3 payable by
residential consumers.
Rate of Return
11.       The resulting streams of costs and benefits are shown in the attached
table. The rate of return was found to be 7.8%. This result was tested for
sensitivity to variations in capital costs, fuel costs, load growth and value
of foreign exchange. The results are set out in the attached table.
1/ Radio receiver fees are identified as such to the consumer, but
included as a benefit since they apply to electric power users.






3 i1-TAN EPLECTRICIT ABH)RITI'
SFOER LTF EL ? F EIlA TTE349A7 POWEI L RUj,CT
0tea  Benefite and Rate of Return
(LE,' )0'
--------------------____--     ____- ---  C    O    S  -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- -------------                                           -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---                                                             ---~---------------     -  E    N    E    F    I  ----------------------__    _ 
Capittl                                                            Fue1                        T sn        LiSstr                           T t,i1 C,.ts                                              u     ais
Paaar StatiBa            TPransissioe              Distriiution              Ttal lalpital C,Bte                         be,traiomr saion             turBot        Ttal                                           Oaes        Ind str.      Reid.'   Irrig.          Pagl- oLan.2                   TI-el
YesF      l_r    FRareign          lace]         -reign      L-eL     FeB                          relg       Coral       Letel         Lo-l eoi                 Io           IB st      Ltutu1      C-reign      Total       Ae-ene         en.       taers    Ire:.            -eter:  i-       oth-"        e-fltt
1979         141        F75            -            _                        _          141          775        916             -           _              _            -          -          141         77         "Jr,           -           -            -          -                -
1980      1,242      10,193            -            -            -           -       1,242       10,193      f1,h3l                                                                        1,242       1B7        11,435           _            _            _          _                _
1981      3,521    29,339             27          5R75           -           -       3.948       29,?14      33,'EB             -           _              _                       _        3,R3      2,??:4      33.1(0            -            -            -         _                _
1982      9,181      76,745        7,0E5      ic,n48                   -            16,446      R9093   1'6,1'9                 -           -              -            -          -      1.,44.      (afro   1B6,1BR               -            -           -                           -E
1983      8,R26      E9,099       16.553      21,446        93,512      6,937       58,331       97,475   1R,1C6                -           -              -            -          -       6,361      97,47      lS5,hOt;           -            -           -          -                -
1984      4,536      37,787       12,814       19,733      87,070      25,007       On 4o,1B     7d,526   1R2,1703              -           -                    -                 _,,                 8,        ld'an              -            -           -1
1985      4,231      34,997        3,R59        7,17C     59,6 ;o _,321    6 C,3                 '3, 97   126,337        5R,            oo5        ;,     00 1                 0,17C      127,LS.43 s  u,4  L t7,1< S   :  7l,719f    'O 1%               ,7-74                                    7,R1'         00
1986      1,274      11,619          314          357       8,523       2,921       12,11'       13,97       24, 108      !0.1 47'                                   P .7, l,119  l,Fo  7.078  1:3 253  13,380    142,Ls6    147,8eR        .,u.         ,'1C4        III           B 4, 0
1987           -           -            -           -            -           -            -            -           -    ' 7,1         1' 70,          _.-19        4,659       7,-a                _ 3: l'R                  I,),9,1 9    162,1964 72.07  :7.0nSO     04                 -         1,0-4      104  .;L
1988-19?8          -          _            _                         _ -                                               _     11-,-7:S 1,712                            4,1          017,7978  116,'4            -   1.1'    163LCB              2,422      12.50          fs4                _         o,         13.4-
1999    -22,192  -184,450        -32,595      -44,123-  -112,5lB      -31,-24- 166,782    -260,397  -427,118             100,170    .1 ,1             _.olO.       . lOt    17,978        4 83,633  -260,327  -31-/.o30 11L.47              1-21        12,918        s.,                -         .3 * 0 ' -t'3:
1/ Residual amiss,  -emladn econami  life of 32 ye-a-  or p-ar satinn, Lo years f-r trase-a-n-   2'Joime-t
- ad 30 yeses for distributi-n eqLiprett.
"Other" bseefite  ao=peiae pr-eeeds of stamp ta    -n residentia_ eleotri itleaies, eaBto  re- mi.e. fees
eeasetit-aelcegea  tar eaLt h-gs-      er s-ad an-l 1                                   -Bnt eis reneal leee  esidentisl/cumerosl  ctcuer






- 81 -                    ANNEX 5.8
Page 7 of 7
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Costs, Benefits and Rate of Return
Sensitivity Tests
Rate of Return
(%)
Base Case                                                     7.8
Capital Costs 10% Higher                                      7.0
Capital Costs 10% Lower                                       8.8
Fuel Costs 10% Higher                                         6.6
Fuel Costs 10% Lower                                          9.0
High Load Forecast                                            7.9
Low Load Forecast                                             7.6
Higher Exchange Rate (LE 1 = US$1.75)                         8.8
Lower Exchange Rate (LE 1 = US$1.05)                          6.1
Electricity Sales Revenue 10% Higher                         10.0
Electricity Sales Revenue 10% Lower                           5.5
June    1979



- 82 -                               ANNEX 6.0
EGYPT
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
Al - Joint Egypt/United States Report on Egypt/United States Cooperative
Energy Assessment, Volume I, Executive Summary, Main Report and
Appendices, December 1978.
A2 - Tariff Study Provisional Report, SOFRELEC - Paris, January 1979.
A3 - Status of Electricity Service to the Urban Poor, Draft Report,
Professor Goran Bergendahl, January 31, 1979.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl - Feasibility Study, 900-MW Power Generating Station, Phase I Report,
August 1978.
B2 - Feasibility Study, Shoubrah El Kheima 900-MW Power Generating Station,
Phase II Report, February 1979, with two Appendices:
Appendix I    -  Environmental Assessment
Appendix II - Computer Printouts.
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl - Development of Power Sector Investment Plan 1978-1986.
C2 - Terms of Reference, Architect-Engineer Services for 600-MW Electric
Power Plant, Scope of Work and Instruction or Preparation and
Submittal of Technical Proposal, Egyptian Electricity Authority,
February 1979.



IBRD 14221R
GZEECE(?,  1T UR KKEY                                                                                                                                              APRIL 1979
Mdrnoeoo  LTI F   RAOI                                                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ARAB                  ZO!N                    EGYPTIAN  ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
LIBY A  1REPUBLI           SAUDI
L   EGYPT   s ARABIA                               SHOUBRAH  EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
W-.  _--. =Y  ,ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
CHAD
gJ S U D Aq N   (  9Y;MENf                         0l           100           200          3g0
x   S       N   LETHIOPIJDA\N                                                               KILOMETERS
2S  30-  34^  /   * l   Proposed Thertol Power Prolect
-                               -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~132 kV Tros-,s orL, hes
-  /-1_ 220 kV Tromsmission L nes
9ARS  MATRQUR4 
ALEXANO A    KAPR EL DAMIETT       PORT                             t ~        132 kV Substotiotrs
_i           0  220 kV Svbstoi.os
r DAMANHU R f AL MANSRAEL ARISH                           '            500kV S,bstot.ons
}                            ~~~~~~~~EL ALAMEIN       0t          /TANTA  oZ>AZIO                           I               *   Thermsol Plorrss, Roistina
~~                                  )   5)~~MA          Hydro Plo-ts, Eioist~g
-         -_     ,                SHIBINEL K                             A                                  Copitol Cities
30>)                                                                                                      S / -EZ CITY               *
?                , ' ~~~o/ao,,r     j                                       sCAl RO         n  ECIY                      \        o  Cinles ond Towns
D,epress,oo ,J                                                                                          \          Internotion,l Airports
B ,_  - io)  '   r ni <  4   11s   ( N  1  \   \,           / ?    oA D om es hic  A irports
~~~--1  I                                                                                   '''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Riv-r
K  G--~~~~~~~~~~~-xj                  FATOUM ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wad,s
<t SIWA-                                                                 BE/      / YOUB                )                            Reeros o-d Do-
>   I   C- 7 ~-)//                                  SUF7lEF    / N        >  \ll                  fy            Interat,onal Boundor es
t !                                                      j,(M~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGHAG/OA  /                 
cf1                                                             SAMALT J- S___             _-
BAHAR A              EL MINYA                                         i               S  A   U   D  I
OASIS                MALLAWI
l                                                                  E    Co 9,                           XA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR A B I A
if Th/. -d-p h be f h. Ped b. thheM- tsd l,Mch.d Th. desX-m.li-on -sd andthe     ASSYOUT                 HURGIHAs     
* Ibiudns so ymo hap    doo been o,spao bn t h pn   h Works  dank'  andf eo/ova fo tOe ,o eo,nc
30-            \   iASMANT  ASSYOUT             A                                \
M  e di t a r e   b f e an    Sea              INSET   A                        SOHAG        I
06 4 t a R _   >                         0      >   \                   - 26'                             E        SA AG                                            26'-
AF @ \EL DAWAR                                     - Port Soid              NAG HAMMADI          LUXOR
*=hALEX        '     ik      IAIYHA                                         o  KHARGA I                                 /I        \                             ALH  AL
tX _ tanhur x Al                                                   \                            ESNA                - .  \
AM   GAZZEL                 NA    MOTasura                   I                                          _    FERPO     SL  CON   FACTORY
6EL GAZZEL                                   B~~~~~ELLA/AIADC
EdB EL MATAMRE         0 Oz                     8         lTsF\,7
Tonto          QZag        \      mailia
<0,           \  >           /EL UACrAZ       S  01                                          nT    R          ,E  O
/5       IAT Ef1                                                                      ASWVAN  DAM
I\ KAS NORTH                                            E
-OUBRAH EL KHEIMA                                                 +   t O
1-AIRO EC/EST  4;  ffi PO\vER PROJECT5
ES         A~~IRO            SuzC                                                  oo ory
claRA        10 RAMAmAN
;      tARAM         CIT    -SE                                  o                                                         >
Qlrkr 1E ST                                                          ABU SIMBEL
Qarun                    n- T
7 11 4/ E~~BB N X<-S<   _rA2°
Fayoumo
Fayoum°  S \   \\\                           S           UX-  JD    A   N
I  /                   ~~~~~~A Nl SO d              ?                         






IBRD 14222R
3 GT URKEy40°                                                                                                                      APRIL 1979
a RAG)  IRAN                    ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
LIBYA3 okA j                              EGYPTIAN  ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
-ARAB REP.                                                                                                  POWER D    M
.~-~O EGYP   ARABIA                            SHOUBRAH EL KHEIMA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
CHADt
2400'     SUDAN   EN          .
/                  0   Proposed Power Plant
- XMu i/                                     o    e  srcS\                  \°/l/hh dm iMit tHaIfa  Propose  220kV
Tronumision Lines
~~~~~                                              - ~~~~~~~~~~Urban Areas
hz Aoeito~                                                                                         Primary Highways
-All Other Roads
~-    Cainals
*~~~        Bigom                  Bahtim                  International
Boundaries
Tanach and                    ~-                           >-OiBRAH   KHEIM.
Noziet el Zoumour                                               ]  HERMAL PODWER PROJECT
I                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z. el Dirtirdochi
fr e                   irik                                        W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h. oo,ia,  used pOnd tyht
do no-,ply, on tt, part of the
Wrld eank and to af,iliot-an
any tmtoty or any ond-r- tIo
KILOMETERS         Bochtil                                                                                                  r-cpten- of O-h b-udon-



