CONFORMED COPY
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 20 EGT
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated September 6, 1979


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 20 EGT
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 1979, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Government) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action
Account established with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of
the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Government has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
to be carried out by Egyptian Electricity Authority (hereinafter
called EEA), and the Administrator has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Agreement of May 2, 1978 referred to above;
(C) the Government has also requested IDA and International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank) to provide an additional assistance towards the financing of
the Project and by agreements of even date herewith between the
Government and IDA and between the Bank and EEA, IDA and the Bank
are agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to one hundred thirty-nine million dollars
($139,000,000) (hereinafter called the Bank/IDA Funds);
(D) the Government intends to contract from: (i) the OPEC
Special Fund; (ii) the United States Agency for International
Development (hereinafter called USAID); (iii) the European Invest-
ment Bank (hereinafter called EIB); (iv) the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of the Government of Japan; and (v) other aid
donors; (hereinafter collectively called the Other Co-financiers);
and (vi) other sources (hereinafter called Foreign Creditors);
loans, credits and grants in various foreign currencies in an
approximate aggregate amount equivalent to two hundred fourteen
million dollars ($214,000,000) to assist further in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be


﻿-2-
entered into between the Government and the Other Co-financiers
and between the Government and the Foreign Creditors; and
(E) EEA will carry out the Project with the Government's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Government will
make available to EEA the proceeds of the Special Action Credit as
hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Government upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred tc in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
Conditions, is modified to read the "Government".
(c) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the Genercl Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(d) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and


﻿-3-
(e) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;
(c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Government and EEA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Government and IDA for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; and
(e) "Loan Agreement" and "Guarantee Agreement" mean the
agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and EEA and
between the Government and the Bank, respectively, for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreements may be amended from time to
time; and such terms include the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreements, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
Forty-two million eight          Belgian francs    (BF42,825,000);
hundred twenty-five thousand
Five million three hundred       Danish kroner      (DK5,330,000);
thirty thousand
Twenty million five hundred      Deutsche marks    (MD20,585,000);
eighty-five thousand
Twenty-one million seven         French francs     (FF21,760,000);
hundred sixty thousand
Forty-seven thousand five        Irish pounds         (IRZ47,500);
hundred Irish pounds
Two billion five hundred         Italian lire  (ItL2,525,174,000);
twenty-five million one
hundred seventy-four thousand
One million three hundred        Luexmbourg francs  (LFl,347,000);
forty-seven thousand
Five million six hundred         Netherlands      (Dfl 5,690,000);
ninety thousand                guilders
and
Five million two hundred         Pounds sterling     (E5,247,800).
forty-seven thousand
eight hundred
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Government
and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Adminis-
trator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.


﻿-5-
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Government, or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a Special Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Government of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Government shall pay to the Adminis-
trator a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, on each of thp various currency
amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from
time to time. The amounts of service charge in various currencies
so found, and additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant
to Section 3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the
currency of the United States of America, or in another currency
selected by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currenc'y as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Government, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of
such notice, service charges shall be payable in such other
currency.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Government shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1,
1989, and ending May 1, 2029, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Government prior to each
payment date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional
currency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Government
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Government for payment of principal required under this
Agreement upon payment by the Government of sufficient funds
therefor in a currency or currencies to be specified by the
Administrator from time to time. In purchasing the currencies
required the Administrator shall be acting as agent of the Govern-
ment and the Government shall be deemed to have made any payment
required under this Agreement only when and to the extent that the
Administrator has received such payment in the currency or cur-
rencies required.
Section 2.08. EEA is designated as representative of the
Government for the purposes of taking any action required or


﻿-7-
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Special Action Credit
Agreement, the Government shall (i) cause EEA to undertake toward
the Administrator and perform such obligations as are set forth
in Articles III, IV and V of the Loan Agreement as if they were
fully set forth herein provided, however, that: (A) all references
to the Bank shall be deemed to refer to the Administrator; and (B)
all references to the Loan shall be deemed to refer to the Special
Action Credit; (ii) cause EEA to perform the provisions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and all the obligations therein set
forth; (iii) take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable EEA to perform such obliga-
tions; and (iv) not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Government shall relend the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit to EEA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Government and EEA under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator,
including the repayment of principal for a period of twenty
years including a five-year grace period and the interest rate at
seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum.
(c) The Government shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the inter-
ests of the Government and the Administrator and to accomplish
the purposes of the Special Action Credit, and except as the
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Government shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Government undertakes toward the Adminis-
trator, mutatis mutandis, the obligations set forth in Sections
2.02, 3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. The Government shall establish, by Decem-
ber 31, 1979, or such other date as the Government and the Admin-
istrator may agree, and thereafter maintain n existence, an
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee on Energy to replace the
Ministerial Committee on Energy created under Prime Minister
Decision No. 252 of 1974, with specific tasks to: (a) take the
lead responsibility and authority for integrated energy planning
activities in Egypt; (b) promote the active participation of the
agencies that are responsible for planning in various sectors of
the economy in Egypt; (c) coordinate the involvement of economic,
finance and budget agencies in the energy planning activity;
and (d) establish a structured process for policy level reviews of
the final product of the energy planning activities.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The EEA Law, or the By-Laws or any of the Decrees, (as
such terms being defined in the Loan Agreement), or any provision
thereof, shall have been amended, suspend d, terminated or re-
pealed so as to affect materially and ad,-ersaly EEA's ability to
carry out its respective covenants, agreem':.ts or obligations set
forth in the Loan Agreement or referred to in this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Government or EEA to withdraw
the proceeds of the Bank/IDA Funds shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreements providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
terminaticn or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Government or EEA to perform any of


﻿-9-
its obligations under such agreements, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
EZA from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Government
under this Agreement or of EEA referred to in this
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the events specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, except for
the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has' been executed on
behalf of the Government and EEA.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Government
and EEA and is legally binding upon the Government and EEA in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date January 8, 1980, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Government under Article
III of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement, except those which are self-terminating earlier by
their owa nature, shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Special Action Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Government; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade and Econo-
mic Cooperation, or the Under-Secretary for International Finance
of the Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade and Economic Coopera-
tion, of the Government, is designated as representative of the
Government for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Government:
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade
and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministry of Economy,                348 GAFEC UN
Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit         % of
Allocated (Expressed      Expenditures
Category           in Dollar Equivalents)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   0
(2) Electro-
mechanical
equipment
(a)  Boiler and              0
auxiliaries
(b) Transmission             0
and sub-
station
(c) Turbine-            31,000,000           100% of foreign
generator                               expenditures
and 100% of
local expen-
ditures ex-
factory
(3) Technical                   500,000           100% of foreign
assistance                                   expenditures
(4) Unallocated               3,500,000
TOTAL    35,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from:
(i) any of the Member States; and
(ii)  any developing country, other than the Government,
which is a member of the International Development
Association and could be the recipient of a Special
Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator;
and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Government and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Government.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the
Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments
for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Government on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Government, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   In accordance with the outcome of contracts awards pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement, the Admin-
istrator may reallocate special action credit funds among the
various Categories, including the establishment of new Categories
if necessary, and adjust the percentage specified in the table
of this Schedule. The Administrator will notify EEA of any reallo-
cation or percentage change.


﻿- 14 -
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
7.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Government: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
8.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Adminis-
trator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Government, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
Construction of a thermal power station at Shoubrah El
Kheima with two 300-MW, oil/gas-fired units to be connected to
EEA's interconnected system as the first stage of a 900-MW plant
(3x300 MW) ultimately planned for this site.
Part B:
Construction of a loop of about 4-km of three double-circuit
220-kV overhead and underground transmission lines connecting the
full 900-MW Shoubrah El Kheima capacity to the Cairo North-Cairo
West section of the Cairo 220-kV .ring, plus reinforcement of about
5-km of the 220-kV ring and replacement of circuit breakers at the
Cairo North substation.
Part C:
(i) Feasibility studies for generation and transmission
expansion; and
(ii) Load research and load management studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as the Administrator, EEA and the Other Co-financiers
shall otherwise agree to the end that, in order to permit full
utilization of the USAID Grant and the Special Action Credit the
proceeds of the said Grant and Special Action Credit shall be
committed, to the extent practicable, before the proceeds of Joint
Funds (as defined in the Loan Agreement), the goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines. Consequently, if such bidding will
not result in the utilization of the said Special Action Credit,
EEA shall, with the agreement of the Other Co-financiers and based
on the recommendations of the consultants for Parts A and B of the
Project referred to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement, prepare
a bid package or bid packages to be procured only from (A) any of
the Member States and (B) any developing country which is referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on t       basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the iequirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, EEA shall prepare and forward
to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Administrator
shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
civil works in question. EEA shall provide the necessary informa-
tion to update such notice annually so long as any goods or civil
works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to EEA of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Government and the Adminis-
trator that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Egypt equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿- 18 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1. Review of prequalification. EEA shall, before qualification is
invited, inform the Administrator in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The list of prequa-
lified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequa-
lification shall be furnished by EEA to the Administrator for its
comments before the applicants are notified of EEA's decision, and
EEA shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts required for Parts A and B of
the Project and estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, EEA shall furnish to the
Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 19 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, EEA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Adminis-
trator of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants for
Parts A and B of the Project referred to in Section 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Administrator shall
reasonably request. The Administrator shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform EEA and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, EEA shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to fhe Administrator of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request. The Administrator shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Govern-
ment and EEA and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, EEA shall inform the Adminis-
trator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsisteit with the provisions
of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Government and
EEA and state the reasons for its determination.


