CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 935 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 6, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 935 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 1979, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Government) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Government has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the loan agreement of even date herewith entered into between
the Bank and Egyptian Electricity Authority (hereinafter called
EEA) by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by EEA with the Govern-
ment's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Government
will make available to EEA the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(C) the Government has also requested the Bank to provide
financial assistance to EEA towards the financing of the Project
and by the said loan agreement between the Bank and EEA (herein-
after called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide
such assistance to EEA in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to one hundred two million dollars ($102,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan);
(D) the Government, the Bank and the Association intend,
to the extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit pro-
vided for in this Agreement be withdrawn or committed on account
of expenditures on the Project before the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement; and
(E) the Government also intends to contract from other
co-financiers and other sources, loans, credits and grants in an
approximate aggregate amount equivalent to $249,000,000 to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
agreements to be entered into between the Government and said
other co-financiers and other sources;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Government upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions): the term "Borrower", wherever it may
appear, is modified to read the "Government".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and "Subsidiary Loan
Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Government and EEA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-seven million dollars ($37,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Government, the Bank
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Crodit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 of
the Loan Agreement as if they were fully set forth herein.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Government of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Government shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Sect-on 2.07. The Government shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 1989, and ending
June 1, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on June 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. EEA is designated as representative of the
Government for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limi_ation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Government shall (i) cause EEA to undertake toward
the Association and perform such obligations as are set forth in
Articles III, IV and V of the Loan Agreement as if they were fully
set forth herein, provided, however that: (A) all references to
the Bank shall be deemed to refer to the Association and (B) all
references to the Loan shall be deemed to refer to the Credit;
(ii) cause EEA to perform the provisions of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and all the obligations therein set forth; (iii)
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of


﻿-4-
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable EEA to perform such obligations; and (iv)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Government shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to EEA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Government and EEA under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, including the repay-
ment of principal for a period of twenty years including a five-
year grace period and the interest rate at seven and nine-tenths
per cent (7.90%) per annum.
(c) The Government shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Government and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Government shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Government undertakes toward the Associa-
tion, mutatis mutandis, the obligations set forth in Sections
2.022 3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement of even
date herewith between the Government and the Bank with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 3.03. The Government shall establish, by Decem-
ber 31, 1979, or such other date as the Government and the Asso-
ciation may agree, and thereafter maintain in existence, an
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee on Energy to replace the
Ministerial Committee on Energy created under Prime Minister
Decision No. 252 of 1974, with specific tasks to: (a) take the
lead responsibility and authority for integrated energy planning
activities in Egypt; (b) promote the active participation of the
agencies that are responsible for planning in various sectors of
the economy in Egypt; (c) coordinate the involvement of economic,
finance and budget agencies in the energy planning activity; and
(d) establish a structured process for policy level reviews of the
final product of the energy planning activities.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. The events specified in Sections 6.01 and 6.02
of the Loan Agreement are specified as additional events for the


﻿-5-
purposes of Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions,
respectively.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Government and EEA; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Government
and EEA and is legally binding upon the Government and EEA in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date January 8, 1980, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Government under Article
III and the provisions of Article IV of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Government; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade and Eco-
nomic Cooperation, or the Under-Secretary for International
Finance of the Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade and Economic


﻿-6-
Cooperation of the Government, is designated as representative of
the Government for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Government:
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade
and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministry of Economy,                348 GAFEC UN
Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-7-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


