CONFORMATION COPY
LOAN NUMBER 702 TH
Loan Agreement
(Third Bangkok Port Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
DATED AUGUST 6, 1970


﻿CONFORMATION COPY
LOAN NUMBER 702 TH
Loan Agreement
(Third Bangkok Port Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
DATED AUGUST 6, 1970


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower), an
autonomous entity established by the Port Authority of Thailand Act, B.E. 2494.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein (said Gene-al Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Port Legislation" means the Port Authority of Thailand Act,
B.E. 2494 as amended by the Port Authority of Thailand Act (No. 2),
B.E. 2499 and the Port Authority of Thailand Act (No. 3),
B.E. 2502.
(b)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Second Port
Project) dated October 12, 1956 between the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand dollars ($12,500,000).
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance


﻿4
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
and to be financed under the Loan Agreement; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1974 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven per cent
(7%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.08. If and as the Bank shall from time to time request, the Borrower
shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan
as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of the Borrower
and such other person or persons as the Board of Commissioners shall appoint
in writing are designated as authorized representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineering


﻿5
and port management practices, and shall make available promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms
and conditions and in accordance with a time schedule, satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall include but shall not necessarily be limited to: (i) qualified
and experienced engineering consultants; and (ii) a qualified and experienced
dredging consultant.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services (other than consultants' services) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of
all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
Subject (except as otherwise provided in such Schedule) to the prior approval of
the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure or make adequate provision for
the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and contract
documents and construction schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times conduct its business and
operations and maintain its financial position in accordance with sound financial
and commercial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound port management
practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain its facilities,
equipment, floating craft and other properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and port im-anagement standards; and (ii) take all practical steps which
may be reasonably necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.04. In order to assist the Borrower in the efficient conduct of
its operations, the Borrower shall employ an accounting consultant acceptable to
the Bank, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall employ management consultants acceptable
to the Bank, upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to study the
feasibility of adapting the Borrower's system for cargo handling and other related
port operations to a multiple shift system and after consultation with the Bank
shall take, by not later than January 1, 1972, or such other date as may be agreed
to by the Bank, such steps as are necessary to implement the recommendations
of such consultants.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect its
operations and financial condition in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all such measures, including but not limited to adjustments of its tariffs,
as shall be required to provide the Borrower with net operating revenue sufficient
to yield an annual rate of return of not less than 8% on the net value of the
Borrower's fixed assets in operation.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term "net operating revenue" means the difference between
(A) gross operating revenues, and (B) operating, administrative
and maintenance expenses, including straight-line depreciation at
an average rate of not less than 3.5% of the depreciable fixed
assets, taxes (if any), but excluding interest and other charges
on debt, and Treasury remittances;
(ii)        the net value of fixed assets in operation shall be the gross value
of such assets, as revalued from time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation
acceptable to the Bank, less the amount of accumulated
depreciation;
(iii)       the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year of the Borrower by relating the amount of net


﻿8.
operating revenue in such year to the average of the net values
of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
at the end of such year.
(c)   Without limitation or restriction on the foregoing, the Borrower's rates
and charges shall be reasonably based on the costs of the services to which such
rates and charges refer.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not incur any debt unless the amount of its net cash revenue in the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or in a later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall have been at least one and
three-quarters times the maximum debt service requirements in any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   the term "debt" means all indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt;
(c)   the term  "net cash revenue" means the difference between (i) gross
revenues from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's tariffs in
effect at the time the debt is to be incurred even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or other twelve-month period in which such revenues accrued,
and (ii) operating, administrative and maintenance expenses, excluding depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt, but including taxes (if any), and Treasury
remittances;
(d)   the term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt;
(e)   whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency could, at the
time of such valuation, lawfully be obtained by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at a rate
of exchange reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.05. Section 5.07 of the Prior Loan Agreement shall be amended
to read as in Section 5.04 of this Loan Agreement.


﻿9
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, until the Project
has been completed the Borrower shall not make, or enter into commitments to
make, any capital expenditures for the re-alignment of the bar channel at the mouth
of the Chao Phraya River, the construction of berths at Klong Toi (other than
the berths included in the Project), or the purchase of floating cranes or additional
dredgers.
Section 5.07. The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security
for any debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds,
and that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (ii) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after its date.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation and Information
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and
the Borrower shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes
Section 7.01. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in the territories of
the Guarantor on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds, or the payment


﻿10
of principal, interest or other charges thereunder: provided, however, that the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond
to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned
by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 7.02. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds.
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 8.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 8.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor
declare the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be
due and payable immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon
and upon any such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become
due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement
or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
Section 8.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following addi inal event is specified:
The Port Legislation shall have been suspended, terminated, repealed
or amended so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the
Bank, the Borrower's ability to perform its obligations under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE IX
Termination
Section 9.01. The date November 4, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9                                 11
ARTICLE X
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 10.01. The Director of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 10.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Port Authority of Thailand
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:
PAT
Bangkok
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
By /s/ Sunthorn Hongladarom
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of amounts of the Loan to
each category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                       Dollar Equivalent)
I.    Civil Works at Klong Toi including
dredging, electricity, drainage,
water supply, etc.                                  10,090,000
1I.   Engineering Fees                                      900,000
III.  Technical Assistance of Experts
and Management Consultants                             360,000
IV.   Unallocated                                          1,150,000
TOTAL              12,500,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in currency of the Guarantor, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Guarantor;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:


﻿14
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in
respect of any other expenditures.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1974                                   220,000
March 15, 1975                                       225,000
September 15, 1975                                   235,000
March 15, 1976                                       240,000
September 15, 1976                                   250,000
March 15, 1977                                       260,000
September 15, 1977                                   270,000
March 15, 1978                                       275,000
September 15, 1978                                   285,000
March 15, 1979                                       295,000
September 15, 1979                                   310,000
March 15, 1980                                       320,000
September 15, 1980                                   330,000
March 15, 1981                                       340,000
September 15, 1981                                   355,000
March 15, 1982                                       365,000
September 15, 1982                                   380,000
March 15, 1983                                       390,000
September 15, 1983                                   405,000
March 15, 1984                                       420,000
September 15, 1984                                   435,000
March 15, 1985                                       450,000
September 15, 1985                                   465,000
March 15, 1986                                       480,000
September 15, 1986                                   500,000
March 15, 1987                                       515,000
September 15, 1987                                   535,000
March 15, 1988                                       550,000
September 15, 1988                                   570,000
March 15, 1989                                       590,000
September 15, 1989                                   610,000
March 15, 1990                                       630,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿16
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                 Premium
Not more than three years before
maturity                                         1%
More than three years but not
more ti.an six years before
maturity                                         2%
More than six years but not more
than eleven years before
maturity                                     3-1/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  5%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                  6%
More than eighteen years before
maturity                                         7%


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project consists of downstream extension of Klong Toi wharves at
Bangkok Port and includes:
1.   Construction of four deep-water berths, each approximately 185 meters
long;
2.    Construction of two lighterage berths, each approximately 100 meters
long;
3.    Construction of two transit sheds, each having a covered area of
approximately 10,500 square meters;
4.    Ancillary works including acquisition of land, electricity, roads,
railways, open storage areas, dredging, bridges and culverts, water
supply, drainage, etc.;
5.    Consultants' services  for  engineering  and  supervision  during
construction;
6.    Management consultants' services to review cargo-handling methods and
operations; and
7.    Technical assistance of experts for dredging and accounting systems.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1973.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procedure outlined below shall
be followed for all civil works contracts:
1.    All civil works included in the Project shall be included in a single
contract. Prequalification, as described in paragraph 1.3 of the Guidelines, shall
be employed for civil works bidders. A period of 45 days shall be allowed for
submission of prequalification documents. Prior to prequalification, the Borrower
shall send to the Bank a list of all firms requesting prequalification, together with
the proposed list of prequalified contractors and the reasons for approval or
rejection.
2.    Prior to issuing and publishing invitations to bid, the Borrower shall
send to the Bank for approval two copies of the invitation to bid, draft forms
of contract, specifications and all other bid documents together with a complete
description of the international advertising procedure to be used (including a list
of publications in which the advertisements will appear and the time to be allowed
for bid preparation). Bidders shall be allowed at least 84 days to submit their
bids and shall not be required to be registered in Thailand as a condition to submit
bids. Should any other formality be required of a successful bidder before
undertaking the works, every facility shall be furnished to the contractor to avoid
any possible delay.
3.    Contracts shall include adequate escalation clauses, as described in
paragraph 4.4 of the Guidelines, and shall show unit prices.
4.    After bids have been received and analyzed, two copies of the analysis
of bids, the recommendations of the consulting engineers and the proposals of
the Borrower for award, together with the reason for such proposals, shall be
submitted to the Bank for its review and comment prior to the award of the
contract or issuance of a letter of intent. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. If it is proposed to
award any contract to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, the reasons for
such proposal shall be stated in writing to the Bank.
5.    If the proposed final contracts were to differ from    the terms and
conditions contained in the respective documents approved by the Bank under
(2) and (4) above, two copies of the text of the proposed changes shall be submitted
to the Bank for its review and comment prior to the execution of the contract.
6.    After award of the contract, two copies of the final contract shall
be transmitted to the Bank.


