*i     (   /L       --.  -' /  v     L   4/t 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MI GRH'UXI CHIE CoPY
R1-cprt No.  964 2 -YE'W  Type: (i;Al-t Z
RAT URA, ih / X;j:;.`:i6 /  1- (CI 17!,  M.-.At;
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPuBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
MAY 7, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
4      I .                                * .  . I  .  . .  .  . .  .    .  .   I 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  Yemeni Rial (YRI)
Yeameni Dinar (YE))
US$1.00                  -    YRls 12.00
Y'RI 1.00               -    US$0.0833
Y'Rls 1.0 million       -    US$83,333
YD 1.00                  -    YRIs 26.00
YR 1.00                  -    YU 0.038
(As of April 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I millimeter (mm)                    -    0.039 iniches
I meter (m)                          -    3.281 feet
I square iuter (gn2)                 -    10.765 squale feet
I kilonieter (km)                    -    0.621 mile
I hectare (ha)                       -    10.000 sq. metere
(2.47 acres)
1 metric ton (mc)                    -    2,205 pouinds
1 liter (1)                          -    0.264 US gallon
1 liter per second (1/s)             -    0.0353 cubic foot per second
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s)            35.314 cul)ic feet per '½cond
1 million cubic meters (Me'3'        -    1.31 million cubic yards
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AREA        Agricultural Research and Extenisioni Authiority
ASMSP       Agricultuire Sector Management Support Project
CHADP       Central Highlands Agriculcural Development Project
CLCCD       Confederationi of Local Councils for Cooperative
Development
DCFM        Directorate General of Farm Mechaniization and Land
Reclamation
DCFR        Directorate Gcneral of Forestry anid Rangelands
DCI         Directorate Cenieral ot Irrigation and Maintenance of
Watei liistallations
DCWR        Directorate Cenoral of Water ResouLrces
ERADA       Eastern Region Agricultural Developmenit Authority
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organiization
CDP         Gross Domestic Ilroduct
liTB        High Tender Board
liWC        Higih Water CoUiicil
ICB         Internationial Competitive Biddirig
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        Intecnational Fund for Agricultu ral Development
iU          Implemientation Unit
LCB         Local Competitive Biddinig
LCCD        Local Counicil for Cooperative Development
M&E         Moniitorinig and Evaluation
MAWR        Ministry of Agricultture and Water Resources
NADP        National Agrictiltural Developmenit Program
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PDRY        People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PMU         Project Management Uniit
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
RDA         Regional Development Agency
ROY         Republic of Yemen
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SSIIARDA    Saniaa, Sa'a.dali, Hajjah Agricultural and Rural
Development Auchority
SURDP       Southerni Uplands Rural Development Project
TA          Technical Assistance
TDA         Tihama Development Authority
TS          Techinical SecretariaL (of the lligh Water Council)
UNCDF       Uniited Nationis CapiLal Development Funid
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USAID       United States Agency for Interniational Developmenit
WMU         Water Monitorinig Unit
WRAY        Water Resources Analysis of Yemen (project
Netherlanids-supported)
WRS         Water Resources Sector (of MAWR)
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January I - Diovnlher 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                                            Paye No.
Credit  and  Project  Summary    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                 i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION    ....  .                  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .     .  1
II.   THE  AGRICULTURE  SECTOR    ....                .      .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .     .  2
General .... . . . . . . . . .  ...                                                     2
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources . . . .                                     2
Major  Constraints  to Agricult  ral  Development  .  .  .                              3
Agricultural  Development  Strategy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                          3
Exterr.al Assistance                             ..4
Rationale  for  IDA  Involvement  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                        5
III.   THE  IRRIGATION AND  FORESTRY  SUB-SECTORS  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                              5
A.   The  Irrigation  Sub-Sector  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .                         5
Water  Resource  Base  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .                     5
Water  Resource  Policy  and  Regulation    .  .  .  .  .  .  .                         6
Current  Status  of  Irrigation Resources    .  .  .  .  .  .                           7
Institutional  Arrangements    .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                        9
Future  Strategy  for  Irrigation  Sector  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                          9
B.   The  Forestry  Sub-Sector  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                      10
Forest Resources                       ..10
Watershed  Management    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .                     11
Institutional  Arrangements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                     11
Forest  Management  and Utilization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                        13
Constraints  and  Priorities    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                     13
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission consisting of Rahul Raturi.
Agricultural Economist, Mission Leader, Nejdet Al-Salihi, Irrigation Engineer, ColLn Holloway, Senior
Forestry Specialist, Rita Hilton, Economist, and John Farnworth, Agronomist (Consultant), which
visited the Republic of Yemen in May/June, 1991. Peer reviewers for the report included the following
IDA Staff: Messrs. Fairchild, Fuleihan, Xhan, Nightingale, Plusquellec, Rowe and Souhlal; the report
was typed by Mr. Govind Bora, and internal consistency of the report was checked by Mr. Sant Khorana.
The report was prepared under the overall supervision of Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (Division Chief,
MN2AG) and approved by Mr. Ram K. Chopra, Director (MN2) and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, Vice President,
Middle East and North Africa Region.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Sank authorization.



ChptU                                                          Page No.
IV.      THE   ROJEC  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
A.  Project Obiectives and Strategy   . . . . . . . . .        14
B.  ProJect_QAea  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        15
C.  Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
D.  Detailed Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
Irrigation Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
Water Resources Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
Forestry Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        18
Watershed Management and Terrace Stabilization  . .        20
Pilot Activities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
Summary of Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . .        21
E.  Environmental ILDact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
F.  Status of Project Pregaration   . . . . . . . . . .        22
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FI,NANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
A.  Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
B.  Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
C.  Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        25
D.  Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        28
VI.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . .         29
A.  Proiect Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        29
Institutional Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . .        29
Arrangements for Water Resources Planning and
Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        30
Physical Implementation of Project Components   . .        32
B.  Imolementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
C.  Cost Recovery   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
D.  Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . .        35
E.  Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        36



Chaote                                                    Pagte No.
VII.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . .    36
A.  Benefits    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
B.    Justification  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
Financial Analysis.     .         .  .  .  .   . . . . .    38
Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
C.   Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  39
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . .  . . . . .    41
A.    Assurances    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
B. Recommendation ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    43
TABLES IN THE TEXT
5.1    Project  Costs    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
5.2 Project Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
5.3 Procurement Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
5.4 Disbursement Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
5.5 Estimated Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . .    28
ANNEMS
1.    Table 1: Improvements to Groundwater Irrigation Conveyance
System (Works Included in Project)  . . . . .    44
Table 2: Criteria for Selecting Farms for PVC Piped
System    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  45
Table 3: Spate Improvement Works Included in Project .    46
Table 4: Irrigation Sector Developments - Distribution
of Buildings, Machinery and Equipment,
Vehicles, Staff, by RDA/Governorate  . . . .    47
2.    Groundwater Monitoring and Regulations . . . . . . . .    50
3.    Table 1: Forest Nurseries - Location and Production      53
Table 2: Provisional Summary of Agricultural Extension
Centers and Extensionists  . . . . . . . . .    54
Table 3: Proposed Forestry Components - Distribution of
Developments, Equipment, Vehicles, Staff
Requirements, etc. by Region or General
Directorate  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    55
4.     Proposed Training Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 1: Water Sector and Agricultural Development . .   9
Table 2: Forestry Development and Watershed
Management Components  . . . . . . . . . . .    60



ANNEXES
Page No.
5.     Pilot  Studies  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  61
A. Pilot Study for Optimal Use of Saline Water for
Irrigation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
B. Pilot Study for Reuse of UrkLn Waste Water for
Irrigation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6.     Stummary of Technical Assistance (Staff Months)  . . . .    63
7.     Cost Tables
Table 1: Summary Accounts Cost Summary . . . . . . . .    64
Table 2: Project Components by Year  . . . . . . . . .    65
Table 3: Summary Accounts by Year  . . . . . . . . . .    66
8.     Tentative Project Finance Plan ((US$ Million)   . . . .    67
9      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit . . .    69
10.     Key Monitoring Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    70
11.  Supervision Plan .72
12.     Table 1: Irrigation Farm Models .      . . . . . . . . . .    73
Table 2: Incremental Agricultural Production (Tons)       74
Table 3: Financial and Economic Agricultural Prices       75
Table 4: Unit Cost of Groundwater  . . . . . . . . . .    76
Table 5: Summarized Results - Farm Income Analysis . .    77
13.     Table 1: Economic Farmgate Prices .  . . . . . . . . .    78
Table 2: Economic Value of Fuelwood  . . . . . . . . .    79
Table 3: Economic R te of Return . . . . . . . . . . .    80
14.     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File     81
CHARTS
1.     Organization Chart of MAWR . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    82
2.     Water Resources Sector of MAWR Organization Chart         83
3.     Organization of DGFR (Central) and Regional Forest
Services before and after Project Implementation  .      84
4.     Summary of Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . .    88
RAP
IBRD 23186: Republic of Yemen - Land and Water Conservation Project



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
B2rrower             : Government of the aepublic of Yemen
Credit Amount           SDR 24.1 million (US$32.8 million equivalent)
Terms                 : Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
ImRlementing Agency : Ministry of Agriculture & Water Resources (MAWR)
Project Objectives
and Description      : The objectives of the project are to strengthen
sustainable agriculture through: (i) institutional
and technical developments in irrigation and
forestry; (ii) initiating a program of water
resource monitoring and regulation in the
agriculture sector; (iii) improving water use
efficiency in irrigated agriculture;
(iv) conserving key indigenous forest areas,
accelerating tree planting, and extending soil and
water conservation; and (v) establishing approaches
for watershed management and terrace stabilization.
The project would provide: (a) improved groundwate;
irrigation conveyance systems, using PVC pipes, for
about 14,350 ha; (b) equipment to demonstrate
improved irrigation application technologies;
(c) materials for constructing improved structures
for spate irrigated schemes on identified wadis;
(d) equipment and vehicles for irrigation systems
maintenance, and for strengthening the water
monitoring system; (e) materials and equipment for
forest nurseries, sand fixation and flood control
activities, and for watershed management and
terrace stabilization; and (f) construction of
offices, and provision of vehicles, equipment,
training and technical assistance for the Water
Resources Sector and the Directorate General for
Forestry and Rangelands of the MAWR.
Benefits & Risks     : The direct benefits of the project would include
increased agricultural production, environmental
benefits from soil and water conservation and
strengthened institutions to better manage the
irrigation and forestry sub-sectors. Indirect
benefits would include preservation of woody
biomass and protection of indigenous fauna and
flora through better woodlands management,



- ii -
increased tree planting and control of sand
encroachment over agricultural lands, and
demonstration of repl.cable approaches for soil
conservation and watershed management, reuse of
urban waste water for agriculture, and use of
saline water for crop production.  The estimated
economic rate of return is 19 percent. While
quantified project returns are robust, the
principal risks relate to achieving the
institutional and conservation objectives of the
project, in terms of: (i) enforcement of water
conservation regimes and the enactment of necessary
regulation; (ii) involvement of local communitias
in forestry development, (iii) effective use of
technical assistance; and (iv) availability of
counterpart funds. The project's design takes into
consideration the above risks, primarily through a
clearly defined and dated implementation schedule
for key actions. Agreement has been reached on
measures to be accomplished under the project,
including measures for water monitoring, basin
planning, and registration and control over
drilling rigs. In addition, arrangements agreed
for project implementation require direct
interaction with local communities to ensure their
active involvement; and detailed terms of reference
have been drawn up and agreed with Government for
the proposed technical assistance. In addition,
overall risks would also be minimized by the clear
commitment expressed by Government to the proposed
program. A mid-term review in 1995 would also
provide an opportunity to make adjustments to the
project, if necessary. As a condition of
negotiations, the Government has established the
Project Management Unit, and approved a Council of
Ministers Decree to restrict the random drilling of
wells and to regulate the activities of drilling
companies; detailed regulations for the
enforcement of the Decree have also been prepared
and approved by the Government.



- iii -
Costs. Financing and Disbursement Summary
Estimated Frolect Catal/
Foreign     Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Base Cogts
-^---- (US$ M)------   --------(X)---------
Irrigation
Institution Strengthening        0.9      4.1     5.0       82          13
Technical Developments
Spate Irrigation               1.9      2.6     4.5       58         12
Groundwater Irrigation         1.6    12.7    14.3        89          37
Agricultural Development       0.4      0.9     1.3       69           3
Implementation Units           1.3      2.Z    4.0        fg         10
Subtotal                   6.1    23.0    29.1       80          76
Forestry and Land Conservation
Institution Strengthening        0.4      3.1     3.5       89           9
Technical Developments
Land Conservation and
Afforestation                1.4      2.0     3.4       59          9
Watershed Management           0.7      1.6     2         70           6
Subtotal                   2.5     6.7      9.2       73         24
TOTAL LASELINE COSTS          8.6    29.7    38.3        77        100
Physical Contingencies        0.9      2.9     3.8       76         10
Price Contingencies           1.6      3.9     5.5       71         14
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS'         11.      3       47.26      7         VA2
.1/ Exclusive of duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
2/   Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Financing Plan
Financing Source             Local   Foreign   Total    Total Cost&
.-- (US$ M) --
Governaent                    5.6       2.7      8.3          17
IDA                           3.1      29.7     32.8          69
UNCDF                         0.1       3.1      3.2           7
Farmers' Direct
Contribution                 2.3       0.8      3.1           6
From IDA Cr. 1453-YAR         0.0       0.2      0.2 Q .&
Total         11.1      36.5     47.6         100
Estimated ComgletLon Date: December 31, 1998



iv -
Estimate4 R\E&5u35WmgnEs:
IDA Fiscal Year
1993   1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
------------ -(US$ Million)--------------
Annual            0.3    3.2       7.2    8.4    8.4    4.8    0.5
Cumulative        0.3    3.5    10.7   19.1   27.5   32.3   32.8
Economic Rate of Return: 19 percent
Map: IBRD 23186



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Yemen (ROY) was formed in May 1990, unifying the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) and the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR).
It has an estimated population of about 12 million people, which is growing at
about 3.0 percent per annum, and occupies an area of 537,000 sq. km of largely
mountainous and desertic terrains.   Scarre and diminishing supplies of fresh
water restrict the total annually cultivated area to 1.4 million ha.  Other
natural resources include extensive rangelands linked with diminishing stocks of
indigenous woody biomass, approximately 2,000 km of marine coastline with large
fishery resources and limited oil reserves.
1.02     With scarce natural resources and low arnual per capita Gross National
Product estimated at US$550, Yemen remains a poor country. Before unification,
the economic structure of the North was undergoing significant changes as oil
extraction increased.   Agriculture, however, remained the dominant sector,
followed by government services; output from crops, livestock and fisheries
accounted for about 20 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In the South,
which had a centrally controlled economy, government services were by far the
most important sector (33 percent of GDP), followed by agriculture.   In the
combined setting, agriculture remains the most important sector (contributing 20
percent of GDP, and providing employment to about 60 percent of the labor force).
1.03      Both the northern and southern Governorates of Yemen have trad3tionally
depended for foreign exchange on overseas workers' remittances and various forms
of aid. Since 1988, these sources have been augmented by limited oil exports.
Due to inappropriate macroeconomic and sectoral policies, both parts of the
country have experienced prolonged periods of serious macroeconomic imbalances
and instability. From 1985 to 1989, budget deficits averaged 17 percent of GDP
in YAR and 40 percent in PDRY, while the balance of payments deficits averaged
11 percent and 28 percent respectively.   The budget deficits were largely
financed by domestic credit creation, causing intense inflationary pressures; in
1990, the price index for Sana'a was estimated to have increased by about 34
percent. The balance of payments deficits were increasingly financed by external
borrowing, which created a heavy debt burden.   Since unification,  the new
Government has been grappling with these problems as well as the challenge of
amalgamating two sets of public administrations. The International Development
Association (IDA) is working with the Government to help define a medium-term
strategy for reveriing the poor economic situation. The imDalances faced by the
economy have, in addition, been severel.y aggravated by the recent crisis in the
Midule East. To address some of the problems emerging from the crisis, IDA has
recently approved an Emergency Recovery Credit (Cr. 2258-YEM).
1.04      Since the 1960s, both parts of the now unified country had adopted
policies focused on developments which emphasized agriculture, communications,
infrastructure, health and education. These poli ies were implemented through
Development Plans, of which the Third (1986-91) ended in 1991.  Under these



2 -
Plans, both parts made significant progress in transforming subsistence economies
with small external sectors towards more developed economies. In the absence of
further discoveries, revenues from oil extraction would barely compensate for the
drop in private and public transfers from abroad since 1982. This implies that
agriculture will continue to play a key role for the foreseeable future; the
recent crisis and the resulting dislocation has further emphasized the importance
of the agriculture sector to the Yemeni economy.
II. TIlE AORXCUL1SURE SECTDOR
2.01      An estimated 1.4 million ha are cultivated annually in Yemen, L. which
400,000 ha benefit from applied irrigation water, either from controlled sources
(250,000 ha) or from wadi spate flows (150,000 ha); the remaining one million ha
are rainfed. Livestock form an important integral part of the farming systems.
Most land is cultivated by individual farmers, who in the South are often
organized on a cooperative basis. In the northern Governorates 90 percent of
farms are owner-occupied; in the southern Governorates the Government is now in
the process of transferring land titles to original/new owners.
2.02      During the 1980s, the contribution by agriculture to GDP of the
northern Governorates declined in actual terms (from about 25 percent in 1982 to
around 20 percent in 1989), due to deterioration in sector performance resultlng
from persistent drought and correspondingly higher growth rates in other sectors.
Conversely, in the South, agriculture's relative contribution increased (from 10
percent to 15 percent), prompted by insignificant growth in other sectors.
Cultivation is divided between cereals (47 percent), forage (20 percent), tree
crops, including coffee, fruit and qat--a mild, non-addictive stimulant which is
widely consumed in Yemen--(12 percent), vegetables (8 percent) and others,
including cotton, pulses a,,o oilseeds (13 percent). Overall, domestic food
production has been insufficient to meet the demands of the growing population,
and imports of food and live animals have increased steadily, to exceed US$400
million in 1989 (3 percent of GDP).
bl t=y of Anriculture and Water Resources
2.03      Under the unified Government, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources 'MAWR) was established, with major emphasis and control over national
water rest trces. It operates through three subministries: Plant and Livestock
Productlon Water Resources Sector (WRS), and General Administration, each headed
by a Deputy Minister; and 4 Directorates General under the Minister (Chart 1).
The overall structure is large and complex, given the requirements of the
agriculture sector in Yemen, and the personnel and fiscal resources available.
The recently approved IDA Credit 2299-YEM for A.gricultural Sector Management
Support Project (ASKSP) includes a study for making proposals on the future
structure and staffing of MAWR (para. 2.10). The proposed project would assist
Government in rationalizing and strengthening the organizations of the WRS and
Directorate General of Forestry and Rangelands (DGFR).
2.04      To support agrlcultural development in the regions, five Regional
Development Agencies (RDA) have been established within the northern Governorates
with IDA support, covering the main ecological zones:   Tihama Development
Authority (TDA), Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP), Central
Highlands Agricultural Development Project (CHADP), Sana'a, Sa'adah, Hajjah



- 3 -
Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (SSHARDA), and Eastern Region
Agricultural Development Authority (ERADA). Although RDAs have not been formally
established in the South, the main areas of agriculture production -- Wadi
Hadramavt, Wadi Tuban, Wadi Abyan and Wadi Beihan -- have been the focus of
developments supported by IDA assistance.
Eaior Constraints to Asricultural Development
2.05      While Yemen is endowed with a variety of resources, poor natural
resource management and environmental degradation threatens future agricultural
development.   Due to lack of effective Government controls on resources,
population pressure and the predominant focus on tubewell irrigation expansion,
the delicate balance between land and water resources is being endangered. The
key issues include: (i) over-exploitation and inefficient use of groundwater
resources, resulting in depletion of reserves and problems of soil salinity; (ii)
deforestation, resulting from increasing demand for wood; (iii) decertification
in selected coastal areas and on agricultural land bordering desert terrain; and
(iv) abandonment and subsequent erosion of the highland terrace systems with
consequences  for  overall  watershed management.    In  order  to  coordinate
environmental remedial actions and to develop a policy for the country, an
Environmental Protection Council (EPC) was established in the northern
Governorates in 1987; the EPC has been receiving technical support from the
Netherlands Government.
2.06      In addition to the above issues, agriculture sector developments have
been constrained by the absence of long term strategies and weaknesses in the
central government and support services. Restrictions on foreign exchange have
prevented the procurement of adequate supplies of agricultural production inputs;
constraints on the Government's recurrent budgets have limited field operations.
In addition, dispersed control over water resources management has obstructed the
development of clear policies and appropriate development strategies for water
resources.   Other constraints  include:   over-ambitious agronomic research
programs with inadequate attention to farming systems topics; inadequate funds
for, and poor quality of, operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation systems;
and weaknesses in field extension services. These problems have been recognized
and a consensus has emerged within MAWR of the need to develop more efficient
institutions and to create more effective procedures for coordinating and
planning sub-sectoral development strategies.
Agricultural Development Strategy
2.07      The central focus for agriculture in both parts of Yemen has been on
food self-sufficiency, improved production efficiency and import substitution.
However, achievements have fallen short of expectations. The emphasis over the
last decade has been on regional development and strengthening national
authorities. However, this approach has neglected the central capacities of MAWR
for policy and strategy planning, development coordination, technological backup
and monitoring of development impact. This has impaired the effectiveness of
area development projects and extension operations, and prevented the evolution
of cohesive national strategies for key sub-sectors, like rainfed agriculture,
livestock,  irrigation,  soil  conservation  and  forestry.    Realizing  this
deficiency, the Government (supported by IDA) is adjusting its strategy towards
national and sub-sectoral approaches, in which MAWR can play more effective
planning, advisory and monitoring roles. There is also increasing emphasis in
Government policy towards ensuring that state farms and public corporations are



self-supporting, with the intention of privatizing or phasing-out unsuccessful
units.
External Assistance
2.08      The agricultural sector in both parts of Yemen has received significant
assistance from multilateral and bilateral sources. IDA assistance (totalling
approximately US$15 million per annum for agriculture throughout the 19808) has
supported agricultural development through: (i) establishing RDAs in the North;
(Li) broad based developments in three of the principal wadis in the South; and
(iii) national developments for agricultural research, extension, fisheries and
credit. In addition, UNDP with FAO technical expertise has supported a broad
program of technical support projects.  IFAD has financed free standing projects
in both parts, as well as cofinanced (with IDA) the research and three area
development projects in the North.   USAID has been active in statistics,
monitoring and horticultural developments.   Assistance for rural development,
livestock development, research and extension has been provided by the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED) and the Netherlands, German, Swiss, Italian and the U.K.
governments. The Abu Dhabi Government assisted in the construction of the Marib
Dam. In the southern Governorates, substantial support has been provided by the
former USSR and East Germany, particularly in developing state farms, wadi
control structures, and land levelling in Wadis Tuban, Abyan and Hadramawt.
2.09      Lessons From IDA Lending.  Project Performance and Audit Reports (PPAR)
indicate that past projects have contributed favorably to initiating research and
extension services and developing institutional capabilities in the regions.
However, their impact has been affected by weaknesses in technical planning and
insufficient attention to management.   The main lessons derived include the
following: (i) clear agreements should be reached on the implementation schedule
for key actions and procurement plans prior to Board Presentation in order to
avoid delays in project start-up; (ii) adequate preparatory planning is an
important ingredient for success; (iii) delayed provision of recurrent funds and
late procurements have retarded the pace of project implementation; (iv)
Government commitment towards, proposed technical assistance is essential, based
on agreed terms of reference; and (v) more attention should be given to the
actual requirements of the beneficiaries for whom the components are intended,
in order to ensure active participation. Government has also resisted paying
competitive remuneration to qualified Yemeni engineers, thereby jeopardizing
management. These lessons from past operations have been taken into account in
designing the proposed project.
2.10      IDA's Strategv for Support to Agriculture.   Following up on the
experience from earlier projects, IDA assistance is now being adapted to focus
on sub-sectoral constraints, rather than area specific developments, through a
National Agricultural Development Program (NADP).   NADP is envisaged as an
umbrella operation through which Government can implement projects which:
(i) give national focus to priority subsector developments; (ii) strengthen the
related key departments of MAWR; (iii) expand and strengthen the specialist
technical skills of RDAs; and (iv) improve coordination of aid for the
agriculture sector.   The first project under riADP, ASMSP (IDA Cr. 2299-YEM)
focusses on strengthening MAWR planning and administration, consolidating
agricultural research, developing technical training, and coordinating field
extension operations. The proposed Land and Water Conservation Project would be
the second project under this program, and would focus on upgrading and
strengthening irrigation and forestry developments nationwide.



- 5
Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.11      With limited natural resources and growing population, Yemen's primary
concern is to ensure optimum food production through efficient management of its
scarce land and water resources. At the same time, the Government has recognized
the importance of implementing a national program for natural resource
conservation. Accordingly, in order to consolidate developments from past IDA
support and following on from the ASMSP, the proposed project addresses issues
related to water and land conservation, given their critical importance for
Yemeni agriculture, i.e.: raise efficiency of irrigation management, institute
standards for water and soil conservation, and develop a program for sustainable
watershed and natural forest management and fuelwood production. The proposed
project was identified through the Irrigation Sector Study (1989; IDA Report No.
8030-YAR) and a Forestry Sector planning exercise (financed through Japanese
technical assistance grant).   Detailed project proposals for the northern
Governorates were prepared by IDA, and for the southern Governorates by an FAO/CP
mission which visited Yemen in November 1990 (Annex 14).
III. THE IRRIGATION AND FORESTRY SUB-SECTORS
A. The Irrigation Sub-Sector
Water Resource Base
3.01      An estimated 90 percent of the northern part of Yemen receives less
than the 600 mm annual precipitation generally required for economic rainfed
agriculture. Rainfall varies between 100 mm on the eastern desert to more than
800 mm in the Central Highlands, with an average surface runoff estimated at 1000
Mm3 per annum. In southern Governorates, precipitation varies between 150 mm and
450 mm in the agricultural areas, giving a mean annual flow volume estimated to
be around 400 million cubic meters per annum.   Almost all precipitation is
utilized within the country, either passing to groundwater in the form of deep
percolation or to the atmosphere through evaporation and evapotranspiration, but
l'ttle data exist on the extent of each.  Yemen has considerable underground
water resources; however, available information indicates that groundwater has
been severely overdeveloped and mining is occurring in many areas.
3.02      Compared to other countries in the Arabian Peninsula, water resources
and climatic conditions in Yemen are quite favorable for diversified agriculture.
Even so, water resources are limited.  Traditionally, farmers have developed
bench terraces to make new tillable land wherever rainfed agriculture was
possible. This colossal effort has resulted in significant conservation of the
nation's soil and water resources.   However, the influences of social and
economic developments have tended to reduce family labor available for
maintaining terraces and, consequently, in some areas, degradation is occurring,
which has led to erosion and damage to agricultural lands on the coastal plains.
3.03      Competition for Scarce Water Resources.   Water requirements for
domestic, municipal and industrial purposes are estimated at less than 10 percent
of the total consumption. However, demand even for these purposes is increasing,
as with irrigation, and conflicts are developing among water users.  Private
tubewell owners near urban centers frequently sell water by the truck load to
domestic users. The exploitation of oil and gas will require further quantities
of water.   Near the larger urban centers,  limited opportunities exist for



recycling waste water from domestic and industrial sources for irrigation.
Quantities of waste water currently being produced are estimated to total about
10 million cubic meters per annum and projected to increase to around 40 million
cubic meters by the year 2005.
Water Resource Policr and Regulation
3.04      Data Base.   The data base essential for a rational water sector
strategy is quantitatively and qualitatively deficient, and long-term
hydrological and meteorological data are generally not available. Presently, the
responsibilities for developing a national data base on water resources lie with
the Water Resources Analysis of Yemen (WRAY) project, established in the northern
Governorates with Netherlands Government assistance, and which is located in the
Ministry of Oil and Minerals; in addition, the UNDP-supported Technical
Secretariat (TS) of the High Water Council (HWC) is creating a national data base
for carrying out its tasks (see para. 3.05). In doing so, efforts are underway
to make an inventory of data available from studies of various water catchments
which have been undertaken in the past. The RDAs are used, largely on an ad hoc
basis, in monitoring water resources and for obtaining data; in many cases, these
agencies are not fully equipped to provide reliable data. Information on the
number of tubewells, purpage and irrigation efficiencies is based on limited
sampling areas. There is urgent need to rationalize the presently dispersed
efforts on. the collection, analysis and distribution of natural resource data on
the basis of the WRAY project, and to co-ordinate the activities of the various
organizations which are involved in the water sector.
3.05      Water Regulations and Planning.  There are no formal regulations on
abstraction of water in Yemen.   At the same time, the overdevelopment and
exploitation of water resources requires immediate and decisive action. In an
effort to rationalize water policy and investments, and to improve coordination
in the water sector, the HWC was established in the northern Governorates in
1981, under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister and with an advisory Technical
Secretariat (TS). Technical assistance personnel and related costs for the TS
are being supported by a four-year UNDP-assisted project, Assistance to HWC in
Preparing a Water Master Plan (YEH/88/001). The project aims to achieve the
following outputs:  (a) a comprehensive data base/information system;  (b) a
water resources master plan with alternative development strategies;  (c) an
action program for implementing master plan strategies; and (d) a proposal for
national water policy to result in a national water law.
3.06      However, the TS is understaffed and, as its operations only started on
the ground in 1989, progress in achieving its objectives has been slow. There
are several areas relating to HWC activities that are of particular interest and
relevance to MAWR, including: surface and ground water legislation and
regulations; framework plans and policy matters in the context of global
strategies for using the nation's water resources; and programs to improve water
management. With regard to legislation, MAWR has recently drafted a Water and
Irrigation Law, which was reviewed and commented upon by IDA.   This was
subsequently presented to the Council of Ministers at the end of June, 1991.
However, the Council of Ministers has asked that the document be jointly reviewed
by XAWR, the Ministry of Electricity and Water and the Ministry of Legal Affairs;
a committee has been established for this purpose.
3.07      Apart from separate catchment studies,  there is no comprehensive
national water resources plan. Consequently, minimal information is available
on alternatives or trade-offs involved in development proposals. In addition to



-7-
the deficieney in hydrologlcal data, geotechnical information are generally
incomplete, raising questions concerning the feasibility and safety of small
dams. With regard to monitoring and regulating the use of groundwater in the
agricultural sector, the lack of technical capability in MAWR as well as of
current monitoring data has precluded the initiation of a program for preparing
groundvater basin plans, which could provide the basis for planning and
controlling nev irrigation developments.  Therefore, the creation of a sound
planning basis for vater resources within MAWR with competent technical back-up
in its WRS is crucial.
3.08      Water RLghts.  There is very limited documented information on water
rights. Upstream beneficiaries of spate flows have first claim on water, in
accordance with traditional rights.   In the absence of effectlve control
mechanisms, groundwater is mostly unregulated and land owners have rights to
abstract groundwater according to need. The only regulations concerning the use
of underground water are: (L) the spacing between wells should be at least 500 m;
and (ii) restrictions on drilling of new wells in the Sana'a basin and Wadi Tuban
area. However, these regulations are not enforced, and drilling companies are
not licensed. This has resulted in the serious over-exploitation of the ground
water resource base.
Current Statu of Irrination Resources
3.09      Controlled Irrisation.  There are -an estimated 50,000 wells irrigating
some 230,000 ha; the remaining controlled source irrigation is largely supplied
by springs. Most groundwater irrigation development has occurred in the last 30
years; prior to the 1960s, wells were shallow, and with water lifted by manual
or animal power. This limited the extraction from groundwater aquifers to levels
which were within sustainable yields, and significant seepage occurred from wadis
and spate irrigation to discharge in the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden and the
desert. Since 1970, groundwater development has been predominantly by tubewells,
and indications are that a significant reduction in spring-fed irrigation has
resulted from deelining groundwater tables through pumping.
3.10      There are currently some 200 unregulated well-drilling rigs in the
country, each theoretically capable of drilling two wells per month.  Many new
wells are replacements for those which have either gone out of production or had
to be deepened because of declining water tables. Water levels in major aquifers
are now receding between one and seven meters annually and the incidence of salt
water intrusion is increasing in some northern and south-western coastal areas.
3.11      The Tihama region has experienced the highest growth in groundwater
irrigated areas; current estimates by TDA suggest that there are now some 11,000
wells in Tihama (estimated at 8,200 in 1988), irrigating about 100,000 ha (about
72,000 ha in 1988). Some expansion has also occurred in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah
in the south-west, though limited resources kept the pace much slower.  The
situation ln the rest of the country varies widely. In the uplands, the aquifers
are less productive and, in many cases, the area commanded by each well is only
one ha. Nany wells discharge only 10 to 15 m3/hr and can be pumped only 6 to 8
hours daily. As a result of these developments, the groundwater potential in
most areas will increasingly be limited by economic pumping depth, and in coastal
areas by inereased salinity from sea water lntrusion. In the absence of enforced
regulations, this over-utillzation of groundwater threatens the long term
sustainability of irrigated agriculture.



3.12      Having developed without the benefit of technical planning or guidance,
the overall efficiency of on-farm controlled irrigation systems has been
estimated at between 35 and 40 percent, of which conveyance efficiency is about
75 to 80 percent. It is estimated that this could be increased to nearly 95
percent with a pipe distribution system.  A well-designed pipe distribution
system would increase the overall efficiency to around 50 percent, through
reduced conveyance losses and better scheduling, which would allow for pumping
up to one-third less water for the same application. However, because some of
these savings would result in decreased deep percolation of ground water, the
net, long-term total water saved in the system would be somewhat less; it is
estimated that about 50 percent of water saved from improved irrigation
conveyance efficiency would return to the aquifer in due course. Therefore,
actual long-term groundwater resource savings from improving water conveyance
would be between 15 and 20 percent. Considerable further savings in irrigation
water can be achieved by gradually adopting advanced irrigation systems, such as,
sprinkler, bubbler and drip, which, with good operation and maintenance, could
increase overall localized irrigation efficiency to about 80 percent.
3.13      Particularly in the North (in the Tihama and around Sana'a), but also
in the South (mainly in Beihan), some farmers have installed pipe distribution
systems from the pump head to individual fields at their own cost, in order to
e-onsarve expensive, pumped irrigation water; overall, farmers are becoming
increasingly conscious of the depleting groundwater resource.   Despite high
demand from farmers, a wider application of this technology has been restricted
by limited technical skills for its installation and the lack of materials in the
local market.  The main attractiveness of the piped distribution systems is
simplicity and increased water use efficiency; additional benefits would accrue
in areas of conjunctive use (spate/groundwater), where existing water channels
are washed away at times of spate.
3.14      Spate Irrigation.  Over the centuries farmers have privately developed
traditional diversion systems and spate irrigation networks which are relatively
cheap to build, but require regular repairs to remain operative. With small to
medium spates, the temporary embankments (ogmas) can be effective; with large
spates, the ogmas and spurs are often swept away, requiring rehabilitation
expenditures. Thus., the probability of irrigation of the total command area of
each ogma is variable and risk-prone. In order to achieve better control of the
flood flows, the traditional spate systems in some of the major wadis in both
North and South Yemen were improved over the past three decades. However, some
of the public spate systems have experienced maintenance problems, and often
require complex operating procedures and due regard to traditional water rights
to ensure equitable water distribution. To minimize these problems in future
developments, greater consideration needs to be given to socio-economic aspects
and the closer involvement of local communities in planning the localized
schemes, with due consideration to established traditional water rights.
3.15      Existina Irrigation Practices. Cereals are mostly irrigated in bunded
basins; border strip irrigation of cereals occurs mainly in the South. Potatoes
and vegetables are irrigated in basins or in furrows. Crop yields are generally
below optimum because of, among others, the absence of precise messages on water
management. Professional water management and irrigation scheduling are non-
existent, on account of the absence of irrigation agronomists in RDAs.
Strengthening irrigation technology, in both research and extension, is important
for the sustained development of Yemen's irrigated agriculture, and would be an
important focus for the proposed project.



-9-
Institutional Arrangements
3.16      Prior to unification, the irrigation departments in neither part of
Yemen had any significant effect on water regulation and management.
Acknowledging that water resources are critical to sustained economic
development, the post-unity Government designated MAWR as responsible for its
overall coordination; one of its three sub-ministries, headed by a Deputy
Minister, is for Water Resources (Chart 2). The Water Resources Sector (WRS)
consists of three directorates general, each headed by a director general. Of
these, two are directly responsible for water resources and irrigation: (a)
Directorate General of Water Resources (DGWR) which is organized into seven
departments; and (b) Directorate General of Irrigation and the Maintenance of
Water Installations (DGI) which is also organized into seven departments. In
common with the rest of MAWR, these departmental structures are unnecessarily
heavy and need to be rationalized. The proposed project would finance a study
for refining the structure and departmental objectives of WRS.
3.17      Cost  Recovery  and  Sustainability.        Traditionally,   irrigation
developments for both spate and groundwater extraction were financed and
maintained by the private sector, without fiscal obligation.   Till recently,
diesel fuel was subsidized (about 30 percent); however, in 1991, Government
significantly increased diesel fuel prices, thereby eliminating the subsidy. For
spate areas, water masters were hired for each wadi to resolve disputes relating
to spate water rights and to supervise the rebuilding of canals and dikes
following heavy floods.
3.18      Since the late 1960s, the Government embarked on  projects involving
the construction of permanent spate diversion structures in the main wadis. The
investment and Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs of these schemes are
presently only partially recovered through indirect taxes (at 10 percent) levied
on the value of agricultural production. At the same time, budgetary allocations
made for this purpose are quite inadequate, thereby threatening the
sustainability of the investments; a system of direct O&M cost recovery is,
therefore, essential.   While this could be done by various means, the approach
proposed for Wadi Hadramawt (being implemented under IDA Cr. 1346-YDR) provides
a viable option for implementation in other parts of the country. As presently
envisaged, cooperatives would open bank accounts, into which farmers would
periodically pay agreed water charges. These funds would be used for financing
the O&M costs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that MAWR will prepare a detailed proposal by September 30, 1992, for IDA's
review and comments, for establishing a nationwide mechanism for O&M cost
recovery, which will include an agreed schedule for its implementation [para.
8.01(i)].
Future Strategy for Irritation Sector
3.19      The key shortcomings highlighted in this section emphasize the need for
a comprehensive strategy for the irrigation sector. Accordingly, agreement on
the following broad strategy has been reached with the Government:   (i) the
completion of a national water master plan and enactment of associated
legislation would be expedited; (ii) a strategy to control the drilling of wells
and to encourage more efficient utilization of existing controlled irrigation
facilities must be developed urgently; (iii) a program for improving the
efficiency of spate irrigation works, including the encouragement of small scale,
self-help structures, should be designed; (iv) a national program for O&M of
irrigation works, incorporating principles of self-help by local communities,



- 10 -
should be developed; (v) incentives be devised for encouraging maintenance of
traditional terraces; and (vi) due emphasis on piloting new technologies for
irrigation and waste water recycling should be accorded. The proposed project
would be an important first step towards implementing this strategy.
B. The Forestry Sub-Sector
Forest Resources
3.20      Many areas of Yemen, with annual rainfall of above 300 mm, probably
once carried good forest cover, but centuries of over-use (cutting and stock
grazing)  and  clearance  for  agriculture  have  resulted  in  closed  forest
degenerating into very open woodland or low scattered shrubs.  It exists mostly
as natural woodlands in the vicinity of the main wadis, where water supply
conditions make growth and regeneration possible.  It is estimated that in the
early 1970s there was about 2.5  million ha of woody biomass cover, but it has
subsequently diminished considerably in both density and area.  Yemen has no
gazetted forests or wildlife reserves; most of the existing forest or woodland
areas are owned by individuals or communities in the northern Governorates and
by the State in the South. Rangelands are estimated to occupy seven million ha.
3.21      The natural wooded vegetation of Yemen comprises:  (a) maritime
mangroves (Avicennia and Rhizolhora spp.); (b) desert (below 200 mm annual
rainfall): Salvadora, Cadaba and Capparis spp., in the western half of Tihama,
and depauperate Acacia/Combretum vegetation in the eastern region; (c) savanna:
Acacia,  Commiphora,  Dobeva,  Combretum  and  Euphorbia  spp.; (d)  mountain:
JuniRerus, Olea, Dobeya, Zizy2hus and other Acacia spp.; and (e) wadi drainage
lines: many species outside their normal climatic range, such as, Acacia, Tamarix
and Salvadora spp.
3.22      There is no inventory of national forest resources and, although most
of the country is covered by a map system, the minimum density at which wooded
growth was included in different maps was inconsistent.   In July 1991, a
consulting firm financed under Japanese and U.K. grants administered by the World
Bank, began work to prepare 1:50,000 scale maps of the woodlands of Yemen, based
on satellite imagery. Some 150 maps would be produced by September, 1992; this
would allow for initiating a program for indigenous woodland management, to be
supported by the proposed project (paras. 4.06 and 4.18).
3.23      Tree Nurseries.  There are over 30 government tree nurseries in Yemen
(Annex 3, Table 1), some of which were established as forestry nurseries but have
since changed primarily to production of fruit trees. Since 1985, a forestry
project supported by Switzerland (para. 3.32) has employed a forest nursery
expert to train nursery headmen.  Technical capabilities are therefore good,
although costs are still generally high. Nurseries have traditionally been the
responsibility of MAWR or RDAs; however, two trial commercial units have been
established in Tihama by the Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCDs).
Only one of these nurseries is presently operating satisfactorily. Fruit tree
seedlings, in theory, are sold at cost, while forest seedlings are sold at
nominal cost. There has been no regular monitoring of seedling survival rates,
once planted.   It is clear that further extension support is necessary, in
particular to focus on the benefits of tree planting and wood production, before
nurseries can be expected to operate profitably and be privatized.   It is
difficult to specify the demand for trees by farmers and other individuals;
however, subject to easy accessibility and incentives, local opinion is that it



- 11 -
should be substantial. It is expected that once a comprehensive tree planting
program is ongoing, the farmers would begin to develop their own nurseries.
Watershed Nanagement
3.24      The accelerating degradation of forest, range and terraces in the
watershed basins of Yemen has serious economic, ecological, environmental and
social implications.   Most of the land areas in the highlands is steep and
rugged, and increasingly vulnerable to erosion due to changing social patterns,
inappropriate agricultural practices and removal of woody vegetation.   The
abandonment of terraces has not only resulted in the degradation of farms by
accelerated erosion, but has also caused serious damAge downstream. On account
of the lack of technical capabilities within Governaent, as well as limitations
on its available financial resources, the Government cannot support an extenrive
watershed rehabilitation program.   This situaticn necessitates developing
realistic, simple and participatory interventions focussed on a priority program
that is acceptable to the people, and is implemented to a large extent by the
local communities and land owners. There is growing awareness in the Government
of the seriousness of the problem, and the need for initiating programs aimed at
developing procedures for planning and community execution of appropriate actions
for rehabilitating the critical watersheds of the country.
Institutional Arranaements
3.25      As with irrigation,  the post-unity Government has given greater
prominence to forestry by creating a Directorate General of Forestry and
Rangelands (DGFR).  DGFR consists of five departments:  Natural Woodland and
Forest Survey; Rangeland Development; Afforestation and Decertification Control;
Forest Nurseries; and Services and Coordination (Chart 3). The Departments have
been part of DGFR for less than one year and, due to the limited provision so far
for institution building, there are considerable weaknesses.
3.26      The DGFR has a Director General, supported by nine graduates and six
technicians in the center. There are 14 graduates (many with agriculture, not
forestry, degrees), 28 technicians, and 5 secondary school qualified persons
working as technicians in the regions; these include five graduates and three
technicians at Al Kod, who are principally involved in forest research.  In
addition, there are four graduates and four technicians at AREA (Dhamar and
Taiz). Training for forestry staff has involved two-three years of overseas
training organized through aid* agencies.   Forestry field operations have
traditionally depended on RDAs' extension services.   The number of field
extension agents varies between Governorates (Annex 3, Table 2). Despite the
assistance of various forestry advisors, development of specialist extension
services and forestry extension messages has been neglected in Yemen.
3.27      A forest policy for North Yemen was accepted in April 1989.   It
emphasizes  conservation  and expansion  of green  spaces,  encouragement  of
reforestation by the people, passage of forest legislation, prevention of
decertification and management of natural woodlands, integration of forestry in
information programs,  strengthening of forest extension,  and provision of
alternatives to fuelwood for cooking and heating. The implementation of this
policy requires strengthened forestry institutions. Forest legislation, a draft
of which was commented upon by IDA, has been approved by the Council of Ministers
and has been submitted to Parliament for enactment.   The draft document is
relatively simple: it specifies state, community and private forests and provides
guidance on the management of state forests.



- 12 -
3.28      Government's strategy for forest development has been to provide a
source of tree seedlings by establishing forest nurseries in strategic locations.
Forest seedlings are provided to farmers for planting on their own land, and to
LCCDs, the army and youth groups for planting in public places. Most organized
tree planting in Yemen has been along roads, in towns and amenity areas and has
been carried out by cooperatives (South) or LCCDs (North).   The latter were
funded by the Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative Development
(CLCCD), which has an annual budget of YRls 200 million. It is estimated that
less than 5 percent of these funds have been devoted to forestry development.
The existing forestry nurseries could produce several million seedlings each
year, but in the absence of incentives, subject matter specialists (SMS) for
forestry, and concerted extension efforts, there has been little focus on wood
production. However, in the last three years, production and private sector
planting of fruit trees has increased significantly.
3.29      Involvement of Women.  Women are directly concerned with forestry in
Yemen, particularly in the context of planting trees and being the principal
collectors of wood, which is the main source of domestic energy in rural areas.
Under the proposed project, women's activities would consequently be important,
and their active involvement would be achieved through extension activities, a
close linkage between the forestry and watershed management activities and the
already existing sections within most RDAs responsible for women's development.
3.30      Bilateral aid groiects in forestry have made useful contributions to
forestry in Yemen. The German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) forestry
project at Al Haraz (1980-86) comprised experimental afforestation of abandoned
terraces, species  trials,  training and forestry education.    Two projects
supported by Dutch bilateral aid, namely, the Rada'a Integrated Rural Development
Project (IRDP) and the Range and Livestock Improvement Project (RLIP) at Dhamar,
have included components for the management of marginal land.   The latter
project, which ended in December 1989, made numerous contributions to range
management and natural vegetation surveys and initiated a tree planting program.
3.31      Under the ODA-supported Dhamar Agriculture and Forestry Research
Development Project (DAFRD), forestry research in northern Yemen actually began
in 1980, which was subsequently extended under the British-Yemeni Forestry
Research and Development Project (BYFRD) in 1987, to cover forestry research and
operations and extension. BYFRD, which ended in 1991, established two forest
research nurseries at Taiz and Dhamar;   forestry research focussed on land
rehabilitation, sand dune stabilization, species and provenance trials, agro-
forestry, conservation of species and areas, and seed collection.
3.32      A Swiss-financed (FAO executed) forestry project commenced in mid-1985,
which focussed principally on institution building.   The project, which will
continue to 1993, has financed the training of all Yemeni forestry graduates and
technicians since 1985, and the establishment of twelve forest nurseries. It has
financed technical consultants in, among others, forest policy and legislation,
nurseries, charcoal production, local stoves, forest inventory, forest
management,  and monitoring and evaluation.   A full-time Extension Adviser
organized courses and introduced the use of audio-visual equipment; in addition,
the project has initiated the management of some 2,000 ha of natural woodland.
3.33      Socio-economic work done under BYFRD has highlighted some key pointers
for promoting forestry development in Yemen. Among these are that: (i) there
is considerable potential for agro-forestry; however, in view of the competition
for scarce water resources, strong extension efforts are necessary to convince



- 13 -
farmers of its benefits; (ii) men value trees if they produce cash income, while
women view them in the context of their practical uses; and (iii) relatively
better-off farmers are more willing to take the risk of experimentation.
Overall, the findings point towards the need for increasing farmers' awareness
of the benefits, both productive and protective, of planting trees.
3.34      The Agricultural Research and Extension Authority (AREA), headqutartered
in Dhamar, has regional research centers at Surdud, El Kod, and Seiyun, and is
in the process of establishing further centers at Ma,ib and Amran.   Sana'a
University has a Faculty of Science, comprising Zoology, Botany and marine
Departments. The University introduced an agricultural degree course in 1982,
and it has included forestry in the penultimate and final years.  University
field work is restricted by shortage of funds.
Forest Nanagement and Utilization
3.35      Due to the evolutionary state of the forestry department, there has
been no organized forest management; rural communities have traditionally
retained a pro;ortion of indigenous trees in their cultivation areas to provide
shade and a source of fuelwood and fodder. Similarly, fuelwood collection was
traditionally restricted to dead btanches of trees collected.from the ground.
These practices are disappearing as a result of increasing population pressure
and rising fuelwood prices.
3.36      Yemeni woodland is still the country's sole source of fuelwood.  The
Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESHAP) report
(1991), based on household fuelwood studies (1988), estimates that fuelwood
provides some 90 percent of energy used by Yemeni residences in northern Yemen,
and annual consumption was about 6.0 million m3.  If this rate of cutting
continues, it could result in the country becoming virtually treeless by the end
of the century. Exploitation of oil and gas reserves in Yemen should facilitate
the transition from fuelwood to bottled gas and kerosene for cooking. However,
it is anticipated that at least 50 percent of the population will continue to
rely on fuelwood whilst it is still available for collection. Recognizing the
seriousness of the situation, and the need to deal with the problem from both a
supply and demand management perspective, which necessitates a multi-sectoral
approach, IDA proposed during negotiations that the Government should review the
steps being taken by the various agencies involved to implement the strategy
proposed in the ESMAP report, which has three core elements: improvement of
woodfuel management, accelerated interfuel substitution to displace wood with
LPG, and supply of electricity. The forestry component of the proposed project
is specifically designed to initiate a program for implementing the first element
of the ESMAP strategy. During the proposed mid-term review of this project, the
status of actions being taken by the Government to address the overall problem
would also be reviewed (para. 6.17).
Constraints and Priorities
3.37      Sand encroachment on agricultural areas in the south (around Aden),
west (especially Wadi Mawr and the southern Tihama) and east (especially around
Marib and Wadi Jawf) probably represents the most immediate, serious
environmental losses in Yemen at present. Initial results of action to restrict
sand movement by agro-forestry and raise agricultural productivity in the Wadi
Rima/Zabid area of Tihama by farm windbreaks have been very encouraging.
Reversing the degradation of woody biomass can only be achieved through a
strategy of afforestation and management of existing woodland cover.



- 14 -
3.38      Based on the above review,  a priority forestry development and
watershed management program would be based on the following actions:   (a) a
firm commitment by Government to implement the national forest policy, together
with a program for streingthening forestry institutions; (b) acceptance of a
program of maritime sand dune fixation by shelter belts and windbreaks, including
a program for continental dune fixation in priority areas; (c) identification of
priority areas of indigenous woodland, for initiating a program of natural
woodland management; (d) intensification of efforts to increase public awareness
at all levels of the value of trees and forests and to promote public tree
planting, with particular reference to creation of subject matter specialists in
extension and more effort in getting greater women involvement in forestry
activities; and (e) initiation of watershed management in priority areas. The
Government is strongly committed to technically strengthening its forestry
program, and has already initiated action on this program; the project would
support its further implementation.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives and Strategy
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to strengthen sustainable
agriculture and assist in better managing water resources through: (i)
institutional and technical developments in irrigation and forestry; (ii)
initiating a program of water use monitoring and regulation in the agriculture
sector; (iii) improving the efficiency and water management of controlled and
small-scale spate irrigated agriculture; (i-;' conserving key indigenous woodland
areas, accelerating tree planting, extending soil and water conservation; and (v)
through pilot actions, help in establishing an approach for watershed management,
including rehabilitation of abandoned terraces.
4.02      In order to achieve the above objectives, the underlying strategy of
the project for the water resources sector would be to support actio..s
complementary to ongoing water resource planning activities, and setting up a
system for controlling and regulating water exploitation in the agricultural
sector.    This  would be  achieved  through a  combination  of  institutional
strengthening, improved water resource monitoring, enacting legislative measures
for which Government has already initiated the process, preparation of specific
basin plans for water use in agriculture, and the initiation of key measures for
regulating and corntrolling the further drilling of wells. These measures would
be complemented by project actions for improving the efficiency of water
conveyance from existing wells and for more efficient on-farm water use.
4.03      Given  the limited attention paid to forestry  in the past,  the
objectives of the project in the forestry sector are deliberately modest. The
prevailing weaknesses point to the need for first technically strengthening the
forestry institutions as a pre-condition for implementing a sustainable, long-
term program; the proposed project would be a first step towards implementing
such a program.    Consequently,  the project woule focus on strengthening
institutions and developing a cadre of skilled forestry technicians. This would
be complemented by supporting and technically strengthening ongoing nursery and
extension activities, promoting woody biomass production, and pilot activities
for soil and watershed conservation. Implementation would involve participation
by local communities, and in particular rural women. Given the importance of
training for achieving overall project objectives, assurances were obtained



15 -
during negotiations that all project trainees would be assigned to designated
positions prior to receiving training, and each trainee would be required to
complete a stipulated number of years of service in such assignment upon
completion of training [para. 8.01(ii)I.
B. Project Area
4.04      The project would be implemented on a nationwide basis.  However, for
the proposed physical developments, the project would exclude areas where new
projects have recently been initiated (Wadi Hadramawt III project, as well as the
two IDA-financed projects for Al Jawf and Marib, which have recently been
restructured). In addition, the project would exclude sand dune stabilization
and forestry activities in the Tihama, as support for these is proposed under an
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) project. Accordingly, the
proposed project area (Map, IBRD 23186) can be divided into three major zones in
the North: the tropical Tihama Region, the subtropical Southern Uplands, and the
subtropical to temperate Northern and Central Highlands.   In the South, the
project areas encompass the important agricultural zones in the Governorates of
Lahej and Abyan, and the western part of the Shabwah "overnorate.
4.05      Project Arc:: for  Irrigation  Development.    Project  actions  for
groundwater irrigation development would be dispersed within the project areas
to ensure wide demonstration; these would include areas of rapidly declining
groundwater table and/or worsening irrigation water quality.   Farms to be
supported under the project would typically have an actual irrigatid area of 3 ha
In the Central and Northern Highlands, 9 ha in the Tihama, and only 1.2 ha in the
overpopulated Southern Uplands;   in the southern Governorates, the irrigated
areas per farm typically average around 4 ha (Autnex 1, Table 1).  Given the
prevailing diversity, a wide range of crops can be grown in the project areas,
ranging from tropical in the lower elevstions to temperate crops in the higher
areas. Spate irrigation improvements would principally take place within the
deltas of Tuban (Lahej) and of Abyan, formed by the lower reaches of Wadis Bana
and Hassan, which are the two largest agricultural areas of the South; and in
seven main wadis in western Shabwah.   In the spate irrigated areas, forage
sorghum is the predominant crop; limited bulrush millet is also grown in
association with sorghum.
4.06      Prolect Area for ForestrX Development.  The emphasis of the forestry
development components is on institution building, including extension for
promoting tree planting, thereby strengthening technical forestry capabilities
throughout Yemen. The sand fixation and flood control component would be located
in the southern part of the country (within Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah). Through
experimental planting, the project would explore the use of forestry as a
complementary activity to agriculture (agro-forestry), for increasing forestry
awareness, and reinforcing soil conservation and decertification control.
Indigenous woodland management would emphasize priority locations as identified
from the woodland maps (para. 3.22), in consultation with RDAs, LCCDs and private
landowners. The pilot component for watershed management would be implemented
within two river basins in the North - Wadi Rima in the Central Highlands and
Wadi Mawr (within which, the sub-basin of Wadi Sharis would be targeted) in the
Northern Highlands.   Both sites are geographically well-located to enable
extension of results to other basins in the country. The component for terrace
stabilization would be implemented in a pilot area within the Al Mahweet
Governorate, with a view to extending the results to other parts of the country.



- 16 -
C. Prolect Descriptlon
4.07      The project, to be implemented over a period of six years, would
constitute the following four components: (i) technical developments in
irrigation; (ii) technical developments in forestry and land conservation; (iii)
institution strengthening of the MAWR agencies responsible for the water
resources sector and forestry; and (iv) pilot activities, including the
development of approaches for watershed management,   In support of these
components, which would be complemented by measures to -egulate and control water
use in the agriculture sector, the project would provide the following:
(i)  Irrigation Development.  Supply and installation of groundwater
conveyance pipes to improve the efficiency of water distributj.Ln
from existing tubewells; supply and installation of equipment for
establishing improved irrigation demonstration units of 1 ha each
on farmers' fields; gabion baskets and other materials for
improving existing traditional spate schemes; and equipment,
vehicles and staff allowances for implementation units in the
regional agencies.
(ii) Forestry Development. Expatriate technical assistance, training,
equipment, vehicles, materials and staff allowances for initiating
a program of indigenous woodland management and rehabilitation,
upgrading the network of tree nurseries, sand dune fixation,
coastal sand stabilization, and flood control.
(iii)  Institution  Strengthening.    Expatriate  technical  assistance,
training in key technical fields, facilities, equipment, vehicles
and staff allowances for central and regional agencies for
strengthening the respective Directorates General, establishing a
system of water monitoring and regulating its use in irrigated
agriculture,   and  strengthening  technical   capabilities   in
irrigation agronomy, engineering and forestry.
(iv)  Pilot Activities.    Training,  technical assistance,  material,
equipment and vehicles for initiating the survey and planning, and
executing pilot programs in watershed management and   terrace
stabilization, and investigating the possibilities for recycling
urban waste water for crop production, and for using saline water
for irrigation.
D. Detaile4 Features
Irri&at ion Development
4.08      Improved Groundwater Irrigation Conveyance System. The project would
provide for the supply and installation of PVC and galvanized iron (GI) buried
pipes to improve water distribution from existing tubewells over a total area of
about 14,350 hectares (ha). Total lengths of pipes to be provided under the
project sre based on an average of 130m of 4" and 3" PVC pipes per hectare, 90m
of 3" G1 pipes, and an average of two hydrants per hectare. While demand for the
pipe system is unlikely to be a limiting factor, the emphasis of the project
would be on initiating the activity in areas where groundwater tables have been
declining rapidly. The activity would also need to be geographically dispersed
to ensure the demonstration effect in different parts of the country. Annex 1,



- 17 -
Table 1 shows the number of farms to benefit from this development, with areas
in each region based on respective average farm sizes. The criteria set out in
Annex 1, Table 2 would be used in selecting the benefiting farmers, who are
expected to pay fully for the conveyance system and associated works.
4.09.     Pilot Improved Irritation Systems. The project would provide equipment
and materials necessary for introducing farmers to improved irrigation
application technologies, and to demonstrate the potential of water savings and
increased production per unit of water.   The project would provide for
establishing about 220 one-hectare installations to demonstrate drip, bubbler or
sprinkler irrigation systems; demonstrations on the use of plastic tunncls for
growing vegetables would also be established. The systems would be set up on
farms equipped with the piped distribution system, and be distributed as follows:
40 each in the Northern, Western (Tihama), Central Highlands and Southern Upland
Regions, and 20 each in the Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates. Technical
assistance (see para. 4.25) would be provided to ensure that the proposed
demonstration p'ots are correctly designed and laid out, as well as the
capability for monitoring and technical backstopping is set up.
4.10      Sgate Irrigation Improvement. The project would provide gabion baskets
and other materials for the selective improvement of traditional spate schemes
within identified wadis as shown in Annex 1, Table 3, providing benefits for an
estimated 2,400 ha of existing farm area. The works would include improved spate
diversion works at 15 locations, in addition to canal control structures and bank
protectio" works; the Bana-Hassan diversion channel would be constructed to
divert flood discharges in excess of 350 m3/s in Wadi Bana which are presently
lost to the sea. Other than the Bana-Hassan diversion works, most of the works
are small in scale and based on improved traditional technologies. The project
would also provide gabion baskets and other mscerials for demonstrating improved
spate irrigation methods at 8 locations in identified wadis within the four RDAs.
In all cases, the local benefiting communities would provide the labor for
carrying out the proposed works and pay the cost of machinery operations.
4.11      Imulementation Units (IU).  The project would provide equipment and
vehicles for establishing implementation units (IUs) within the existing four
RDAs, for planning and organizing the installat:on of the proposed groundwater
conveyance systems, the pilot irrigation systems .nd the spate works. In Lahej,
Abyan and Shabwah the project would provide for strengthening the three existing
Irrigation Maintenance Units in the respective Departments of Irrigation, which
are seriously under-equipped to provide technical and maintenance support. These
would form the IUs in these Governorates.  Essentially, the IUs would be an
integral part of existing institutions; the project would provide for equipment,
vehicles and spare parts, to enable them to better support irrigated agriculture
as a whole, and to provide the necessary support for implementing the groundwater
and spate components of the project.   The project would also provide for
selective rehabilitation and construction of small offices, staff houses and
stores for the lUs.   Details of civil works, machinery and equipment, and
vehicles to be-provided under project are summarized in Annex 1, Table 4.
Vater Resources Nanement
4.12      Suport for MAWR Water Resources Sector.  The Jirectorates General of
the Water Resources Sector (WRS) of MAWR need to be strengthened, if they are to
provide a technical planning and back-up function. The WRS is expected to play
an important role in planning, coordinating and regulating the agricultural
sector water resource programs, and undertake a water monitoring program; it



- i8 -
would be responsible for basin planning, establishing norms for and regulating
new irrigation developments, and for licensing and monitoring the activities of
drilling rigs; in addition, it would perform a monitoring and coordinating role
for implementation of the proposed project as far as the irrigation related
components are concerned.  To be able to ef.ectively carry out these functions,
the structure and staffing of the WRS needs to be rationalized and strengthened.
Accordingly, it is proposed that short term technical assistance would be
financed from the existing IDA-supported CHADP (Cr. 1453-YAR) to undertake a
study to assist in carrying out this task [para. 4.28(i)]; it would complement
the work proposed to be carried out under the ASMSP, which is intended to review
the activities of the Ministry as a whole.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the study would be completed by October 31, 1992, and that
implementation of the proposals would be initiated, after taking into account
IDA's comments, soon thereafter and completed by March 31, 1993 [para.
8.01(iii)1.   In addition,  the project would provide technical and office
equipment, 15 vehicles, training in various aspects of water and soil resources
management, monitoring and planning (see Annex 4, Table 1) and technical
assistance (see para. 4.25).
4.13      Water Monitoring Units.  A Central Water Monitoring Unit would be
established in the DGWR, and field water monitoring units (WMUs) would be
attached to the regional agencies to monitor rainfall, runoff, agro-
meteorologlcal data, wadi flows, wadi seepage losses and irrigation abstractions,
areas irrigated and other hydrological data for each wadi. The units will also
monitor the groundwater conditions in a selected number of tubewells in each
area, including annual abstraction rates.   Provision for the WMUs under the
project would include 10 vehicles and 6 motorcycles, equipment, staff training
and for the cost of drilling 25 groundwater monitoring wells in areas where
existing wells are either unsuitable or not available for monitoring purposes.
4.14      Improved Irritation Practices.  The initiatives proposed under the
project for improving irrigation from groundwater would need to be complemented
by a strengthened program for improved on-farm water management; support provided
under this project, aimed at establishing irrigation agronomy as a key discipline
in the extension services, would complement the provisions for upgrading research
and extension activities in Yemen under the. ASMSP. Accordingly, the project
would provlde for the overseas training of 8 irrigation engineers and 10 Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs) in irrigation agronomy (to M.Sc. or post-graduate
diploma level), who would be assigned to the regional agencies. In addition,
local training would be provided to the identified SMSs and selected extension
agents at the Mational Agriculture Training Center, in cooperation with the
Irrigation Training Institute at Aden. Suitable candidates for the SMS posts
exist within MAWR; assurances were obtained during negotiations that at least 7
SMSs would be appointed by June 30, 1992, and a further 3 would be appointed by
June 30, 1993 [para. 8.01(iv)]. The project would provide for 19 staff-months
of technical assistance input (14 s/m of an Irrigation Agronomist spread over 5
years, 3 s/m of Curriculum Development Expert in the field of irrigation
agronomy, and 2 s/m of a Farm Management Expert to gulde local staff in the
preparation of a farm management handbook). The project would also provide for
7 vehicles, and small equipment and materials to support the proposed activities.
4.15      Institution Strenathening: The project would provide for strengthening
DGFR, both in its five central departments and in establishing a Department of
Watershed Management, as well as the regional agencies that administer the



- 19 -
regional  forestry  activities.    Project  provisions  would  include  office
accommodation in Sana'a (300m2) for the Watershed Management and the Wildlife
Officers, their technicians and one of the two cartographers (the second would
be based at Taiz), and allowances for the mangrove technician, who would be based
at Al Luhaya, and one secretary. A seed store (9 m2) at constant temperature
would be provided for imported seed, in addition to office equipment for the
center, library material and mapping equipment for the cartographer. Vehicles
would be provided for the central personnel (watershed and wildlife officers),
together with 10 pick-ups for regional graduates and 18 motorcycles for
technicians.
4.16      Overseas training in forestry would be provided mainly for regional
staff, and comprises the training of 15 B.Sc. (Agriculture) graduates in
obtaining M.Sc. (Forestry) degrees and two-year forestry training for 15
technicians. The two cartographers would each go on a nine-month training course
following initial orientation at the Survey of Yemen; a nursery technician from
the South Governorate would receive one-month training in nursery techniques.
Four staff-months of study tours would be provided for forest researchers at Al
Kod, and eight staff-months for the SMSs involved in encouraging women
participation in forestry activities (Annex 4, Table 2).  In addition, the
project would provide technical assistance as detailed in Annex 6.
4.17      Sand Dune Fixation and Flood Control:  The project would provide for
pilot conservation work in foredune construction (4 x 200 m long), coastal
shelterbelts (4 units totalling 16 ha), coastal sand dune stabilization and dune
stabilization further inland (40 ha), establishing a shelterbelt along Wadi Kabir
(35 ha), tree planting along roadsides (10 km), stabilization of water
distribution canals (10 km), flood protection over 10 km of wadi bank, and the
management of a degraded catchment in Wadi Hashimia.  In addition, three 4WD
vehicles would be provided for the three principal units involved in planting
operations (in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah), equipment for three forest nurseries
(final capacity of 175,000 plants/year), planting and silvicultural equipment,
as well as 6 s/mi of TA on sand dune stabilization. For the forestry research
group at Al Kod, the project would provide a pick-up truck, aerial photo material
for mapping sand movement and laboratory equipment.
4.18      Indinenous Woodland Management:  Under this component, a unit of DGFR,
based in Taiz, would examine the maps produced of natural woodlands in Yemen
(para. 3.22) and, following discussion with the landowners and LCCDs, as well as
undertaking inventories, would prepare brief management plans for the areas. The
project would provide office accommodation (12m2) for the mapping room for the
cartographer, office (furnishings, computer and software) and other equipment
(inventory, mapping and camping), a vehicle for the inventory team and allowances
for staff. Technical assistance would comprise a Woodland Manager to direct the
graduate and technician team for three years, followed by three years of a UN
Volunteer, with a six-month overlap between the two (Annex 6).
4.19      Forest Nurseries  and Public Tree Planting:   The project would
strengthen and expand the existing forest nurseries that comprise the Yemen
national network, with a view to increasing considerably the number of seedlings
planted by the public each year, by increasing and improving extension work in
forestry, especially among women (para. 4.20).. Two large nurseries would be
established (in Hajjah and Madinet Al-Shark, capable of producing 250,000
seedlings per year) in the upper catchment of Wadi Mawr (Wadi Shiras) and Wadi
Rima primarily for water catchment management; provision is also made for
equipping two new LCCD nurseries. Funds would be included for the incremental



- 20 -
polyethylene bag requirements for existing nurseries and foreign tree seed. A
6-ton truck would be provided for each of the four project regions (Northern,
Central, Southern Uplands and the South) for moving plants to areas where they
are needed.   There would be one-month local training for the four forest
nurserymen in the South at Al Kod and for two-month for the six technicians also
in the South, at the Giar Agricultural Training Center.
4.20      Eight Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) in forestry would be appointed
and trained under the project - four male and four female graduates for the four
project regions (Northern, Central, Southern Uplands and the South). Funds would
be provided for equipment, vehicles and for film and poster production in each
region, and for training courses (Annex 4, Table 2) for extensionists (15
extensionists/course), community developers (10 developers/course) and regional
officers (7 leaders/course).   Extension activities would target rural women,
using existing women extension services in RDAs; for this purpose a technical
assistance consultant experienced in this work would be provided, who will
establish the program and return one year later to review programs and make new
proposals, as necessary.  The project would also provide for promoting agro-
forestry around households and farms, to reduce the time-consuming activity of
fuelwood coliection.
Watershed Nanagement and Terrace Stabilization
4.21      The project would, on a pilot scale, develop an integrated approach for
future replication in watershed management and terrace rehabilitation,
emphasizing self-help operation by farmers.   Technical assistance would be
provided under the project to prepare plans of work for both operations. For the
pilot watershed management component, a watershed engineer and local surveyor
would be recruited in year one of the project to make a detailed survey of the
wadi reaches in Wadi Shiras (15 km) and Wadi Rima (20 km) for wadi retraining.
The reports would provide the basis for preparing a rehabilitation plan for the
pilot areas.   The Chief Technical Coordinator (CTC) (20 staff-months) would
prepare and implement the rehabilitation plans, supported by a UN Volunteer (10
staff-months); provision is made for six staff-months of short-term consultancies
to support the activity.   For terrace rehabilitation, a consultant would. be
recruited to examine aerial photos of the Al Mahweet Governorate (using DGFR's
stereoscopic equipment), undertake ground surveys and question local people about
the abandonment and means of rehabilitating the terraces in these areas. Based
on these findings, the consultant would then prepare a program of work and a
rehabilitation plan for identified areas.  These would be implemented by the
farmers, supported by a team of one graduate forester and two technicians. For
this purpose the project would provide funds for aerial photography in Al Mahweet
Governorate and tree seedlings and vetiver slips.
4.22      Two multi-disciplinary teams (comprising a graduate civil engineer,
forester, agriculturist and sociologist, who are already residing in the two
areas) would be established for the pilot watershed component, for surveying,
planning and organizing the implementation of measures to reduce soil erosion,
floods and river sedimentation and improve agricultural production in these
areas.   Assurances were obtained during negotiations  that these would be
established by September 30, 1992 [para. 8.01(v)]. An office-residence-store
complex would be constructed in both areas, and the project would provide gabion
baskets and filter cloths for wadi training, bubbler and drip irrigation systems,
and hydrometric and sedimentation measuring stations. The project would also
provide funds for six M.Sc. students from the Universities of Sana'a or Aden to



- 21 -
undertake socio-economic, water resource engineering and other studies for two
years.
Pilot Activities
4.23      Use of Saline Water for Irritation.   The project would finance 10
staff-months of consultant input and 2 one-hectare pilot demonstrations in
northern Tihama, for assessing the potential for using water with different
levels of salinity in irrigated agriculture. The objective would be to assess
this potential and to identify the practices and precautions which need to be
adopted to safeguard against possible hazards which may result (Annex 5).
4.24      Reuse of Urban Waste Water for Irrigation.  The project would finance
six staff-months of consultant input in the field of waste water reuse, in order
to undertake a study to assess the potential of this source of water for
irrigating selected agricultural crops and for forestry. The study, which would
be a follow-up on a general study done in 1990, would identify and test ways to
utilize the effluent flows from Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah, which have been
estimated to total about 28,000 m3/day. The consultant would prepare an analysis
for the potential for such reuse, taking into consideration the related
environmental implications, as well as preliminary designs and cost estimates for
one scheme for presentation to prospective donors for financing (Annex 5).
Summary of Technical Assistance
4.25      Given that the project is aimed at innovative developments for soil and
water conservation, and in establishing a meaningful forestry program where key
weaknesses presently exist in the technical capabilities of MAWR, there will be
need for technical assistance personnel to support the development initiatives
prol.osed under the project. The total technical assistance proposed under the
project is summarized in Annex 6; detailed terms of reference for the proposed
consultants have been agreed with the relevant agencies of MAWR.  This would
primarily consist of 333 staff months (s/m) of senior expatriate experts. In
addition, 240 s/m of junior experts/UN Volunteers (UNVs) are proposed to support
MAWR in identified areas during the period when existing staff would be
undergoing training and developing technical skills. The experts are needed to
support MAWR in project implementation and introducing the new irrigation
technologies (72 s/m of expatriates and 48 s/m of UNVs), support DGWR in water
monitoring and establishing a system of basin planning for agriculture (81 s/m
of expatriates and 48 s/m of UNVs), technically supporting the Directorate
General of Irrigation (15 s/m), strengthening technical capabilities in
irrigation agronomy (19 s/m), forestry activities (130 s/m of expatriates and 144
s/m of UNVs to strengthen the technical capabilities of DGFR, involvement of
women in forestry activities, watershed management and terrace stabilization,
sand dune fixation), and for the pilot studies (16 s/m).  In addition, 12 s/m of
TA is proposed for financing from the ongoing IDA-supported CHADP (Cr. 1453-YAR).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the following schedule would
be met in making the appointments of key experts; the Chief Technical Adviser
(CTA) for the Water Resources Sector by March 31, 1993, Water Resources
Specialist by December 31, 1992, the Senior Irrigation Engineer by September 30,
1993, the CTA for the Forestry Sector by June 30, 1993,the Woodland Management
Expert by January 31, 1993, and the Chief Technical Coordinator for the Pilot
Watershed component by June 30, 1993 (para. 8.01(vi)].



- 22 -
E. Environmental Imnact
4.26      The project (assigned environmental assessment category "C") would, to
varying degrees, have a positive impact on the principal environmental problems
faced in the agricultural sector (para. 2.05). Through both the institution-
strengthening measures and technical developments, the project would initiate a
program of sustainable land and water conservation.   The impact on land
conservation would be generated through forestry developments designed to: (i)
promote tree planting; (ii) control sand encroachment; and (iii) initiate pilot
actions for developing an integrated strategy for watershed management and
terrace  stabilization.    Water  conservation would  result  from  irrigation
developments: (i) water losses would be reduced in project areas of controlled
irrigation; and (ii) aquifer recharge would be enhanced by installation of
appropriate control structures in spate-irrigated areas.   In addition, the
project would initiate a program for better monitoring and regulating groundwater
utilization, particularly in the agriculture sector, with a view to better
managing this valuable resource.  Further activities - in the areas of woody
biomass and indigenous fauna and flora (conservation of mangroves, indigenous
woodlands and wildlife) - would contribute to preserving the natural resources
in Yemlen.
F. Status of Prolect PreRaration
4.27      Arrangements for finalizing the details of proposed project actions are
as follows:
(a)  For irriaation and forestry developments:   priority sites for
irrigation development (Annex 1) have been identified and detailed
terms of reference have been prepared for precise farm
identification which would be carried out by field agencies
concerned.   Technical irrigation developments have been designed
based on the experience of an FAO-assisted pilot project ln Zabid
(1985), and an ongoing UNDP/FAO project in Sana'a Governorate.
Similarly, technical forestry developments are based on experiences
gained under the Swiss/FAO projects and from sand dune stabilization
work in other IDA-financed projects.
(b) For civil works: the main construction would involve offices and
stores, in addition to housing for SMSs and technical units. These
would be similar to existing structures at key extension block
centers for which plans already exist.
(c) For training and recruitment of engineers: recent sector work and
preparation reports have provided the basis for agreeing upon a
detailed training program to be financed by the project. Yemenis
required for irrigation developments would mostly be reassigned from
within the WRS, whereas expanding forestry operations in the context
of the enlarged DGFR would require some additional personnel. These
would be obtained from returning trainees from post-graduate studies
or by reassigning existing MAWR staff.
(d)  Tender  documents.    The  procurement  documents  for  equIpment,
materials and vehicles required for the first year of the project
are being prepared, and would be tendered soon after Board



- 23 -
Presentation, to enable award of contracts soon after Effectiveness.
The appraisal mission has quantified, in detail, the requirements
for goods, such as gabion baskets, conveyance pipes and irrigation
equipment, which have been provided to the WRS, and which would form
the basis for preparing tender documents.
4.28     In addition to the above, Government has taken steps for inftiating the
following actions necessary for the effective start-up of project implementation;
these will be financed from the ongoing IDA-financed CHADP (Cr. 1453-YAR):
(i) Short-term technical assistance (4 s/m) for undertaking the proposed
study for the rationalization of the WRS of MAWR; the study would
also make proposals for determining the manner in which the WRAY
project and the TS would work through the WRS and the RDAs for
monitoring and collecting water resources data.
(ii) Short-term technical assistance (4 s/m), for defining and detailing
the design, scope and institutional arrangements for the Water
Monitoring System (para. 4.13) in conjunction with work being done
under the WRAY project, and for assisting MAWR in detailing the
institutional framework for initiating the proposed program for
groundwater monitoring, and control and regulation of new irrigation
developments.
(iii) Short-term technical assistance by an Irrigation Engineer (4 s/m)
would be provided, to support technical teams to be established in
the regional agencies (as the nucleus for the IUs) in PVC pipe system
layout and design aspects, initiating survey work, and in drawing up
initial procurement documents. Prior, to negotiations, the Government
established five technical teams for the groundwater component, and
one for the spate component in order to commence initial work for
Implementing these components.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIG
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$47.6 million equivalent, which
include US$3.8 million for physical contingencies and US$5.5 million for price
contingencies.  Total foreign exchange costs of the project are estimated at
approximately US$36.5 million, or 77 percent of total project costs. Goods and
services procured under IDA-assisted projects in Yemen are exempt from import
taxes and duties.
5.02      Unit cost estimates for civil and forestry works, equipment, vehicles
and materials are based on prices paid and-recent contracts awarded under ongoing
IDA projects, suppliers' quotes, or rates prevailing in mid-1991.   Physical
contingencies are applied at the rate of: 20 percent on buildings; 15 percent on
other civil works, forestry works and materials; 10 percent on equipment
(excluding irrigation equipment); and 5 percent on training.   No physical
contingency Is applied to irrigation equipment, vehicles, technical assistance
or recurrent costs. Price contingencies, which are applied to all costs except
staff allowances, are based on the assumption that changes in future ezchange
rates would maintain purchasing pover parity, and on projected local inflation



- 24 -
rates of 40 percent in 1991, 30 percent in 1992, 25 percent in 1993 and 20
percent per annum thereafter, and foreign inflation rate of 3.4 percent per
annum throughout the project life. The total cost estimates are summarized in
Table 5.1 below and detailed in Annex 7, Tables 1-3.
Table 5.1: PROJECT COSTSA'
Foreign   Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Base Costs
---------(US  N)------   --------(X)---------
Irrigation
Institution Strengthening        0.9      4.1     5.0       82         13
Technical Developments
Spate Irrigation               1.9      2.6     4.5       58         12
Groundwater Irrigation         1.6    12.7    14.3        89         37
Agricultural Development       0.4      0.9     1.3       69           3
Implementation Units                    2.7    4.0        68         10
Subtotal                   6.1    23.0    29.1       80          76
Forestry and Land Conservation
Institution Strengthening        0.4      3.1     3.5       89           9
Technical Developments
Land ConservaL!.on and
Afforestation                1.4      2.0     3.4       59          9
Watershed Management           0.7      1.6     2.3       70          6
Subtotal                   2.5      6.7     9.2      73          24
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS          8.6    29.7    38.3        77        100
Physical Contingencies        0.9      2.9     3.8       76         10
Price Contingencies           1.6      3.9     5.5       71         14
TOTAL PROJECT COSTSY         11.1    36.5    47.6        77        124
2/  Costs are exclusive of duties and taxes, from which the project is exempt.
2/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
B. Financine Plan
5.03      The total project cost of US$47.6 millJJo  equivalent would be financed
as follows: IDA would provide, on standard ten        credit of SDR 24.1 million
(US$32.8 million equivalent), corresponding to    *-rcent of total costs.  The
United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) is expected to provide a grant
totalling US$3.2 million equivalent; if this financing agreement is not signed
by December 31, 1993, IDA reserves the right to suspend disbursements.   The
direct contributions from benefiting farmers are estimated at US$3.1 million
equivalent.   The Government would contribute from its own resources US$8.3
million equivalent, which would totally cover the recurrent costs and 17 percent
of total costs. Costs of pre-effectiveness start-up activities (not more than
US$250,000 equivalent) would be financed from the ongoing CHADP (IDA credit 1453-
YAR). The proposed financing plan is as follows:



- 25 -
Tgble 5.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Percent of
Financing Source             Local   Foreign   Total    Total Costs
------- (US$ M) -------
Government                    5.6      2.7      8.3          17
IDA                           3.1     29.7     32.8          69
UNCDF                         0.1      3.1      3.2           7
Farmers' Direct
Contribution                 2.3      0.8      3.1           6
From IDA Cr. 1453-YAR         0.0      0.2     _0.2           1
Total         11.1     36.5      47.6        100
C. Procurement
5.04      Procedures  for  procurement  under  ongoing  projects  need  to  be
streamlined. In general, delays have arisen due to the protracted procedures and
heavy work load of the High Tender Board (HTB), as well as the inability of some
MAWR implementing agencies to prepare satisfactory bidding documents and bid
evaluation reports due to limitations of staff capabilities in this area. During
the appraisal of the IDA-financed Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM),
IDA assisted the Government in outlining measures for streamlining procurement
procedures and in developing the commercial aspects of bidding documents for the
procurement of goods and works through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
and Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), and consultant services.  The documents
developed, with suitable modifications, would also be used for the proposed
project; commercial aspects of the bidding documents were discussed and a format
was  agreed  during  negotiations.    To  avoid  delays  in  inter-ministerial
transactions, especially possiLle delays in processing the documents and award
proposals through the High Tender Board (HTB), a representative of the MAWR
implementing agency responsible for administering the proposed contract would be
invited to sit in the HTB meetings concerned with the contract. Arrangements are
being made to provide training in procurement administration to the key staff
members of the implementing agencies.
5.05      As detailed in the sections below, procurement of the components to be
financed by the proposed IDA credit of SDR 24.1 million (US$32.8 million
equivalent) would be carried out in accordance with the procedures outlined in
IDA's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1985). The IDA-financed consultants would
be recruited according to IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981). Component elements financed by UNCDF would be procured in accordance with
its regulations. Procurement arrangements for the proposed elements, including
those expected to be financed by IDA, are given below (Table 5.3).



- 26 -
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT PLAN
Procurement Method           Total
Project Element                   ICB     LCB     29h1=1    NILA       Cost
-(US$ Million)--------------
Civil Works                               1.59                          1.59
(1.20)                       (1.20)
Spate Irrigation/Bank
Protection Works                        0.48     3.58                4.06
Installation of Improved
Irrigation Systems                      0.16     2.08                2.24
(0.10)                       (0.10)
Forestry Works                            1.49     0.61                 2.10
(1.07)                       (1.07)
Equipment                       3.42               0.54                 3.96
(2.61)             (0.49)              (3.10)
Vehicles                         1.79                                  A'.79
(1.55)                                 (1.55)
Materials                       19.56              0.56                20.12
(16.24)             (0.52)             (16.76)
Training                                           4.75                4.75
(4.63)              (4.63)
Technical Assistance                               4.52                 4.52
(4.39)              (4.39)
Operating Costs                                               2.50      2.50
TOTAL                  24.77      3.72    16.64       2.50    47.63
(20.40)   (2.37)  (10.03)              (32.80)
J~./   Includes works to be implemented by local communities, as well as items to
be procured using direct contracting, international shopping and local
shopping procedures.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts to be financed by IDA, Costs
include contingencies.
5.06      Civil Works.  These include small offices, residential buildings and
stores. Since the construction works would be geographically dispersed, with the
volume of works involved at any one location likely to be small and to be
implemented in small parcels (less than US$250,000 per contract), the contracts
are unlikely to attract international firms, and consequently would not be
suitable for ICB.    Procurement would, accordingly, be carried out using LCB
procedures. While LCB procedures in Yemen are generally consistent with IDA
procurement guidelines, some inconsistencies exist, such as, the right of
administrative units to apportion bids, the rejecticn of low bids if prices are
higher than past purchases, etc. Assurauces were obtained during negotiations
that Government will revise its LCB procedures for the proposed project in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, and that the first bidding
documents under this category would be submitted to IDA for review and comments
[para. 8.01(vii)J.
5.07      Sgate irrigation works, including bank protection works would likewise
be of a small and scattered nature in the various wadis, and would be implemented
mainly by groups of benefiting farmers under the direction of the Implementation



- 27 -
Units; the only exception would be the Bana-Hassan diversion, procurement for
which would be implemented using LCB procedures.
5.08      The installation of the improved irrigation works would be finalized
by the respective Implementation Units, in collaboration with the benefiting
farmers. The civil works involved in digging the PVC pipe trenches are of a
small and dispersed nature and would be implemented by the farmers under the
direction of the Implementation Units. The project would supply to the farmers
the PVC pipes (para. 5.10) at a price which would fully recover costs, to be
agreed with IDA. The project provides some items of equipment which will enable
the Implementation Units to carry out part of the trench digging work for the
farmers (using force account) at a price to be agreed with them, in areas where
technically qualified local small contractors are not available. Installation
of boreholes for groundwater monitoring would be carried out by LCB procedures,
as they are small items of works scattered throughout the region, and likely to
be executed in small parcels during implementation, and consequently would not
be suitable for ICB.
5.09      Forestry Works.  Given the small scale of the works proposed, these
would largely be implemented using a combination of force account and resources
from local communities (through LCCDs and local cooperatives). Small items of
construction works for nurseries, such as, irrigation works, wells and pipe
systems, and for small flood protection works to support the sand fixation and
pilot watershed components would be implemented through local contractors
selected on the basis of LCB procedures.
5.10      Eguipment. Materials and Vehicles.  ICB procedures, in accordance with
IDA guidelines, would be used for the procurement of packages each with a value
above US$100,000 for: (a) materials for the irrigation systems, including PVC
pipes, gabions, filter cloth, advanced irrigation equipment; (b) water monitoring
equipment; and (c) equipment, vehicles and spare parts. These items represent
US$24.77 million or about 52 percent of the total project cost, and US$20.40
million or about 62 percent of amount to be financed by IDA. For spare parts and
items of a proprietary nature or where compatibility with existing equipment is
required, direct contracting will be applied in an aggregate, up to a maximum of
US$ 350,000. International shopping based on at least three price quotations and
from at least two countries would be used for items of small value and having an
estimated cost of up to $100,000 equivalent each. There would be an aggregate
limit on international shopping of US$500,000. Small items of goods or works
costing less than the equivalent of US$50,000 each can be procured following
local shopping procedures, based on at least three price quotations in accordance
with IDA guidelines.  There will be an aggregate limit on local shopping of
US$250,000.
5.11      All bidding packages for works, equipment, materials and vehicles
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more would be subject to prior IDA
review of procurement documentation; other contracts would be subject to ex-post
review after contract award. These limits would result in prior review of about
80 percent of total IDA financing and about 95 percent of IDA financing of
contract works by ICB and LCB covering some 30 contracts.
5.12      Cnsln.  IDA-financed consultants would be recruited according to
the IDA Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981). All documents relating
to procurement of consulting services to be financed from IDA Credit would be
subject to IDA's prior review.



- 28 -
D. Disbursement
5.13      Credit disbursements for agricultural projects in Yemen have been slow.
Discussions have been held between IDA and the Government within the context of
the Country Implementation Review in mid-1991, and a commitment has been obtained
that measures would be taken, particularly with regard to procurement, to improve
on the poor performance of the past. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 24.1 million
(US$32.8 million equivalent) would be disbursed over seven years. Disbursements
would be made in accordance with Guidelines for Withdrawal of Proceeds of IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (November 1985), and as shown in Table 5.4 below.
Table 5.4: DISBURSEMENT PLAN
Credit       % of Expenditures to be
Category                 Allocation    be Financed
(SDR '000)
1. Buildings                    900     90% of expenditures.
2. Equipment, Vehicles,      15,400     100% of foreign expenditures,
Materials for                        100% of local expenditures
Irrigation Works,                    (ex-factory), and 85% of local
Forestry, Public                     expenditures for other items
Information                          procured locally.
3. Technical Assistance       5,600     100% of foreign expenditures
and Training                          and 90% of local expenditures.
4. Unallocated                2,200
Total          24.100
The closing date of the proposed credit would be June 30, 1999. The estimated
project completion date would be December 31, 1998. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is summarized in Table 5.5 below (detailed in Annex 9).
Table 5.5: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year
1993   1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
----------------- (US$ Million)----------------
Annual               0.3    3.2      7.2    8.4    8.4    4.8    0.5
Cumulative           0.3    3.5    10.7   19.1   27.5   32.3   32.8
5.14      Special Account: To assist in project implementation, a Special Account
would be opened at a commercial bank approved by the Central Bank of Yemen; IDA
would make an initial deposit in SDR of US$500,000 equivalent, which is expected
to finance IDA's share of eligible expenditures over a period of four months.
The account would be denominated in U.S. dollars and replenished against
withdrawal applications  aggregating at least US$100,000  equivalent.   All
disbursements under the project would be made against standard documentation,
except for contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, which would be claimed under



- 29 -
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); disbursements against SOEs are estimated at
about 4 percent of the Credit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Special Account and SOEs would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA ((paras. 6.19 and 8.01 (xviii)].
VI. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Implementation
Institutional Arrangements
6.01      The Water Resources Sector (WRS) of MAWR would be responsible for
coordinating the water resource and irrigation related components of the project,
while the Directorate General for Forestry and Rangelands (DGFR) would be
responsible for coordinating the forestry components.   As a gondition of
negotiations a Project Management Unit (PMU) was established within WRS [para.
8.02(ii)], which would be responsible for coordinating the preparation of annual
work programs, progress reporting, procurements and disbursements, in addition
to the overall coordination and supervision of project implementation in
association with the field level implementation agencies. A Manager has been
nominated from the WRS, and a senior officer has been nominated by DGFR to
coordinate the forestry activities, working with the PMU. To further enhance the
management capability of the PMU, and at IDA's suggestion, the Government agreed
during negotiations to appoint a Director-General to the PMU. The PMU would have
a small supporting staff including an accountant, procurement officer and three
support staff. A Steering Committee has been established under the ASMSP, which
is responsible for coordinating the proposed series of sub-sector projects. The
Steering Committee presently includes the Minister, MAWR as Chairman, Deputy
Minister for Plant Production, the Director General of AREA, the heads of the
four RDAs, and a representative of the Ministry of Planning and Development. For
purposes of the proposed project, the composition of the Steering Committee would
be enlarged to include the Deputy Minister, WRS, and the Director General, DGFR,
and it would also become responsible for the Land and Water Conservation Project.
6.02      Implementation of physical developments in the regions would be the
responsibility of the field level agencies which include the four RDAs (TDA,
SRADP, CHADP and SSHARDA), and the MAWR offices responsible for irrigated
agriculture and forestry in the three Governorates of Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah.
The project would complement the extension and research activities provided for
under ASMSP, by emphasizing irrigation agronomy to improve on-farm water use
efficiency.   To ensure complementarity of actions, the extension activities
proposed would be coordinated by AREA, in association with the field level
agencies. In order to decentralize the management of project implementation, the
control over materials and equipment supplied under the project would be
delegated to the field level agencies. Procurement (based on detailed bills of
quantities prepared by the field agencies) would, however, be undertaken
centrally, by the PMU, to derive the benefits from bulking the orders from the
different implementing units. An annual work program would be drawn up and
approved by the Steering Committee each year, at least three months prior to the
commencement of the fiscal year; this would provide the basis for drawing up an
annual procurement plan.



- 30 -
Arrangements for Water Resources Plannine and Monitoring
6.03      A key objective of the project is to complement ongoing initiatives in
water resource planning and to establish a mechanism for regulating and
controlling its use.   In this regard, a clear distinction needs to be made
between the following two, closely interrelated aspects:
(i) National Water Resources Master Planning, which is of strategic
importance for the country as a whole, and has cross sectoral
implications in the context of planning/allocating overall
national water use; and
(ii)  Monitoring and regulation of, and control over water use by the
agricultural sector, which accounts for around 90 percent of the
annual consumption of the country's water resources.
6.04      The first of the above two aspects is presently being supported by the
UNDP-financed project for establishing the Technical Secretariat (TS) of the High
Water Council; and the Water Resources Assessment in Yemen (WRAY) project
supported by the Netherlands  (para. 3.04).   Assurances were obtained from
Government during negotiations that a Water Resources Strategy for Yemen would
be completed by June 30, 1993 [para. 8.01(viii)]. At the same time, Government
is aware of the need for rationalizing the currently dispersed institutional
responsibilities for planning, allocating and monitoring the water resources of
the country. Presently, both the WRAY project and the TS are using the RDAs on
an ad "o basis to assist them in monitoring griundwater and providing data.
However, this arrangement has not proved to be satisfactory. Through technical
assistance provided under the project, a mechanism would be drawn up and
established, to formalize this relationship through the WRS of MAWR, with each
RDA, whereby the latter would be responsible for collecting :he necessary data
and making it available to WRAY and TS. The processed data would provide the
basis for WRS and the RDAs to plan for, monitor and regulate new irrigation
developments. Government is also considering the possibility of setting up a
National Authority for Water Resources. However, various considerations need to
be taken into account in deciding the structure, responsibilities, staffing and
location within the Government structure of such an Authority. In this regard,
a study would be necessary to prepare detailed proposals, which should provide
the basis for taking a decision.
6.05      The second aspect  i.e., regulation and control of water use by the
agricultural sector, is of significant importance to and the primary focus of the
project, and should be addressed concurrently and in complementarity with the
above initiatives. The Government has already taken steps to initiate a program
of controlling the further exploitation of this valuable resource, by removing
subsidies on diesel fuel and drafting a Water Resources and Irrigation Law.
Prior to the latter's enactment, MAWR has drafted an interim decree to be passed
by the Council of Ministers, which is aimed at regulating and controlling the
activities of the drilling rigs, stopping the unplanned and unorganized drilling
of new wells, and restricting the import of new rigs into the coux.nry.  The
proposed project would support these initiatives of the Government, and assist
in implementing a comp:-ehensive program for planning, monitoring and controlling
water use by the agricultural sector. Recognizing the urgency of the problem,
the following schedule would be followed for undertaking key steps towards
implementing the above program:



- 31 -
(i) In order to provide the regulatory framework necessary for
implementing the proposed program, the draft interim decree was
approved by the Council of Ministers as a condition of
negotiations. Also as a condition of negotiat4ons, the MAWR has
prepared detailed regulations [para. 8.02(iii)J.
(ii) Since it would clearly not be possible to initiate the effective
implementation of the proposed decree on a nationwide scale, it is
proposed the implementation would initially begin on a pilot basis
in Amran, the aquifer of which is seriously threatened.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the program for
registering and coordinating drilling rigs and licensing new
irrigation developments would be initiated within the pilot area
with effect from July 1, 1992 (para. 8.01(ix)]; and that realistic
fees would be charged for registering drilling rigs as well as for
granting licences for drilling new-wells at a scale reflecting the
scarcity value of water, to be agreed with IDA by September 30,
1993 and levied by 1anuary 1, 1994 (para. 8.01(x)].
(iii) The program implemented in the pilot area would be reviewed by the
Government, not later than by October 1, 1993, and after any
adjustments if considered necessary, the program's implementation
nationwide would be initiated by January 1, 1994. Assurances in
this regard were obtained from Government during negotiations
[para. 8.01 (xi)].
(iv)  It  is  recognized  that  initially  the  above  program  would
principally involve the registration and licensing of drilling
rigs, which would be an important first step.   The effective
control/licensing of new irrigation developments can only be
meaningful within the context of effective basin monitoring and
the  active  cooperation  of  the  rural  farming  community.
Accordingly, the WRS of MAWR would (in cooperation with the UNDP-
and Dutch-financed projects) strengthen the program of aquifer
monitoring and water use assessment for each of the major basins
with the support of technical assistance provided under the
project.    Through  this  process,  the  project  would  aim  to
institutionalize categorized priority levels for the regulation of
the major aquifers and draw up relevant criteria for the licensirng
of new irrigation developments, based on the extent to which the
respective aquifers are threatened in terms of depletion rates,
proximity to the sea and water quality aspects (see Annex 2).
Work on this would commence soon after the proposed IDA credit is
declared effective; assurances were obtained during negotiations,
that work related to the most threatened aquifers (such as, Sahaar
and Sana'a basins) would be completed by June 30, 1994, while the
categorization of all basins of Yemen would be completed by
December 31, 1995 [para. 8.01(xii)].
(v) Finally, MAWR would prepare a program for disseminating
information and providing education to farmers and the rural
community on the proposed program for controlling water use, and
new irrigation developments, which would be implemented under the
project by DGWR, with support of the technical assistance
provided, in order to seek their active cooperation in the
undertaking. Funds are provided under the project for preparing



- 32 -
information   packages   and  media   programs.        The   RDAs,
LCCDs/Cooperatives and other relevant rural community groupings
would act as important vehicles in this regard. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that MAWR will submit by November 30,
1992, for IDA's review, a detailed proposal on the manner in which
the program will be implemented [para. 8.01 (xiii)].
Physical ImDlementation of Project Components
6.06      The physical implementation of the irrigation developments would be
carried out by farmers with the project providing materials and technical advice
for design and implementation through implementation units (IUs) in the four RDAs
and in the MAWR offices in Lahej, Giar (Abyan) and Nuqub (Shabwah). Each agency
will nominate a full time civil and an irrigation engineer to be responsible for
coordinating the activities within their respective regions. These units would
be responsible for the groundwater, spate and the water monitoring aspects of the
project.   The groundwater section of the unit, which would include three
technicians, will be responsible for planning and supervising implementation of
the PVC pipe conveyance systems, as well as establishing the one-ha localized
irrigation plots. The proposed activities are still new to Yemeni agriculture,
and private sector capacity for this work is limited at present; consequently,
these units would be involved in installing the pilot improved irrigation systems
(para. 4.09), particularly during the earlier stages of the project, for which
farmers will bear the cost. However, private sector involvement in this activity
would be encouraged so as to maximize the rate of installation of irrigation
pipes to satisfactory standards.  In areas where small local contractors are
available, farmers would be free to utilize their services for trenching and
general earthworks; in such cases, the IUs would principally be responsible for
planning and technical supervision of implementation.   It is envisaged that
towards the latter part of the project period, the transition to total
involvement of the private sector in provision of installation services would
have taken place.
6.07      Spate irrigation develoRments involve mainly simple, but improved
structures, and would essentially be undertaken on a self-help basis by the
farmers directly concerned and/or LCCDs (in the North) and local agriculture
cooperatives (in the South). The spate irrigation section of the implementation
units would provide the local communities with assistance in planning, organizing
and supervising the proposed spate improvements.   Gabion baskets would be
procured through the project and provided free, in accordance with an agreed plan
for each site. The farmers would be responsible for providing the labor to fill
baskets and for hiring earth moving equipment, which exist privately in the
regions, for establishing the planned diversions or other structures.
Traditionally, community participation for this nature of work has been common,
particularly in the southern Governorates.   Assurances were obtained from
Government during negotiations that prior to the initiation of any construction
work or the provision of materials for the proposed spate structures, the
proposed plans and designs for the works, along with the associated costs, would
be discussed with the benefiting farmers and clear agreement reached on cost
sharing arrangements (using the cooperatives or local water-user groups which
have traditionally formed around specific wadis, as a forum); in addition, water
allocation plans would be agreed upon to ensure that existing water rights are
not infringed [para. 8.01(xiv)].   Arrangements for subsequent O&M and for
recovering costs of services provided 'n this regard by the irrigation
maintenance units, would also be agreed at these meetings (see para. 6.13).



-33 -
6.08      The water monitoring units would be attached to the implementation
units for administrative and general technical support; however, they would come
under the technical supervision of the Central Water Monitoring Unit within DGWR.
The units would consist of three technicians for monitoring surface water,
groundwater and the meteorological. stations. The units will assist in compiling
a reliable data base for water resources, both in the context of the agricultural
sector and in support of the efforts of other organizations involved in the
planning of water resources of the country.
6.09      The physical implementation of the forestry components would be
coordinated by DGFR, in association with the concerned regional agencies. In all
cases, farmers and local communities would be directly involved in implementation
through both consultation and participation in carrying out the proposed works.
Specifically,  the sand dune fixation and flood control component would be
implemented through forestry staff located in the governorates, with advice from
the Forestry Director at Al Kod and the Desertification Control Department of
DGFR.   Three teams, each consisting of a graduate and two technicians and
supported by technical assistance, would supervise the physical works in the
Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates. It is proposed that the graduate would
assume the functions of the Governorate forester, and will be responsible for
preparing annual work programs, related budgetary requirements, and project
progress reports. The forest nurseries and public tree planting component would
be implemented through the existing extension network of the regional agencies,
which would be strengthened to ensure improved technical subject matter
capabilities  in forestry  (see Chart 3).   In addition,  the project would
coordinate its activities with the existing units in RDAs dealing with the
development of women,  to ensure their participation in the project.   The
preparation of management plans for natural woodlands would be carried out by a
DGFR team including one graduate, two technicians and a cartographer, based in
Taiz, and would be supported by technical assistance as well as the wildlife
officer.   The plans would cover management of the woodland, fauna and other
flora. The areas would be identified from maps, in cooperation with local
landowners and LCCDs. They would be inventoried, and the team would discuss with
the owners the scope for improving, through management, the woodland surveyed.
The implementation of the pilot watershed management component would be carried
cut through two teams located in Hajjah and Madinat Al Shark, and the pilot
terrace rehabilitation component through a team located within DGFR in Sana'a.
6.10      Based on an assessment of staff presently involved in forestry, an
additional 18 graduates would be needed by DGFR.   These would include 3
additional graduates for the regions, 3 for watershed management, 1 for terrace
rehabilitation, 2 for sand fixation, 1 for the natural woodlands component, 6
SMSs, 1 for Monitoring and Evaluation and 1 for wildlife.  In most cases, it is
not essential that the staff have forestry degrees, the exceptions being the
component for preparing woodland management plans (for which TA is provided) and
the sand dune stabilization component for which technical expertise is available
within  the  forestry  section  in Al Kod.    Consequently,  reassigned  staff
(agricultural graduates) from within MAWR would initiate project activities, and
would receive training in forestry during project implementation.   During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that 9 graduates would be reassigned by
June 30, 1992, and a further 9 by June 30, 1993 to carry out the proposed project
components [para. 8.01(iv)], either from graduates returning from training or
from existing MAWR staff.
6.11      Counterpart Personnel and Remuneration.   It would be important to
ensure that competent counterparts are assigned to each advisor and that the



- 34 -
departments concerned assign adequate numbers of qualified personnel to assure
sustained operations. The key staff requirements for project implementation have
been identified and agreed with senior MAWR officials.   For some positions,
suitable personnel are already in post, and for others, transfers or
reassignments from within MAWR would be arranged.   Staff from the ongoing
UNDP/FAO irrigation project (which has 11 engineers and 6 technicians, all of
whom have received training), which is due to be closed, would also be absorbed
to work under the proposed project. In addition, discussions with Government
have emphasized the need for adequate re:Auneration for counterpart personnel, so
as to ensure sustainability of operations. Accordingly, provisions are included
under the project to ensure payment of adequate allowances to Yemeni project
staff to ensure optimum field operations.
B. Implementation Schedule
6.12      The project would be implemented over a period of six years; the
implementation  schedule  is shown  in Chart 4.   The  schedule  takes  into
consideration the fact that, other than DGFR, the field level implementing
agencies have  considerable past experience  in implementing  IDA projects.
Furthermore, the scale of activities proposed for implementation by each of the
agencies  is  relatively  small.    Under  the  proposed  plan,  the  physical
implementation of the spate and groundwater irrigation components would begin in
year 2 of the project and be completed over a period of around 4 years. It is
expected that the necessary initial procurement actions would be completed during
year 1 to ensure that materials are available on site for physical implementation
to commence in year 2. Work on setting up the proposed water monitoring units
would commence in project year 1, and monitoring work would continue throughout
the project period.   For the forestry and land conservation components, the
emphasis would be on initiating in year 1 the proposed training program,
procurement of equipment, and carrying out the proposed surveys for the pilot
watershed  management  and  terrace  rehabilitation  components.        Physical
implementation would principally commence in project years 2 and 3.
C. Cost Recovery
6.13      The problems encountered in recovering investment and maintenance costs
in large scale spate developments would not apply to the proposed project. The
proposed investments in irrigation conveyance and the pilot improved irrigation
systems would be sold to individual farmers; for the controlled irrigation
developments, farmers would also pay for the cost of trenching for PVC pipe
installation. There is interest among farmers for this technology, as evidenced
by the fact that farmers are financing such installations from their own
resources (para. 3.13). The field implementing agencies would be responsible for
selling the materials to the farmers.   Since the RDAs and the Governorate
implementing agencies are not equipped to handle the collection of cash from
farmers, each of these field level agencies would open an account in the local
branch of a commercial bank, where farmers would deposit the necessary amount and
obtain a voucher for the amount deposited. For the proposed spate works, no
charge would be levied for the gabion baskets, in view of the potential
ecological impact and the need to maximize uptake.   Farmers would, however,
contribute labor and pay for the cost of machinery operations; in this regard,
agreements would be reached with the prospective beneficiaries prior to the
commencement of individual developments on the cost sharing arrangements.



- 35 -
Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government during negotiations
[para. 8.01(xv)].
6.14      For  the  proposed  forestry  ope:ations,  in. view  of  the  broad
environmental benefits, gabion baskets woulct be provided free; local communities
would contribute labor to fill the baskets. As an incentive for tree planting,
forest tree seedlings would be provided at a nominal price, in line with present
practice; fruit tree seedlings would, however, continue to be sold at a price
which would recover the full cost of production. Prior to the implementation of
the watershed management component, the benefiting communities would be
consulted, and agreements reached on the proposed cost sharing arrangements,
whereby the communities would be expected to contribute towards the labor costs
of implementation. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government
during negotiations [para. 8.01(xvi].
D. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
6.15      Monitoring  of project  implementation  as well  as  assessing  the
development impact of the project would be the responsibility of the PMU. The
key aspects which need to be monitored, and which would provide the basis for
future impact evaluation, are summarized in Annex 10. Concerning development
monitoring in general, the existing Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Department
in MAWR is being strengthened, so as to create a viable national monitoring
capacity, following a simple system and uniform procedures based on the existing
fledgling operations in RDAs. These strengthened units, in conjunction with the
PMU, would be responsible for monitoring the development impact of the proposed
project activities.
6.16      The .PMU would be responsible for submitting to both IDA and UNCDF semi-
annual progress reports on the project, not later than two months following the
end of each reporting period. Progress reports will focus on: (a) progress in
procurement of machinery, equipment and materials and review of annual estimates
for PVC pipes and gabions; (b) progress in implementing works and water
monitoring systems; (c) status of bid processing for tenders and technical
assistance and training; (d) status of disbursements from the IDA credit and
UNCDF grant; (e) summary of issues raised by previous supervision missions and
their resolution; and (f) progress of training, and placement of staff on
completion of training.
6.17      A mid-term review would be conducted jointly by MAWR, IDA and UNCDF
during the third year of project implementation. To facilitate the review, the
PMU would prepare a detailed report and submit it to IDA not later than June 30,
1995.  Assurances on this were obtained from Government during negotiations
[para. 8.01(xvii)]. This review would take stock of progress and constraints
and, if necessary, adjust components, objectives and fund allocations.   In
addition, the mid-term review will also focus on reviewing actions taken by the
Government in implementing a supply and demand management strategy for
rationalising the use of energy resources for meeting domestic energy
requirements (para. 3.36). Furthermore, not later than six months after the
credit closing date, MAWR would furnish to IDA a Project Completion Report. The
completion report would, inter alia, include: an analysis of project
implementation; the benefits derived from it; the performance of project
management and IDA in fulfilling their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement; and the accomplishments of the proposed project in relation to its
objectives.



- 36 -
6.18      IDA would coordinate  the overall supervision of the project by
organizing joint review missions, which would also involve local personnel
Ministry of Planning and Development and MAWR. A tentative project supervision
plan is shown in Annex 11: it would require a total of about 100 staffweeks of
supervision over seven years, based on two supervisions per year, including a
mid-term review.   Other than monitoring the physical implementation of the
project, key policy and institutional changes which would need to be monitored
would include: (i) implementation of the Water Resources Decree, in line with the
schedule summarized in para. 6.05; (ii) structure, staffing and performance of
WRS and DGFR; (iii) coordination between WRS, WRAY project and TS; (iv)
involvement of women in project activities; and (v) placement into relevant
positions of staff returning from training provided under the project.
E. Accounts and Audit
6.19      All organizations involved in project implementation would be subject
to the expenditure control procedures of' the Government of Yemen, which are
considered satisfactory.   Overall project accounts would be maintained by
qualified personnel within the PMU.  Separate accounts would be maintained in
readily identifiable form, by the DGFR, DGI, DGWR and the RDAs for the respective
parts of the project implemented under their responsibility. Project accounts
would be consolidated by the PMU to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures related to the project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations from Government and MAWR on the
above accounting procedures, and that: (a) an independent auditor, satisfactory
to IDA, would be appointed to undertake annual audits of the accounts of the
project; (b) certified copies of the audited accounts of the project, as well as
the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures for each fiscal year audited,
and of the auditor's report would be furnished to IDA and to UNCDF, not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year; and (c) the auditor's report
would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request,
including, inter alia, a statement that the funds advanced by IDA for the Special
Account and disbursed against SOEs had been used for the purposes for which they
were provided [para. 8.01(xviii)].
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01      Environmental Benefits.  Environmental benefits, although not easily
quantified, would arguably be the most significant contribution of the project.
They would, in the long term, result in better overall resource management and
more efficient agricultural production.   Primary benefits,  from the strong
environmental emphasis of the project, would include: (i) effects of measures
aimed at improved groundwater resource management; (ii) protection of woody
biomass and preservation of indigenous fauna and flora; and (iii) increased tree
planting, and control of sand encroachment over agricultural lands. Further,
pilot activities incorporated in the project would contribute to improved future
natural resource management practices through demonstration of replicable
approaches for (a) watershed management and terrace stabilization, (b) recycling
waste water for crop cultivation, and (c) crop production using saline water.



- 37 -
7.02      Institutional  Benefits.    Significant benefits  would accrue  from
strengthening key institutions (WRS and DGFR) in the irrigation and forestry sub-
sectors.   Specifically,  the project would serve to:  (i) strengthen farmer
participation in the improvement of irrigation systems; (ii) further develop
implementation and evaluation capacity; (iii) facilitate comprehensive and
rational national water planning; and (iv) strengthen irrigation management
capabilities. In addition, it would develop capacity for: (i) improved resource
management planning; (ii) regeneration of degraded or deteriorating resource
bases; and (iii) incorporating local communities into forestry activities.
7.03      Production  Benefits.    Incremental  production  from  the  project,
benefiting about 4,500 families, would result primarily from the irrigation
component.   Production would increase on about 16,750 ha as a result of the
project: 14,350 ha served by controlled irrigation and 2,400 ha by spate.
Incremental annual agricultural production at project maturity would total
approximately 6,300 tons of grains, 500 tons of oil crops, 22,500 tons of
horticultural produce,  and 55,200 tons of fodder.   Further,  afforestation
activities are expected to result in incremental annual production, reaching
about 24,000 m3 of fuelwood and 6,000 m3 of poles at full development.
B. Justification
7.04      Groundwater:   Economies in pumped ground water resulting from the
project have been conservatively estimated to be about 20 percent, of which
conveyance losses make up about 75 percent. Therefore, the project would induce
a 15 percent savings in water utilization as compared to without-project levels.
Theoretically, farmers could utilize the water savings resulting from
introduction of pipe distribution systems in three ways. They could: (i) expand
on-farm irrigated area if supplemental land is available; (ii) provide irrigation
services for neighbors' crops; or (iii) reduce overall pumping time and costs,
without increasing the area irrigated. Experience from the Tihama area indicates
that, after introduction of piped conveyance systems, most farmers are likely to
expand the cultivated area. Therefore, production benefits have been valued in
terms of a 15 percent expansion of area under irrigated cultivation on affected
farms.   In addition, the project would enhance agricultural production as a
result of improved extension in irrigation scheduling and water management. It
is anticipated that yields would increase by roughly 5 percent over current
levels, with full development yields projected to be reached in year 5. Annex
12, Table 1 shows the assumed cropping patterns with- and without-project. Annex
12, Table 2 summarizes the estimated increase in agricultural production from
groundwater at full development, based on the projected yield increase and area
expansion.
7.05      SRate:  Production benefits associated with spate irrigation schemes
will result from improved conW.rol and greater reliability of irrigation on
existing farms. The project will result in farmers being able to increase the
spate irrigation coverage of the net areas of their farms.   Further, it is
anticipated that there will be a nominal increase in intensification of areas
currently spated. The total net command area of the spate schemes included in
the project is about 6,250 ha. However, it is estimated that only 1,900 ha is
spated annually at present; this is based on available data, taking into account
estimated existing diversion efficiencies.   The increase in the area spated
annually within the existing farms, resulting from the improved diversion
efficiencies and canal control structures provided under the project, has been
estimated at about 2,400 ha. The cropping pattern used in analysis of spate
irrigation improvements is shown in Annex 12, Table 1. The cropping pattern is



- 38 -
assumed to remain unchanged under the project. As shown in Annex 12, Table 2,
full development (Year 10) increases in spate-irrigated area generate incremental
production of 120 percent over the current base case scenario.
7.06      Forestry:   The project would generate direct production benefits
arising from project supported nurseries and tree planting. It is estimated that
direct wood production (fuelwood, poles and timber) benefits, based on the
incremental plantings directly as a result of the project of which half are
expected to survive, include an estimated increase in planted and surviving trees
of about 650,000 per year.   These trees would generate incremental forestry
production beginning in year 13 of the project and reaching about 30,000 m3 per
annum five years later. In addition, significant indirect benefits would arise
from the multiplier effects of increased community participation and better
utilisation and survival rates of nursery seedlings as a result of the
strengthened forestry extension and nursery operations, as well as from
implementing the components for preventing sand encroachment on agricultural
lands, national woodlands management, watershed management and terrace
stabilization. It is expected that the increased number of seedlings produced
and trees planted would be sustained after project completion, generating
additional long-term benefits. The indirect benefits from forestry, the majority
of which represent long-term environmental amelioration, while being a
significant part of the project's total benefits, are difficult to quantify and
not included in the economic. analysis.  While in terms of direct production
benefits the impact of the project would be relatively small in this initial
phase, the project would on the whole contribute towards reducing the rate of
forest resource depletion in the country. It would also set the stage for further
developments, by technically strengthening institutions, which would ensure
implementation of sustainable and larger programs in the future.
Financial AnalXsis
7.07      In accordance with ecological variations across project areas, six farm
models are used for the financial analysis of the groundwater component: Central
Highlands, Northern Highlands, Southern Uplands, Tihama, Coastal Uplands and
Coastal Lowlands (Annex 12, Table 1). The without-project cropping patterns
(Year 1) reflect current practice. With-project patterns (Year 5) reflect the
assumption that cropped area would increase by approximately 15 percent, and per
hectare yields would increase by roughly 5 percent. Crop budgets, corresponding
to each farm model, have been estimated for both without- and with-project
scenarios.
7.08      Consistent  with  regional  variances  in  average  farm  size  and
topographical/soil conditions, investment costs per farm for the piped
distribution systems differ by region.   Based on the above farm models, the
assumption that family labor is currently underemployed and using farmgate prices
shown in Annex 12, Tables 3 and 4, estimated full development farm family income
would be 32 percent to 60 percent higher than without the project. Further, the
Income per family labor day would increase by an average of about 15 percent over
the without- project level. The payback period for the investment ranges from
1.4 to 3.6 years.   The estimated financial rates of return vary between 27
percent for the coastal uplands farms to 89 percent in the southern uplands.
Annex 12, Table 5 summarizes the financial impact of the project on the model
farms. The analysis clearly shows that farmers' investment costs can be easily
justified from the income generated from incremental production.   Further
analysis shows that should farmers decide not to expand the irrigated area, the



39-
financial benefits accruing from savings in pumping costs and the yield increase
would in themselves justify the investment in the PVC pipe conveyance system.
Economic Analysis
7.09      Economic benefits are calculated on the basis of incremental production
from: (i) controlled irrigation farms; (ii) spate irrigation farms; and
(iii) project-planted trees, using the farm models (para. 7.07). Anticipated
institutional and environmental benefits have not been taken into account since
they are difficult to quantify. Therefore, it is important to emphasize that
there is a downward bias in all ERR calculations. In calculating the ERR, the
following assumptions were made:   (a) Prices:   Border prices for traded
commodities have been calculated from world market price projections (Annex 13,
Table 1). The economic value of fuelwood is based on the estimated border price
for alternative sources of energy for the rural population (Annex 13, Table 2).
A standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.67 is used to restate prices of local
non-traded commodities into border price terms. Prices used for the economic
analysis are summarized in Annex 12 Table 3.  (b) Labor:   Labor costs vary
between seasons, and also between regions, reflecting the prevailing conditions
of high unemployment and underemployment. Based on available data, an average
wage rate of YRls 100 per day has been estimated. The SCF is applied to labor
costs in order to restate them in border price terms. (c) Groundwatex: The cost
of groundwater has been calculated in terms of the economic cost of pumping only
(Annex 12, Table 4). The opportunity cost in terms of marginal benefits from
alternative water use is not quantifiable; this introduces a downward bias to the
ERRs calculated for scenarios with reduced water usage. (d) Investment and
Operating Costs: Investment costs are expressed in border price terms; costs and
the related benefits of the pilot activities are excluded from analysis. The
operating costs of the project are composed of facility maintenance and vehicle
operating costs, as well as office running costs includinig staff allowances,
expressed in border price terms. Based on these assumptions, the economic rate
of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at 19 percent (Annex 13, Table 3)
for the base case (15 percent increase in irrigated areas and 5 percent increase
in yields).   The net present value at 12 percent discount rate is YR1 133.5
million (equivalent to US$ 11.1 million).
7.10          Sensitivity Analysis.    The project  is viable under various
alternative scenarios. Switching value analysis shows that under any of the
following scenarios, the ERR would still be 12 percent: (i) investment costs are
increased by 42 percent; (ii) incremental benefits are decreased by 30 percent;
or (iii) incremental benefits are lagged by 3 years.   Sensitivity analysis
generates the following values for deviations from baseline project assumptions:
an ERR of 15 percent if investment costs were 20 percent higher; an ERR of 14
percent if net incremental benefits were 20 percent lower or if they were lagged
by two years;   an ERR of 13 percent if the expected yield increase did not
materialise; and an ERR of 14 percent if there were to be no increase in
irrigated areas.
C. Risks
7.11      Enforcement of Water Conservation Regimes.  The main risk concerns
introduction and enforcement of water conservation regimes. There is a growing
awareness among farmers of the deterioration in water reserves and support is
coalescing within Government for the introduction and enforcement of regulations
for controlling water utilization. To minimize this risk, key conditions have
been agreed at appraisal on the measures to be accomplished under the project,



- 40 -
including measures for water monitoring, basin planning, and registration and
control over drilling rigs. The approval by the Council of Ministers of a decree
aimed at regulating the activities of the drilling rigs, stopping the unplanned
drilling of new wells, and restricting the import of new rigs was a condition of
negotiations  (paras. 6.05(i)and 8.02(iii)].   Also a trial program would be
initiated in the Amran area by July 1, 1992, for registering and coordinating
drilling rigs and licensing new irrigation developments (paras. 6.05(ii) and
8.01(ix)].
7.12      Enactment of Water Law.  The draft law prepared by MAWR is presently
being reviewed by a committee, set up at the request of the Council of Ministers,
and there is a risk that its enactment would be delayed (paras. 3.06 and 6.05).
While the enactment of the proposed law is important, the risk of key measures
for controlling water abstraction not being initiated would be reduced by the
implementation of the decree referred to above, which is clearly an important
first step.
7.13      Commitment to Forestry Development.   The risks facing the forestry
components are centered on local technical capability and the need for active
participation of local communities during project implementation.   Given the
limited developments which have taken place in the forestry sector so far, the
proposed investments are modest. While the project provides for a significant
training and TA component to minimize this risk, a flexible approach needs to be
adopted for implementing the forestry component, which would be addressed prior
to and during the proposed mid-term review of the project [paras. 6.17 and
8.0l(xvii)].
7.14      Availability of CounterDart Funds.   Even though there have been
improvements made to the annual planning process, and the allocation of funds
which are consistent with ongoing programs, there is a risk that restrictions on
local operating funds would persist under the proposed project. However, as the
project would only involve existing organizations, the requirement for
incremental operating expenditures would be minimized.   Furthermore,  it is
anticipated that these costs should be accommodated within existing MAWR budget
allocations and from improved financial management after unification and specific
assistance  under  ASMSP.    In  addition,  assurances  were  obtained  during
negotiations that the RDAs/PMU would prepare annual work programs and agree on
the budgetary outlays necessary for implementation [para. 8.01(xix)].
7.15      Technical Assistance.    There  is  a  possible  risk  for  project
sustainability arising from Government's recent reluctance to recruit and
appropriately remunerate properly qualified TA specialists. To minimize this
risk, agreement has been reached with MAWR on the technical assistance package
and modalities for recruitment, based on identified skill shortages and
respective terms of reference. Government has already taken steps to recruit the
initial TA specialists for project start-up; in addition, the Government
recognizes the need for upgrading the technical capabilities of the agencies
involved under this project, and have assured IDA that the TA component would be
implemented in a timely manner, and that well-qcalified firms will be encouraged
to participate (para. 8.01(xx)].



- 41 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. 
8.01      The following assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations:
(i) MAWR would prepare a detailed proposal by September 30, 1992, for
IDAs review and comments, for establishing a nationwide mechanism
for the direct recovery of 0&M costs related to large scale spate
schemes, along with an agreed schedule for its implementation (para.
3.18).
(ii) Trainees would be assigned, to their positions prior to receiving
training, and would be required to serve a stipulated number of
years in such assignment upon completion of training (para. 4.03).
(iii) MAWR would complete the study to rationalize WRS by October 31,
1992, and after taking into account IDA's comments, complete
implementation of proposals by March 31, 1993 (para.4.12).
(iv) The followirg key staff would be appointed:
- 7 SMSs for Irrigation Agronomy by June 30, 1992 (para. 4.14);
- Additional 3 SMSs for Irrigation Agronomy by June 30, 1993
(para. 4.14).
- 9 Graduates for Forestry by June 30, 1992 (para. 6.10), and
- Additional 9 Graduai.es for Forestry by June 30, 1993
(para. 6.10).
(v) MAWR would establish two multi-disciplinary teams for the pilot
watershed component by September 30, 1992 (para. 4.22).
(vi) MAWR would follow the schedule indicated for appointing key
consultants: the CTA for the Water Resources Sector by March 31,
1993, Water Resources Specialist by December 31, 1992, the Senior
Irrigation Engineer by September 30, 1993, CTA for the Forestry
Sector by June 30, 1993, the Woodland Management Expert by
January 31, 1993, and the Chief Technical Coordinator for pilot
watershed component by June 30, 1993 (para. 4.25).
(vii) Government LOB procedures for procurement of civil works will be
revised for the project in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA, and that the first bidding documents under this category would
be submitted to IDA for review and comments (para. 5.06).
(viii) A Water Resources Strategy for Yemen would be completed by June 30,
1993 (para. 6.04).
(ix) The program for registering and coordinating drilling rigs and
licensing new irrigation developments in the pilot area would be
initiated with effect from July 1, 1992 (paras. 6.05 (ii) and 7.11].
(x) Realistic fees, the scales of which would be agreed with IDA by
September 30, 1993, would be levied by January 1, 1994 for



- 42 -
registering drilling rigs, as well as for granting licences for
drilling new wells (para. 6.05 (ii)].
(xi)  The  program  for  registering  drilling  rigs  and  licens4ng new
irrigation developments in the pilot area would be reviewed by
October 1, 1993, and after adjustments, MAWR would initiate
nationwide implementation by January 1, 1994 [para. 6.05 (iii)].
(xLi) MAWR would initiate soon after effectiveness of IDA Credit the work
necessary to enable categorization of the major aquifers, along with
the respective criteria for licensing new irrigation developments;
work related to the most threatened aquifers (such as, Sahaar and
Sana'a basins) would be completed by June 30, 1994; the work for
Yemen as a whole would be completed by December 31, 1995 (para. 6.05
(iv)I.
(xiii) MAWR would undertake a program for disseminating information to the
the rural community on the proposed program for controlling water
use; MAWR will submit, by November 30, 1992, for IDA's review, a
detailed proposal on the manner in which the program will be
implemented [para. 6.05 (v)].
(xiv) Benefiting communities would be consulted on the designs and costs
of the proposed spate works under the project, prior to the physical
implementation, and clear agreement reached on cost sharing
arrangements; in addition, water allocation plans would be agreed
upon to ensure that existing water rights are not infringed
(para. 6.07).
(xv) Agreement would be reached prior to initiating the project works on
the proposed arrangements for pricing and recovering costs from the
project beneficiaries for the proposed project works (para. 6.13).
(xvi) Communities benefiting from the watershed management component would
be consulted and the design and implementation arrangements and
agreements reached prior to implementation whereby the community
would contribute towards all labor costs of implementation (para.
6.14).
(xvii)  A mid-term review of project operations, for which PMU would prepare
detailed report by June 30, 1995, would be carried out jointly by
MAWR, IDA and UNCDF, during the third year of project implementation
(para. 6.17).
(xviii) Government would ensure that: (a) an independent auditor,
satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed to undertake annual audits
of the accounts of the project; and (b) certified copies of the
audited accounts of the project, as well as the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditures for each fiscal year audited, and of the
auditor's report, would be furnished to IDA and UNCDF not later than
nine months after the end of each fiscal year (paras. 5.14 and
6.19).
(xix) The RDAs/PMU would prepare annual work programs and agree on the
budgetary outlays necessary for implementation (para. 7.14).



- 43 -
(xx) MAWR to ensure the recruitment of competent technical assistance
personnel, for each of whom suitably qualified counterparts would be
nominated (para. 7.15).
8.02      The following were conditions of negotiations for the proposed credit
which have been met by the Government:
(i) Agreed financing plan for all project elements.
(ii)  The  PMU would be  established,  and  a  Project  Manager  having
qualifications acceptable to IDA appointed (para. 6.01).
(iii) Draft interim decree for regulating and controlling the activities
of drilling rigs would be approved by the Council of Ministers, and
MAWR would prepare detailed regulations for implementing this decree
[paras. 6.05(i) and 7.01].
B. Recommendation
8.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR24.1 million (US$32.8 million equivalent) on standard terms with 40
years maturity. The Borrower would be the Government of the Republic of Yemen.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
ImRrovements to Groundwater Irrigation
Conveyance System (Works Includeo, in-Project)
TOTAL      TOTAL    AVERAGE    INDICATIVE
REGION         LOCATIONS                NUMBER   IRRIGATED   FARM        PIPE TYPES
OF FARMS  AREA (HA)  SIZE (HA)  AND SIZES
A. NORTHERN    Sahar (Saadah)              600      1,600        3.0     P.V.C. Pipes
(SSHARDA)   Ryadah Arhab (Sana'a)      300         900       3.0      50:4"
50X:3"
900      2,700
B. WESTERN     Zabid (Tihama)              370      3,330       9.0      P.V.C. Pipes
(TDA)       Rima (Tihama)              180       1,620       9.0      100l :4"
Other Wadis (Tihama)        60        550        9.0
610      5,500
C. SOUTHERN    Hays (Taiz)                 300        360        1.2     501,3", G.I.
UPLANDS     Taiz (Taiz)                 825        990        1.2     251, PVC, 4"
251, PVC,3"
1,125      1,350
D. CENTRAL     Hamdan (Sana'a)             475      1,425        3.0     100%,3",G.I.
UPLANDS
Mabar (Dhamar)             425      1.275        3.0      50X,PVC,4"
501,PVC,3"
900      2,700
E. LAHEJ                                   125        500       4.0      100l ,PVC,4"
F. ABYAN                                   125        500       4.0      100l ,PVC,4"
G. SHABWAH                                 275      1,100        4.0     100l ,PVC,4"
TOTAL                              4,060      14,350



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND RATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Criteria for Selecting Farms for PVC Piped System
1.        The pipes must not be used to convey water from distant pumps,
but used to distribute irrigation water within the farm.
2.        Pump and acquifer characteristics and performance must be such
as to ensure efficient utilization of the system (pump and engine must
be capable of delivering required discharge and additional head for
piped system at 80 per cent of rating and without excessive drawdown).
3.        The soil and water conditions on the farm must be assessed to
determine if adding a piped conveyance system would be beneficial.
Farms on problem soils or where significant groundwater depth/salinity
make economic use of water questionable would not be included. Farms
having good earthen channels in heavy soils where seepage losses would
be low may also be excluded.
4.        Farmers' ability to give an undertaking to participate in the
project as well as to pay for the pipe, trench excavation and
installation works.
5.        Other things being equal, preference would be given to farmers
indicating interest in adopting water use efficient localized irrigation
for fruit trees and vegetables.
6.        The farm units should ideally not be geographically
concentrated in one area, to enable as wide a demonstration effect as
possible of the PVC piped system. Any one farmer would not normally be
given the piped system on more than one well.
7.        The farmer should undertake not to grow qat1, and agree to
use farm practices recommended by the RDA/extension services. The
farmer must also be prepared to assist project staff in monitoring his
farm for at least three years to obtain extraction rates, pumpage time,
water levels, irrigation efficiency, water quality and crops grown.
Qat is mainly grown in the higher elevations.  As much of the area
affected by the project (particularly the Tihama and the other coastal
areas) lies in the lower elevations, qat is consequently not expected to
be a major issue while beneficiary selection is made.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
SRate Improvement Works Included in Project
PROJECT           IMPROVED SPATE         CANAL CONTROL        BANK PROTECTION          OTHER WOR
WADI             DIVERSION WORKS        STRUCTURES           (SPURS & DEFELCTORS)
01. Wadi Tuban       pales-El Nino              -                       20 No.
(Lahej)         La Faiah and El             -
Fakaih
02. Wadi Bana               -               3 No.. El Diyyu             10 No.
(Abyan Giar)                            Command area.
03. Wadi Hassan             -               3 No., Al-Khawr             10 No.           Bana-Hassan
(Abyan Giar)                            Control Structures                          Diversion
4 No., Al Asala &
Kuban C.S.
1 No. each on Al
Asale, Dahl Abdullah,
Ubar Hussein offtakes.
Total 10 No.
04. Wadi Ayn         Azzabf                        -                    10 No.
(Nuqub)         22nd June
05. Wadi Beihan      Timma & Anter          7 No.                       20 No.
(Nuqub)         Al-Muharamiah           7 No.
& Al-Salim
small offtakes         3 No.
Garban                 2 No.
Badr                   2 No.
Ali Salim              1 No.
08. Wadi Markhah    Ibraybim                4 No.                       10 No.
07. Wadi Khawrah    Hauta                          -                    15 No.
Matna & Zahwan               -
08. Wadi Dura        Salab                  1 No.                       10 No.
09. Wadi Abadan      Goal & Makhabi                -                    10 No.
10. Wadi Yashbum            -                     -                     10 No.           2 No. spate
braker
recharge Weir
11. Wadi Yeramis            -                     -                     30 No.
12. Pilot Spate
Works
Wadi Rasyan      2 No. (Tais)                  -
2 No. (Tihaa)                -
Wadi Sharis    2 No. (Hajjah)                -
Wadi Bani
Nobamad         2 No. (Dhamar)               -



REPUBLIC OF YENEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Irrigation Sector Developments - Distribution of Buildings,
Machinery and Equipment, Vehicles, Staff, by RDA/Governorate
.................. .................................... ............................................................................................................................................................................
Central
Northern   Tiham    Southern   Central   Lahej   Abyan   Shabwah   Water Sec.   Water                        MAWR          PHh       Remarks
RDA        RDA        (Taez)    (Ohamar)                                                 Nonitoring  (DGWR Aden)  (Sana'a)
.......................................................................................................................................................
1. CivIl
lorks
(a) Baildlngs
Ct)                  350         700        225          350        200       200      225                                      100 (1)                 (1) Rehabilitation
2. IbehinrmY4
EQwioent
(a) 1
BulIdozers (Mo)                                                         I        1         I
Loader (No)                                                             I        I         I
Truck ST (No)                                                           I         I        I
Tractor,
Trailer, Water
Bawser                                          1                       1         1        2
Concrete
Mixer (<o)                                       1                      1         1        2
(b) Grovwter 
Nydraulic
Exc. (No)                                                     1                            1
Tractor with
Backhoe (Co)             2          3            1            1         1         1        1
Flat Bed
Truck (No)               1           1           1            1                   1        1
3. Vehicles
(a) Water Resources Sector
4WD (S.M.)                                                                                          9 (2)                                               (2) DOA 4
DGI 4
OrTERS I
(b) Water Monitoring
4WD (S.W.) 
4WDP.U.)                 1           I           1          1          1          1        2                         1
hotor Cycle              1           1           1          1          1          1
(c) PF
4WD (ST.V.)                                                                                                                        1           2                                   'Wp4 
4WD (S.M.)                                                                                                                                     3                                   OQ a,
(d) Iplexmntation                                                                                                                                                                       *  I-i
Units (Spate)
4WD (S.V.)                                      1                                  1     1 
4W  (P.U.)                         1                        1          1         2      2                                          1



Centrat
Northern   Tihams    Southern   Central   Lahej   Abyan   Shabsah   Water Sec.    Water                   MAUR         PPU       Agri.       Pilot
irrig.
RDA        RDA       (Toat)    (Dhmr)                                                Monitoring  (OMUR Aden)  (Sans'a)  DeveoItlp  t Studies
.......................................................................................................................................... ....................................................................................  
e) lopeomntaton
Units
(Grou,'smter)
4WD (S.W.) Mo.        1           I          1           1
4WD (P.U.) No.        1          2           1           1          1       1         1
Motor Cycla No.       2          3           2           2          2       2         2
f)  Agricultural Dev.
4WD (S.W.) No.
4. N ter,latp
(a) Gibion wid filter
1.6  (1000 .2)        0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2       2.63    5.50    19.10
o.s5  (1000 .2)       0.36       0.36        0.36       0.36      3.02    3.60    20.20
0.3M  m1000 .2)       0.33       0.33        0.33       0.33      4.97   10.30    28.77
Filter (1000 *2)    0.48         0.48        0.48       0.48      7.60   16.52    54.98
(b) Pipes
4  PVC (U)           195000    80650    43875          91600      65000   65000   156000
3m PVC ()            145000        -        43875      91600         -        -
3m 6.6. (a)              -                  60750    143100         -         -        -
S. $TAFF                                                                                                                                                                              4e
(a) Ted gof                                                                                                                                                                           |
FsIstance
Senior (so)                                                                                     100            4                          76        19         16
UIV  (i)                                                                                         48                                       48
(b) haticnal
Staff (Staff no.)
Project Manager                                                                                                                            1
Irr. Eng.                                                                                         3
surveyor                                                                                          2
Irr.Agronmiat                                                                                     I
Sociologist                                                                                       1
Neterologist                                                                                                   1
Engineer                                                                                                       1
Accountant                                                                                                                                 1
Procurement off.                                                                                                                           1
ane                    1           1          1          1          1       1         1                                        1
Support Staff                                                                                                                              2
Technican              3           3          3          3          3       3         3           4                            1                                          W  cr
Veh. Driver (S.T.)  10            10         10         10                 10        10          67            2                                                              ' I
o4 1-
0.t



Central
lorthern  Tlhm   Southern  Centrat  LaheJ   Wo   Shabiah  Water See.  Water              HAI        PEE    Remarks
RDA      RDA      (Tail)   (DOmr)                                       Noitoring  (DO   Admn) (Sanasa)
Adinistrative
Officer                                                                                                        I
Civil Egineer          1         1        1          1        1      1        1                                                 lwptentaticn iUits
glabanic               1         1        1          1        1      1        1
Field Suprvisw
spt                            11)    I(1)                 I      1        1                                                 (1) Total 6 staff yes
for mlt spte works
in  othern  RDA
filtd qaupvisow
mm Prt                                                      1      1        1
Assist. SIuvissr
mu  Pt                                                      1      1        1
Driver pipoWdt
(opt, qupwat)                                              4       S        S
(6rouumter)          3         4        2          3        2      2        3
krivws ("fehices)
ta                             1        1          1        3      3        4
1.W1.                3         3        2          2        1      1        2
8.u. rueuviar          1         2        1          1       1/2    1/2       1                                                  lred LdhJ - Rbpu
G.W. T_PilcIm          3         3        2          2        1      1        2                                                 mated tabsi - Min
WVsee/Thnician    1              2        1          1       1/2    1/2       1                                                  Shaed ldwj - Ueq
Ant. .vwyer            1         2        1          1       1/2    1/2       1
IW 
rh
0



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Groundwater Monitoring and Regulations
1.             Improving on-farm groundwater use efficiency can only fully
contribute to conservation of groundwater resources used by the
agricultural sector if coupled with the development and enforcement of
appropriate regulations for monitoring of control of extraction rates.
The responsibility for implementation would be with the Water Resources
Sector of MAWR, and in particular the Directorate General for Water
Resources (DGWR). Steps necessary for groundwater monitoring and
regulation are summarized below. The proposed project activities shall
complement the efforts of the WRAY and HWC in the agricultural components
of the water sector.
2.       Assessment of the current state of Yemeni water resources
utilization will require the following activities:
(a) Completing the existing network of weather and rainfall
monitoring stations. Deciding correct locations for these
stations will need to be supervised by the Water Resource
Specialist, and an expert hydrometeorologist (two visits of 3
s/m each).
(b) Developing a clearer understanding of the hydrogeology of the
major aquifers by developing calibrated groundwater models
and mo..:toring of groundwater levels and salinity, associated
with the following:
(i)   7 major groundwater zones in the highlands (18-23
monitoring sites).
(ii)   11 geohydrological provinces of the Tihama Plains (36-50
monitoring sites).
(iii)   3 zones of the upper and lower aquifers in the Marib area
(6-9 monitoring sites).
(iv)   groundwater zones within the Tuban and Abayan deltas (about
50 monitoring sites); in addition, about 110 other
monitoring sites within the other main wadis of the south.
Other than the water resources specialist, this activity will require an
expert hydrogeologist who will be assigned to the DGWR.  Monitoring sites
will utilize abandoned wells and existing wells wherever practical;
however, a provisional number of 25 drilled wells has been included in the
project.
(c) It will be necessary to organize and analyze inventory
information on the number of wells in Yemen along with their
capacities and areas irrigated - this is already being done
under the UNDP supported project.



.
- 51 -
Page 2 of 3
Based on above work, arrive at reasonably comprehensive development plans
and appropriate regulations for managing the aquifers. This work will be
carried out under technical assistance to the DGWR where in addition to
the Water Resources Specialist, other T.A. staff will be appointed to
assist in this task.
3.       The setting up of well drilling monitoring and registration
system will include the following activities:
(i) Establishing a registration system for drilling rigs, to be done
by DGWR, with the assistance of RDAs;
(ii) Initiating a system for monitoring all well drilling and pump
lowering activities, in one of two high priority groundwater
zones - Sana'a basin and Sahara basin in that order.
(iii) Instituting a licence system for well drillers and a registration
system for all well drilling, well refurbishing, and pump setting
or sales activities, according to criteria given for the
different acquifer priority levels - the year 1995 would be a
target date for getting the permit system fully implemented.
4.       The project would assist DGWR to institutionalize three priority
levels for regulation of the major aquifers, plus one or two for the minor
aquifers. This would be based on a National Water Resources Master Plan,
which is part of the terms of reference for HWC, and should be completed
within two years of project inxtiation. The following are the priority
levels for groundwater regulation:
(a) Highest hazard category, where water levels are dropping by
more than 3m per year, where regulations should be most
restrictive. The groundwater zones in this category include
the Sahara basin surrounding Sa'dah, and the Sana'a basin.
In this category, all future well-drilling to be outlawed,
and restrictions be placed on expanding lands irrigated from
existing wells and extraction rates.
(b) Areas where water levels are dropping from lm to 3m yearly be
designated the middle hazard category, i.e. parts of the
Tihama Plain, and the plains around Maban in the Central
Highlands. In this category, (a) outlawing well drilling to
develop new irrigated areas in pockets where water table is
falling more than 2 m per year, (b) setting well spacing and
extraction rate criteria consistent with rational
exploitation of aquifer, (c) requiring permits to drill,
deepen or refurbish wells for agricultural land on condition
of compliance with sound exploitation criteria in addition to
installation of improved irrigation water conveyance and
application systems.
(c) Areas where water tables are dropping by less than 1 m per
year, such as Qa'al Haq' Basin south of Yarim, and parts of
the Tihama Plain - low hazard category, where regulations
would not be too restrictive. In this category, the
regulation may include setting well spacing and discharge
criteria and requiring permits to deepen or refurbish any



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
well and issuing permits to drill new wells that conform to
specified spacing and discharge criteria.
(d)   Regulations for the alluvial aquifers along the banks of the
larger wadis and the alluvial fans of the smaller wadis might
be placed in two categories depending on extent of
exploitation with more restrictive category being applied to
aquifers that are fully exploited.
(e)   For wells falling outside the above categories, a permit
would still be required for drilling, purchasing a pumping
plant for the well in addition to the application of spacing
and discharge criteria.
The above includes the main groundwater zones for the north; the major
acquifers of the south need to be categorised for necessary action on a
similar basis.  While the above categories are based on the rate of
groundwater depletion as measured by the rate at which water tables are
dropping, another important indicator which should be taken into
consideration is the proximity to the sea (eg. Tihama) where sea water
intrusion may damage the acquifer in a way which is irreversible.
5.       Finally, it would be necessary to improve the understanding of
current irrigation practices and crop water requirements, and the
organizational constraints and scope for development. This would require
the following activities:
(i) Evaluating on-farm irrigation conveyance losses to determine
potential for improving on-farm water-use efficiencies;
(ii) Learning about organizational and resource constraints faced by
farmers with various irrigated farm sizes and financial
capability;
(iii) Obtaining or generating information on specific crop water
requirement in each region, in order to properly schedule
irrigation applications;
(iv) Conducting well and pumping plant performance tests for
different regions and well discharge/depth categories to
determine possibilities for improving energy use efficiencies;
The above activities would require TA in the form of Water Management
Specialist, and would be carried out by the Irrigation Agronomist in
collaboration with the T.A. staff of the DGWR and the extension and
agricultural research staff operating in the RDAs and other regional
offices of the MAWR.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Forest Nurseries - Location and Production
Pre-Project Product ion                     Post-Project Product ion 1992-1997
'OOO's                                            '000's
Name              Area
Total                                                         Total
Cat.    1989    1990    1991    89-91        1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    92-97
Bir Al Quhum    Sana'a               1       103      120      130      353       130      140      150     160      170     180      930
Al Thawrah       Sana'a              1        43       50       60       153       60       70       80      90      100     110      510
Mousanah         Sana'a (Haraz)    3          20       25       25        70       25       25       25      25       25       25     150
Qa' Al Boun      Sana'a              3        -        60       70       130       70       80       90     100      110      120     570
Sanawan          Sana'a             3         34       30       32       96        32       34      36       38       40      42      222
Warazan          Taizz               2        41       50       55       146       55       55       60      60       65       65     360
Al Makha         Taizz               1        10       10       11        31       11       12       13      14       15       16      81
Al Salaba        Ibb                 2        11       10       15        36       15       20       25      30       35      40      165
Zabid            Hodaidah            2       182      150      165      497       165      180      195     210      225     240   1,215
Al Husseiniah   Hodeidah             1        40      150      165      355       165      180      195     210      225     240   1,215
Al Zohra         Hodeidah            1        20       20       22        62       22       24       26      28       30      32      162
Gumeisha         Hodeidah            1         9       10       12       31        12       14       16      18       20      22      102
Al Khokha        Hodeidah            1        -         5        5        10        6        7        8       9       10       11      51
Sajil            Hodeidah            -        -         -       30       30        30       40       50      60       70      80      330
Al Maghash       Saadah              1        21       30       35        86       35       40       45      50       55       60     285
Govt. Farm       Marib               1        -       400      400      800       400      400     400      400      400     400   2,400
Al Jawf          Al Jauf             1         -        -       30        30       30       35       40      45       50       55     255
Rassabah         Ohamar             3         65       60       65       190       65       70       75      80       85      90      465
Al Khobar        Beida (Rad'a)       1         19      25       30        74       30       35       40      45       50       55     255
Beida            Al Beida            -        -         -        -         -       30       35       40      45       50      55      255
Al Mahweet       Al Mahweet          3         12      25       35        72       35       45       55      65       75       85     360
Beni Queis       Hajjah              1        -         -        -         -       10       15       20      25       30      35      135
Ohalaa           Dhalaa              -         3        3        -         6        5       15       25      25       25      25      120
Lahej            LaheJ               -        18       18       18        54       20       40       40      40       40      40      220
Al Kod           Abyan               -        50       50       50       150       60       60       70      70       70       70     400
Nissab           Shabwa              -        -         2        2         4        2        2        5      10       10       10      39
Nugub            Shabwa              -          6       6        6        18        6       10       15      15       15       15      76
Al Goal          Abyan              New        -       -        -         -         -        5       15      15       15       15      65
Hajjah           Hajjah             New       -        -        -         -        25       75       75     100      100      125     500
Madinat          M. Alshark         New        -       -        -         -        25       75       75     100      100      125     500
LCCD1                jI            New        -        -        -         -         -       10       11      12       13       14      60
LCCD2                              New        -        -        -         -         -        -        -      10       11       12      33
Totals:            _        707   1,309   1,468    3,484    1,576   1,848   2,015   2,204   2,334   2,509  12,486
Catecories: 1: Established by Swiss Project                           Capacity: In lowland areas could be doubled
2: Assisted by Swiss Project                                        without increasing nursery size.
3: Technical assistance only by Swiss Project



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF YEME
LAN  AnD VATER CSERVATION PROJEC
Provisional Summary of Agricultural
Extgnsign Centers and Extensionists1'
Nmber of             g. ogf Agricultural
Regional Authority            Extenslon Centers          Extensionists
Male  Femle   Iotal
Tihama                               47             123      63      186
Eastern                               72/            17        -      17
Central                              47              92      21      113
Southern Uplands                     79              73      25       98
Northern                             39              52       4       56
Southern GovernoratesV                               67       7       74
Totals                       12                      1Q      544
1/ The figure is provlsional because the number of extensionists
changes monthly.
2/ They are being built at present and should be ready by the end of
the year.
_/  The three Governorates in the project, i.e. Lahej, Abyan and
Shabwah.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
Page 1 of 4
REPLC OF Y
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Pronosed Forestry Comnonents - Distribution of develooments.
EauipMent. Vehicles, Staff Requliremgnts, ec.,
bY Re1ion or General Directorate
I  I     Southern I            r            Aden/
Item tUnit  NorthernlCentral Uplands ILahej Abayan Shabwa DOFR  Al Kod
A. INSTITUTION STRGHEINIG
Buildings
Office Unit         ma                                                    300
Seed Store          M2                                                      9
agiuDment
Office              no.                                                     3
Library             no.                                                     7
Mapping             set                                                     1
Mapping Furniture   set                                                     1
Vehicles
4-WD Vehicle        no.       1       1        1                                  4
Motor Cycles        no.       3       3        3       2      2      2      3
Iai.ning (Foreign)
Graduates           no.       3       3        3       1      1      1      3
Technicians         no.       5       1        1       1      1      1      5
Cartographers       s/m                                                          18
Technical Assistance
CTA & Assistant     s/y                                                           9
Fauna & Flora       s/m                                                           4
Sgf
Graduates           no.                                                           2
Technicians         no.                                                           3
Cartographer        no.                                                           1
Bilingual Secretary no.                                                           1
Drivers             no.       2       2        2                                  4
B. SND FIXATION AND FLOOD CONTROL
EcuiRment
Planting/Silvicult. set                                1      1      1            1
Photointerpret.     set                                                           1
Nursery             set                                       1
Laboratory          set                                                           1



- 56 -
ANNSL 3
Table 3
Page 2 of 4
Southern                            Aden/
Item                Unit  Northern Central Uplands  Lahej Abayan Shabwa DGFR  Al Kod
4-WD Vehicle         no.                                 1     1      1             1
Forestrv Wrk
Sand Fixation       ha                                        30
Fordune              no.                                       4
Shelterbelts        ha                                  35    36
Canal Bank and
Flood Protection  km.                                 7      6      7
Dams & Afforest.    ha                                200
Nursery Equipment
Installation      no.                                 1      1      1
Road Plantation      km.                                10
Technical Assistance
Sand Stabilization  s/m                                                             6
Stff
Graduates            no.                                 1     1      1
Technicians          no.                                 2     2      2
Drivers              no.                                 1     1      1             1
C. NATURAL WOODLAND MANAGEMENTV
Buildinis
Offices, Happing
Room, Store         M2                                                            63
EglAiRment
Inventory            set                                                            1
Camping              set                                                            1
Mapping              set                                                            1
Office Eguirment
PC and software      no.                                                            1
Furniture:
Office       set                                                             4
Map Room     set                                                             1
Vehicles
4-WD Vehicle         no.                                                            1
Motorcycle           no.                                                            2
Technical Assistance
Woodland Management sly                                                             6
Sociologist (local) s/m                                                             8



- 57 -
Table 3
Page 3 of 4
Southern                            Aden/
Item                 Unit  Northern Central Uplands  Lahej Abayan Shabwa DGFR  Al Kod
Staff
Graduate             no.                                                      1
Technicians          no.                                                      2
Cartographer         no.                                                      I
Driver               no.                                                      1
D. FOREST NURERIES AND PUBLIC TME PLANING
Eguigment
LCCD Nurseries       set                                                      2
Women & Develop,    set       6        6        6                                   6
Extension/Audio-
visual             set      2        2        2                                   2
Naterials
Polyethylene Bags   ton                                                      24
Seed                 kg.                                                     25
Vehicles
6-ton truck          no.      1        1        1                                   1
4-WD Vehicle         no.      2        2        2                                   2
Nursery and Extension
Large Nursery
Establishment     no.       1        1
Film Production      no.      3        3        3                                   2
Poster Production   no.       2        2        3                                   3
Training (Foreign)
Nurserymen           s/m                                                            1
Forest. Engineer
Study Tours        s/m      1        1        1                             1     4
Training (Local)
Nurserymen           s/m                                                            4
Technicians          s/m                                                           12
Extensionists        no.      9        9        9                                   9
Community Develop.  no.       2        3        2                                   3
Reg./Dept.Directs.  no.                                                       1     1
Technical Assistance
Women & Development s/m                                                       4
Stff
Graduates            no.      2        2        2                                   2
Technicians          no.      1        1
Driver               no.      3        3        3                                   3



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-
Table 3
Page 4 of 4
Southern                             Aden/
Item                Unit  Northern Central Uplands  Lahej Abayan Shabwa DGFR   Al Kod
E. WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND TERRAgE REHABILITATION
Auildines
Office/Residence/
Store Complex     M2       60      60
EguiRment
Hydrometric/
Sediment          no.       2       2
Irrigation Systems  no.      20      20
(drip/bubbler)
iMaterials
Hand Tools           set     1.5      1.5
Gabions             m3  11,314  15,086
Filter Cloth        m2   7,715  10,285
Vehicles
4-WD Vehicle         no.                                                      5
Motorcycle           no.                                                      2
Watershed and Terraces
Soil Moisture &
Salinity Measure.  no.      15      15
Irrig. Systems      no.      20.     20
Water Harvesting    l/d    450       500
Other Labor          l/d 11,314  15,086
Plant Hire          hr      974   1,298
Terraces: Aerial
Photographs         set                                                      1
Training (Local)
M.Sc. Students       s/y      6        6
Technical Assistance
Watershed Engineer  s/m,    1.5       1.5
CTC & Assistant      s/m     30       30
Terrace Rehabili.   s/m                                                       3
Staff
Graduates            no.      1        1                                      1
Technicians          no.      1        1                                      2
Driver               no.                                                      1
I/ At Taiz



RENUDLIC OF YEMN
LAWD AMD WATER CUSVATIOU PROJECT
Pronosed Training Pronre: Water Sector and Anricultural Davelo=mnnt
Training              Level           o. of Persons          Project Year        Period       Training Plece                 Rsmrks
Involved
1. Post Graduate
a. Land Conservation   Higbhr Diploma/M.5c.      2            One each in PYR 2,3   One  year       University of        Training of staff of the
b. Wai  Training              *                   2                                                   Sanas or           Directorate General of
c. Computer Application       *                   2           One each in PYR 3,4 A                     other              Water Resources, and
d. Hydrogeology                                   2           One each in FYR 4,5        -          Universities           of Regional Development
a. Bydruasteorology                              2                                                  Internationally Aaen4 is
f. Irrigation Agren ow                           2            One each in PYR 5,6
g. Irrigation Engineering                         a 6         Two each in PYIR 1,3,4,6
2.  T chnical Training                                                   Y ar
1    2    3    4
Meteorology          Undergraduate            10            1    3    4    3                    Technical Coflege    Training of staff of the
(Technician)                                                                     in             Directorate Gearal of
Yan                Water Resourc.
b. Meteorology                                                 1    2    4    3
Kquip ent Maintea nce       -                 S             -    1    2    2      Two MOnths
c. Irrigation Agronomy                           10            1    2    4    3
d. Irrigation Techniques       -                  5            -    1    2    2
3. Technical TraininB
a. Wter Resource
Management             Post Graduate            1                    Yr  2          Four Montbs    Acadouic and
b. Coputer Applications  and Professional          1                    Yr  3          Two     n        Technical
c. Project Mrnag_ment       Short courses          1                    Yr  2          Four    n     Institutions
d. Boil Conservation                               1                    Yr  3          Tbree O        in the Middle           Training of staff of the
*. Irrigation Macbhinery                           1                    Yr  4          TWo             East, Europe           Directorate General
f. Wai  TraininS                                   1                    Yr  3          Four         and North America         of Water Resources
g. Flood Hydrology                                 1                    Yr  4          Two
h. Statictics
(Meteorology)                                  2                     Yr  2         Four
i. Irrigation Economics                           2                     Yr  4          Foor    n
J. Irrigation Technology                           2                    Yr  4          Four
k. Maintenance of
Agricultural Eguipxnt                           1                    Yr  3          Thre    n
4.  Agricultural Trainina
a. English Languag         Language               10                    Yr  1 (S R. ) 1 Year            Sansa                 Training for SHS
Course                                     Yr  2 (5 No.)               (British Council)
b. Irrigation Agronacw  Technical Training        10                    Yr  1           1 Month      GIAR Agricultural
Training Center
c. Extesion Agents      3 years as extension   450                      Yr  1 to PRY 4 2 Weeks       GIAR Agricultural
Agent                                    I 113 staff co.               Training Canter
each year
d. Irrigation Aarnow  MOSC.. or                   10                    Yr   2.3.4:    1 Year        National College of
Post Graduate                                  3 No. each year              of Agricultural
DiplOma                                        Yr  4 - 1 No.                Engineering U.R.
SILSOE
Engineoring SILSOK, UK



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
ProDosed Training Program: Forestry DeveloDment
& Watershed Management CompDonents
Training              Level           No. of Persons        Project Year        Period                             Training  Place
Involved
OVERSEAS TRAINING
1. Forestry               NSc                      15           3 every year            2 years           Alexandris (Egypt) or Nosul (Iraq) Universities
canencing Year One                        (in Arabic) or Khartou (Sudan) or Peshawar
(Pakistan) UniversIty (in English).
2. Forestry                Tecdnician              15           3 every year            2 years           Forest College (Cyprus) in English or Lattakia
coamensing Year One                       School (Syria) in Arabic.
3. Cartography             Technical                2           Year One                9 months          European countries e.g. Germany, Netherlands, U.K.
N.". Overseas Surveys, Southapton, U.K.
4. Forest mursery work    Nursery headman           1           Year One                1 month           Syria.
5. Arid area forestry
durw fixation          Research                 2            Years One and Two       2 onths           North Africa or the Middle East.                             B
6. Women and develop-                                                                                                                                                  0
mnt: forestry        Study tour               4            Years Two and Four    2 months            North Africa or the Niddle East.
LOCAL TRAINING
1. Extension/forestry     Technician                6           Year Two                2 months          Giar Agricultural Training Center.
2. Forest mwrsery work    Nursery headmen            4          Year One                1 mnth            Al Kod Forestry Research Nursery.
3. Agricultural            Extensionist            300          4 sessons per year      1 week - 15       Course and Lecturers organized by SNS.
extension                                                    commencing Tear Two    persons/session   Extension Blocks throughout Republic of Yemn.
4. Community Develompent  Community leaders        100          2 sessions per year    1 week - 10        Course and Lecturers organized by SNS. One
coencing Year Two    persons/session   field day. Extension blocks throughout ROY.
5. Project                Department or             14          1 session in Years      3 days - 7        Course and lecturers organized by SNS.
rgsanization            Regionia  Heads and                  Two or Three            persons/session   Hotel in ROY.
Research Directors
6. Various subjects 1/    N.Sc. students              6         One or two per year    2 years            Aden or Sanaa tUniversities.  In the fietd
comencing Year Two                        Hajjah or Nadinat Atshark.
1/  Suggested socio-economics, vegetation, irrigation. water resource engineering, land use systems, extension.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Pilot Studies
A.  Pilot Study for Optimal Use of Saline Water for Irrigation
The object of this short study, which will require 10 staff-months
(s/m) input of a specialist consultant in the field of use of saline water
in irrigated agriculture, will be to assess the potentials of this source
of water for irrigation purposes in Yemen, and the precautions to be
adopted to safeguard against the possible hazards which may result form
its use.
The study will concentrate, in particular, on the Northern Tihama
area where the electrical conductivity (EC) of groundwater may vary
between 1500 and 6000 ds/m and where, except in areas close to the Red
Sea, sodium is not a problem The groundwater being extracted for
irrigation in this area has an EC greater than 1500 ds/m, 35% has an EC
above 3000 ds/m, and about 10% has an EC above 6000 ds/m. Furthermore,
the salinity of the groundwater of Tihama is increasing due to the heavy
pumping for irrigation. The pilot study activity for managing irrigation
with saline groundwater will include setting up two pilot 1-ha bubbler or
drip demonstration systems in Tihama, one using water with an EC of about
2000 ds/m and the other using water with an EC of about 4000 ds/m.
The consultant shall review relevent studies carried out on use of
saline water for irrigation in areas similar to Yeman. The consultant
shall select the locations, define the equipment required, establish and
supervise the installation of the pilot units. The consultant shall set
up a program for operating and monitoring the pilot farms, review the
results and make conclusions and recommendations.
The consultant will carry out the study and coordinate his
activities with the Water Sector General Directorates of MAWR, the PMU and
the Tihama Development Authority, and will oversee the selection of two
suitable 1.0 ha sites, procurement of equipment through the PMU, the
installation and commissioning of the system. The consultant will be
assisted by t small counterpart team consisting of an Irrigation
Agronomist and two technicians who will cooperate with the consultant
during his field visits and periods of work in the project area. The
counterpart team will be drawn from the larger Implementation Unit
attached to TDA and will continue to monitor and provide technical
assistance to the farmers on whose land the trial sites have been set up,
for a period of three years.
The consultant will be engaged initially for 7 s/m to set up the
study and subsequently required to visit the project area on an annual
basis for periods of 1 staff month for three years following establishment
of farms to supervise activities, monitor progress, give recommendations,



- 62 -
Page 2 of 2
and draw conclusions from the effects of use of saline water for
irrigation.
The consultant shall present an interim report at the end of four
months to review progress and give preliminary findings and initial
recommendations followed by the final report no latter than one month
after completion of the initial engagement of 7 s/m. The consultant shall
also present short follow on reports after his subsequent annual visits
giving status of progress in monitoring of pilot farms, conclusions and
recommendations.
B. Pilot Study for Reuse of Urban Waste Water for Irrigation
The object of this short study, which will require a total of 6
staff-months by a specialist consultant in the field of waste water reuse
in agriculture, will be to assess the potentials of this source of water
for possible use for irrigating selected vegetable, industrial and fodder
crops, in addition to forestry. The study shall review existing reports
and data on the reuse of urban waste water for irrigation in Yemen,
determine and test ways to sAfely utilize the effluent flows from Sana'a,
Taiz, and Hodeidah. The total flows from these sources have been
estimated at about 28,000 m3/day. The consultant shall prepare rough
designs and cost estimates with an analysis of the potential for such
water reuse in agriculture with outline designs and estimates for a pilot
project to be imrlemented for the irrigation of a 5 ha farm near one of
the three cities cited above.
The specialist consultant will carry out the study and coordinate
his activities with the Water Sector General Directorates of the MAWR, the
PHU, and the Regional Development Authorities of the MAWR in whose areas
he will be operating. The consultant will be assisted by a counterpart
irrigation agronomist and two technical assistants who will cooperate with
the consultant during his work Ln Yemenie.
The consultant shall present an interim report at the end of three
months to review progress and give preliminary findings and initial
recommendations followed by the final report no latter than one month
after completion of the 6 s/m.



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance
(Staff-Months)
Specialist Exeert               Senior Expats.   UNV/Local Contract
1.  Water Resources Sector/PMU
-  CTA, Irrign. Engineer                   36
-  Senior Irrign. Engr.                    36
-  Irrigation Engineer                                         48
2.  DGWR
- Water Resources Specialist               36
- Senior Hydrologist                       12
- Hydrogeologist                           12
- Hydrometeorologist                        6
- Data Analyst/M&E                          9                   24
- Hydrologist                                                   24
- Other (Short Term Consultant)             6
3.  DGI
- Dams Engineer                            12
- Other ST                                  3
4.  Agriculture
-  Irrigation Agronomist                   14
-  Irrign. Agr. Curriculum                  3
- Farm Mgt. Expert                          2
5.  DGFR
- Forestry Adviser                         48
- Woodland Management                      36                   36
- Watershed Management                     29                   48
- Terrace Stabilization                     3
- Sand Stabilization                        6
- M&E                                                           60
- Wildlife Expert                           4
- Women's Extension Specialist              4
6.  Pilot Activities
- Use of Saline Water                      10
- Reuse of Waste Water                      6
Sub-Total for Project                  333                  240
7.  CHADP (IDA Cr. 1453-YAR)-Financed T.A.
- Review of Organisational Structure
for Water Resources Sector               4
- Water Monitoring System & Assistance
to DGWR (Water Resources consultant)    4
- Start up of implementation for
irrigation component (irrigation
engineer)                                4
Total                        345                 240



Republic of Yeeen
Land & Water Conservation Project
Sumary Accoumts Cost Suary
YRts                                 USS                               X Total
...................................    ..............................-   X   Foreign     Base
Local    Foreign       Totat        Local  Foreign    Total        Exchange       Costs
.......................          ................                ............
1. INVESTMENT C0STS
... ................
A. Civil wrs
1. Office & Other Buildings     8339.70    5559.80   13899.50        694.98   463.32   1158.29           40.00       3.02
2. Irrigation Warks            33635.45   22898.63   56534.08       2802.95   1908.22  4711.17           40.50      12.28
Sub-Total                         41975.15   28458.4    70433.58       3497.93  2371.54   5869.46          40.40       15.30
S. Forestry Works                 14226.94    3139.49    17366.43      1185.58   261.62   1447.20           18.08       3.77
C. Eqwf peen
1. Irrigption Syste             1074.06   20407.14   21481.20         89.51  1700.59  1790.10           95.00        4.67
2. Office                        169.53    3221.09    3390.62         14.13   268.42   282.55           95.00        0.74
3. other                         839.91    15958.29   16798.20        69.99  1329.86  1399.85            95.00       3.65
i~~~ ------ ...i ......... .. ....   . .............................  .... ... .. ............... _
Sub-Total                          2083.50   39586.52    41670.02       173.63  3298.88  3472.50           95.00        9.05
D. Vehicles                         996.94    18941.86   19938.80        83.08  1578.49   1661.57          95.00        4.33
E. Naterials
1. Gsbions & Filter Cloth       1222.97   23236.49   24459.46        101.91   1936.37  2038.29          95.00        5.31
2. Pipe Irrigation System       7614.15   144668.84   152282.99      634.51  12055.74  12690.25          95.00      33.08
3. Other                         667.80    6928.20    7596.00         55.65   577.35    633.00          91.21        1.65
... ..... .. ... .... ..... .... .. ....  .   .......................  .......................
Sub-Totad                          9504.92   174833.53   184338.45      792.03  14569.46  15361.54         94.84       40.04
F. Training
1. Local                        9080.36        0.00    9088.36       757.36      0.00    757.36          0.00        1.97
2. Foreign                      1920.90   36497.10   38418.00        160.08  3041.42  3201.50           95.00        8.35
~~~~... . . . . . . . . . . . . .......         -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -   ..... ...................
Sub-Total                         11009.26   36497.10   47506.36        917.44   3041.42  3958.86          76.83       10.32
6. Technical Assistance            2459.70   46734.30   49194.00        204.98  3894.52  4099.50           95.00       10.69
Total IUVESTHEIIT COSTS           82256.41   348191.23   430447.64     6854.70 29015.94 35870.64           80.89       93.50
....... ............ ... _... _.... _.......   ............ ................  ........... _... ....._.____
It. REBORElT COSTS
. . ...... ._......
A. Operation & Naintamce
1. Buildingp                    1313.69    1074.84    2388.52        109.47    89.57    199.04          45.00        0.52
2. Eqfpent                      1343.81     1006.75    2350.56       111.98    83.90    195.88          42.83        0.51
3. Vehicles                     6523.44     5337.36    11860.80      543.62   44.78    988.40           45.00        2.58
-----  ----- ---- ;.... .. ........... __..... . .... ....... ..........  .............................
Sub-Total                          9180.94     7418.95    16599.88      765.08   618.25   1383.32          44.69        3.61
B. Staff Allowances                9305.44        0.00    9305.44       775.45      0.00    M.45            0.00        2.02
C. Prodution Costs                 2400.00     1600.00    4000.00       200.00   133.33   333.33           40.00        0.D7
Total RECWURENT COSTS             20886.38    9018.95    29905.32      1740.53   751.58  2492.11           30.16        6.50
Total ZASELIUE COSTS             103142.79  357210.18  46J352.97       8595.23  29767.5t 38362.75          77.59      100.00
Physicot Contingencies         10932.63   34670.95   45603.58        911.05   2889.25  3800.30          76.03        9.91
Price Contingecies            146344.00  444815.55   591159.56      1591.97  3881.88  5473.85           70.92       14.27                      V 
______________________-___-_.-___-    -_--_--------------------------   ------------------------        tD X
Total PROJECTS COSTS             260419.42  836696.68  1097116.10    11098.25 36538.64  47636.89           76.70      124.17                   _. .
V_tu_s Sadb_-                                                                   = _-9
Values Scaled hy 19D00.0 -  411411992  19:23



Republte of Yemen
Land & Water Conservotion Project
Projects Ccqponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS
01          02           03          04           05           06       Total
A   Institution Strtngthening
1. Woter Resources Sector            695.15      1923.20      1407.14     1043.80       424.94      119.50      5613.74
2. Forestry S-Cector                 334.05      1027.70       839.79      757.11       801.71      361.40      4121.76
.....................................................................................
SukbTotal                                1029.20     2950.90      2246.93      1800.91     1226.66       480.90     9735.50
B . Irrigation Tech. Devel.
1. Spate                                0.00      638.49      2035.43     1796.87      1260.13      280.83      6011.75
2. Groundiater                          0.00     2639.62      4657.96     5616.26      5787.11       103.92    18804.86
3. Agricultural Dewlopment           463.12       378.09       285.99      281.11        96.08       24.59      1528.98
4. iuplementation Units                46.85     2653.96      1251.16       193.26      184.80       186.25     4516.28
.....................................................................................
Sut-Total                                 509.97     6310.17      8230.54     7887.50      7328.11       595.58    30861.87
C . Forestry Tech. Devel.
1. Land Cons./Afforestation          937.16       926.35       629.22      570.19       555.80      588.88      4207.61
2. Watershed Nwagement                254.86      350.21       859.86      905.45       235.78       225.75     2831.91
.....................................................................................
Sub-Totat                                1192.02     1276.57      1489.08      1475.64      7°1.58       814.63     7039.52
.....................................................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     2731.19    10537.64    11966.55    11164.05       9346.35      1891.12    47636.89
....................................... .............................................................................. 
Values Seated by 1000.0 4J14/1992 19:23
m1



Republic of Yemen
Land & Water Conservation Project
Surmary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS
............................................ ........................................................................ ....... .........
01          02          03           04          05          06       Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.................... 
A. Civil Works
1. Office & Other Buildings         52.15      1121.40      414.69        0.00         0.00        0.00     1588.24
2. Irrigation Works                 12.44       727.82     1944.13     1805.27      1501.46      311.27     6302.38
Sub-Total                              64.58      1849.22     2358.82      1805.27     1501.46      311.27     7890.62
B. Forestry Works                     349.90       133.34      469.46      522.74       307.80      317.09    2100.34
C. Equipment
1. trrigation Systems               26.03      1248.22      532.94       63.99       61.02        30.69     1962.88
2. Offfce                          121.27       131.87       63.90        5.1'         0.65        0.68      323.84
3. other                           668.75       330.30      262.69      243.52       160.18        8.10     1673.55
Sub-Total                             816.05      1710.38      859.53      312.98       221.85       39.46     3960.26
0. Vehicles                            259.01     1227.81      278.43        0.00        23.74        0.00     1789.00
E. Materials
1. Gabions & Fitter Ctoth            0.00       262.37      963.73      990.13      367.69        73.48     2657.41
2. Pipe Irrigation Systems           0.00      2337.51     4143.26     4997.09     5146.75         0.00    16624.62
3. other                            19.16       204.88      144.18      149.08       155.86      160.69      833.84                                   a
====- G===CC===G==_======C======uCG===CC=== G=====_========G==========C==  G====aoC%
Sub-Total                               19.16     2804.77     5251.18     6136.30      5670.30      234.16   20115.87
F. Training
1. Locat                           118.83       192.25      230.11      231.22      124.98       71.45       968.84
2. Foreign                         321.92       843.66      841.74      862.72      615.76       293.86    3779.66
Sub-TotaL                             440.75      1035.91     1071.85     1093.93      740.75       365.31     4748.50
G. Technical Assistance               659.92      1371.4!     1210.48      802.16      381.78        97.58     4523.37
............ .........................................................................
Total INVESTNENT COSTS               2609.38    10132.88    11499.76    10673.39       8547.68     1364.88    45127.96
333    2333333   3333333333333333Z3333333333333333=32===     3 ===  3-33 C=3=3=33==
11. REORRENT COSTS
...................
A. Operation & Maintenance
1. Bultdings                         0.00       32.61        49.18       50.84       52.58       54.36      239.57
2. Equipment                        11.18       42.16        43.01       44.47       45.99       47.55       234.36
3. Vehicles                         30.09       183.05      230.03      237.82      249.17      255.11      1185.27
SubrTotal                              41.26       257.83      322.21      333.13      347.74      357.03      1659.20
B. Staff Allowances                    60.10        84.36       80.77       69.58       59.98        51.67      406.47
C. Production Costs                    20.45        62.57       63.80       87.95       90.96       117.55      443.27
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 121.81      404.76       466.79      490.66      498.68      526.24      2508.94
Total PROJECT COSTS                  2731.19    10537.64    11966.55    11164.05      9346.35      1891.12    47636.89                          w
.................. ...................................... . ............................................................. 
Values Scaled by 1000.0 4/14/1992 19:22



File: FINPLNI                                          REPtUSIC OF ThEN
LAND AND WATER COISERVATION PROJECT
Project Finrncing Plan (USS Nitlion)
Total Project Cost
CoIep nnt/Expanditure Category  Local  Foreign  Total FINANCIER          IDA    GONT.  FANERS  OTHERS  TOTAL
IRRIGATIO DEKVELOPET
A. Grousacter Oeveltqent
Materials                     O.t5  14.81   15.69                     13.77    0.88            1.04   15.69  Other financing refers to UWIF 1/
Plant Hire by Farmer          1.06    0.57    1.63  IDA/                               1.63            1.63
IU Nehinray qD. Costs         0.28    0.17    0.45  tNIMF                     0.45                    0.45
Pressurized/Drip Systems      0.06    0.98    1.03                     0.80    0.06            0.18    1.03  Other finwcing refers to UhSDF 1/
Subtotal                    2.27   16.53   18.80                   14.57    1.38    1.63    1.22   18.80
B. Spate Irrigation Developt nt
Gabions/Filter cloth          0.10    1.81    1.91                     0.90    MO              0.91    1.91  Other finwcirg refers to tHrF I/
Earthuorks, etc.              2.16    1.34    3.50  IDAI                       2.45    1.05            3.50
JU Machinery qp. Costc        0.39    0.21    0.60  UNCDF                     0.60                    0.60
Subtotal                   2.64    3.37    6.01                     0.90    3.14    1.05    0.91    6.01
C. Water Nanitoruig
Equipment                     0.11    0.97    1.07                    0.97    0.11                     1.07
Vehicles                      0.01    0.19    0.20  IDA               0.17    0.01             0.02    0.20  Other financing refers to CHADP 2/
Technicel Assisutnce (OM4R)   0.06    1.09    1.16                     1.07                    0.09    1.16  Other finacing refers to CHAOP 2/
Recurrent Costs               0.14    0.06    0.21                             0.21                    0.21
Sahtotal                    0.33    2.31    2.64                    2.20    0.33    0.00    0.11    2.64
0. Institution Streagthening (incl.PiSI)
Civil Works                   0.02    0.01    0.03                     0.03    0.00                    0.03                                           1
Office Equipent               0.00    0.07    0.08                     0.02    0.00            0.06    0.08  Other financing refers to CHADP Vc
Vehicles                      0.02    0.30    0.32                     0.26    0.02            0.04    0.32  Other finncing refers to CAW 2P -V
Training- Locat               0.34    0.00    0.34  IDA               0.34                            0.34
Training - Foreign            0.03    0.50    0.53                    0.53                            0.53
Technical Assistance (1IWUDOI)   0.06    1.05    1.11                  1.07                    0.04    1.11  Other financing refers to COIWP 2/
Recurrent Costs               0.10    0.19    0.28                            0.28                    0.28
Subtotal                   0.57    2.12    2.69                     2.24    0.31    0.00    0.14    2.70
E. lqAtementaticn Units
Civil Vorks                   0.78    0.47    1.25                    0.89    0.12             0.23    1.25  Other financing refers to WLMF I/
Equipant                      0.11    1.91    2.02                     1.20    0.11            0.71    2.02  Other financing refers to UICDF l/
Vehicles                      0.03    0.47    0.49  IDAI              0.37    0.03            0.10    0.49  Other financing refers to UNIICF 1V
Recurrent Costs               0.51    2 2S    0.75  UIOF                     0.75                    0.75
Subtotal                    1.4t    3.10    4.52                    2.46    1.02    0.00    1.04    4.52
F. Agricultural DevelogPnt
Equipment                     0.01    0.20    0.22                    0.20    0.01                    0.22
Vehicles                      0.01    0.13    0.14                    0.13    0.01                    0.14
Training - Local              0.39    0.00    0.39                    0.39                            0.39
Training - Foreign            0.02    0.42    0.45  IDA               0.45                            0.45
Technical Assistance          0.01    0.20    0.22                    0.22                            0.22
Recurrent Costs               0.07    0.05    0.1                             0.12                    0.12
Subtotal                   0.52    1.01    1.53                     1.38    0.14    0.00    0.00    1.53                                     OQ
6. Studies                         0.05    0.23    0.28  IDA               0.23    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.28
Total - Irrigation Ccqnnts     7.79   28.68   36.47                   24.01    6.37    2.68    3.42   36.47                                      0
1/ NICDF financing relates to spate and groundtater comonents In LEhej and Abyan.
2/ Pro-effectivenes activities financed fran IDA Credit 1453-YAR.



REPUBLIC OF YTEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Fir,wcing Ptmn (USS Nitlion)
Total Project Cost
Ceqponent/Expenditure Category   Local  foreign  Total FINANCIER             IDA    GOVT.  FARMERS  OTHERS  TOTAL
FORESTRY/LAND CONSERVATION
H. Sand Fixation ond Flood Control
EQUipment                      0.01    0.23    0.24                       0.23    O.01                     0.24
Vehicles                       0.00    0.07    0.07                       0.07    0.00                     0.07
Forestry Works                 0.96    0.00    0.96  IDA                 0.63    0.34                      0.96
Technical Assistance           0.00    0.07    0.07                       0.07                             0.07
Recurrent Costs                0.05    0.03    0.08                               0.08                     0.08
Subtotal                     1.03    0.39    1.42                      0.99    0.43    0.00    0.00    1.42
G. Forest Nurseries mid Extensmin
Nursery Estab. for Watersheds    0.11    0.07    0.18                     0.16    0.02                     0.18
Eeipment                       0.01    0.20    0.21                       0.20    0.01                     0.21
Vehicles                       0.01    0.25    0.26                       0.25    0.01                     0.26
Nateriats                      0.03    0.53    0.56  IDA                  0.53    0.03                     0.56
Training - Local               0.19    0.00    0.19                       0.19                             0.19
Training - Foreign             0.00    0.03    0.03                       0.03                             0.03
Technical Assistance           0.00    0.04    0.04                      0.04                              0.0.
Recurrent Costs                0.44    0.26    0.71                               0.71                     0.71
Subtotal                     0.81    1.38    2.19                      1.41    0.78    0.00    0.00    2.19
O. woodlnd Management
Civil Works                    0.02    0.01    0.04                       0.04    0.00                     0.04                                             1
Equipent                       0.00    0.05    0.05                       0.05    0.00                     0.05
Vehicles                       0.00    0.03    0.03  IDA                  0.03    0.00                     0.03                                             CD
Tedcnical Assistance           0.02    0.41    0.43                       0.43                             0.43
Recurrent Costs                0.03    0.01    0.04                               0.04                     0.04                                             1
Subtotal                     0.08    0.51    0.59                      0.54    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.59
1. Watersheds/Terrace Rehab.
Civil wrks                     0.05    0.03    0.07                       0.07    o.o1                     0.07
Forestry Vorks                 0.68    0.28    0.96                      0.28    0.23    0.45              0.96
Equipment                      0.01    0.09    0.10                       0.09    0.01                     0.10
Vehicles                       0.01    0.10    0.10                       0.10    0.01                     0.10
Materials                       0.05    0.81    0.86  IDA                 0.81    0.05                     0.86
Training  Local                0.05    0.00    0.05                       0.05                             0.05
Technical Assistance           0.03    0.54    0.57                      0.57                              0.5?
Recurrent Costs                0.09    0.04    0.12                               0.12                     0.12
Subtotal                     0.95    1.88    2.83                      1.96    0.42    0.45    0.00    2.83
J. Institution Strengthening
Civil Works                    0.12    0.07    0.20                       0.18    0.02                     0.20
Equipment                      0.00    0.05    0.05                      0.05    0.00                      0.05
Vehicles                       0.01    0.17    0.18                       0.17    0.01                     0.18
Training - Foreign             0.15    2.62    2.77  IDA                 2.77                      0.0    2.770
Technical Assistance           0.04    0.70    0.74                      0.74                              0.74
Recurrent Costs                0.12    0.07    0.19                               0.19                     0.19                                      1%C
Subtotal                     0.44    3.68    4.12                      3.90    0.22    0.00    0.00    4.12                                        0o
Total - Forestry Cpsnents       3.31    7.85   11.16                      8.81     1.90    0.45    0.00   11.16
Total Project Costs          11.10   36.53   47.63                      32.81    8.27    3.13    3.42   47.63



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
REpUBLIC OF YEMEN
IAND AND ATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year and           During Semester    Cumulative
Semester Endings              Disbursements       Disbursements   Percentage
-(US$ Million)---------
1993
December 31, 1992                  0.0                  0.0             0.0
June 30, 1993                      0.3                  0.3             0.9
1994
December 31, 1993                  0.4                  0.7             2.1
June 30, 1994                      2.8                  3.5            10.7
1995
December 31, 1994                  3.0                  6.5            19.8
June 30, 1995                      4.2                 10.7            32.6
=12
December 31, 1995                  4.2                 14.9            45.4
June 30, 1996                      4.2                 19.1            58.2
1997
December 31, 1996                  4.2                 23.3            71.0
June 30, 1997                      4.2                 27.5            83.8
1998
December 31, 1997                  3.9                 31.4            95.7
June 30, 1998                      0.9                 32.3            98.5
1999
December 31, 1998                  0.5                 32.8           100.0
Closing Date: June 30, 1999



- 70 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF XV
LAND AND VUTER CONS ERVATION PROJECT
K2ey Nonitoring Indicators
Unit.    1993        1994          1995         1996        1997         1998      Total
Eat.  ct.   tt.  Ac.    Eat    gotEt. Act.   Nat  Act.   Est  Act.  Rat  Act.
A. rRXGBTION
Institutional Progres
Training Completed             S/U
Higbor Diploma
Technicians, Local
Technicians, Foreign
Extension Staff
Studies Completed              no
Physical Proarasa
Monitoring Boreholes
Installed                   no
Monitoring Stations
Established                 no.
Weather
Spate
Groundwater
Groundwater Farms Surveyed    no.
Piped Conveyance Systems
Installed                   ha
Piped Conveyance SysteoJ
Installed                   nO.
Pilot Systm   Installed        no.
Diversion Structures
Completed                   no.
Bana BHsaen Diversion          I
Agrioultural Inputs
Imported                    Tons
nOt ratn P rtormane-
Siteo  Monitored               no.
Weather
Spate
Groundwater
Observations Collected         "o.
Weather
Spate
Groundwater
Reports Subhitted to WHU       n.
Basin Plns Inltioted           no.
Trenobing Private Sector       ha
Share of Total Trenoehid       I



- 71 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
U  t    1993         1994         1995          19i6       ?997         lOO      Total
tat Aet   Sec   Aat   Set  Aet   tat Aet .t  Aet Eat Act  E!t Ac
Piped Conveyanoa Systme
- Pre-Project Irrigation
Are/a                    he
- Area Irrigated after
Instal.ationl/           ha
Pilot System  Operating       no.
Incremental Spate Cropping    he
Groundwater umped from
Piped Conveyance Systems    m3
Agricultural Yiolds
(by Crop)                   Tons
Greondwater
Spate
S. FCRSSRY
Jrstituball ProArero
Training Completed            aim
Graduates
Teohnicias
Technical Assistance
Rendered                    a/m
Watershed Mnasgment
Women in Delopmnt
Woodland L'evelopment
Sanddune Stabilization
Faun and Flora
Woodland Sociologist
Terrace Rehabilitation
Thysical Prolres
Foredunes Constructed         ha
Shelterbelts Construoted      ha
Trees Planted                 km
Stone D    Afforestation      ha
Area of Woodland Happed       km2
Nurseries EStablished         no.
Aerial Photography
Completed                   km2
Seedlings Produced            no.
Seedlngs Planted              no.
Seedlngs Deatroyed            no.
Planted Trees Surviving       1
Costa per Seadling            nRu
SO visits made                no.
Reductions n Sand
managemet Plan Cmpleted    ha
B Dased on *alected ample of tubes for mtoring.
With particular refecrnce to vilage perimters.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Office Review and
Sonrvision Mission (inctuding Retort Preaaration (rR)       Procuremnts (MU)
Forestry and
Type of               Mlisaion    CiviUllrrig. Land Conserv.     Agiculturist    Economist  Speciat   Task   Procurement Total
FT         Nission                Timing         Eng.      Specialist                                   Input      Mger Matters        (SU)
92  To Expedite Project Effec-      3/92          2             1                                 2        1         2       2         10
tiveness and Procurmnt
Efforts
Subtotal FT 92                   -          2             1                                 2        1         2       2         10
93 Sq4ervision                     10/92          2             1                                          1         1       2          7
Supervision                     4/93          2             1               1                 2                  2       1          9
Subtotal FT 93                                4             2               1                 2        1         3       3         16
94 Spervision                      10/93          2             1                                          1         1       2          7
Supervislon                     4/94          2             1               1                          1         2                  7               "a
Subtotal FY 94                                4             2               1                          2         3       2         14               1
95 Spervision                      10/94          2             1                                          1         1       2          7
Stpervision & Mid-term Review                 3             2                                 2        2         2                 1;
Subtotal FY 95                                5             3                                 2        3         3       2         18
96 Suervislon                      10/95          2                                                        1         2       1          6
Supervision                     4/96          1             2               1                          1         1       1          7
S- utotal FY96                                3             2               1                          2         3       2         13
97 Supervision                     10/96          2                                                        1         2       1         6
Supervision                     4/97          1             1                                 1        1         1                  5
Subtotal FY97                                 3             1                                 1        2         3       1         11
98 Supervislon                     10/97          2                                                                  1       1         4
Supervislon                     4/98          1             1                1                1        1         1                 6
Sa. total FY98                                3             1                1                1        2         2                 10
99 Swrvision (PCR)                 10/98          2            1                 1                1        1         2                 8
TOTAL                               26           13                5                9        13       21       13       100
I'



RE8ftUlC Of ThEN
LAWD AMD ATMER COUSVAT ION PMOJECT
IRRIGATION FAM CDELS
CETItAL NIGNL.    INOTNEIN 1161L.   ,SWUITEN  UPL.       1I1AM"              JOCASTAL UPI.      ICoISTAL 10L.   IISPATF ItR.
,..............................................................................................................................
Vol Y    35   I   YRt      YR5         T el3    YR5   I     1     Yes   I   YR1       Ye5   I   Vol      uS 1311 
Irrigated l n
Size (ha)               3.00    3.45        3.00   5.45         1.20    1.38       9.00   10.35       4.00    4.60        4.00   4.60          10.00
Area Irripgted
by Crop (ha):2.0                                                                                                .3
bdCop:                 1.30    1.50                                                                 2.00   2.30
NaI*e                  0.60    0.69                           1.20    1.36
sorgis   (Grain)                          3.00    3.46                           5.30    6.22                                                 0.20
Sorua (lfdder)                                                                   1.80    2.97                          2.40    2.76           3.50
Alfalfa               0.10    0.12        0.10    0.12                                              0.60    0.69
Sese                                                                                                0.80    0.92                              0.70
OrmindAuts                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.80    2.07  1.30
Vaetdinjs             0.50    0.58        0.30    0.35       0.40    0.46        1.80    2.41       0.20    0.23                              1
Potato"               0.60    0.69                           0.20    0.23                           0.tU    0.46
Tlntoe                                                                                                                  1.80    2.07          0.39
ApPt*                 0.40    0.46        0.10    0.12
Sanwaus                                                      0.30    0.58        0.90    1.37                           0.20    0.23
Grps                  0.10    0.12        0.10    0.12
Cotton                                                                           1.0     0.50                                                 2.01
.................. . ................. .................. .................. .................. ................................
Total Cropped
ALM  (be)                3.60    4.15       3.60    4.15        2.30    2.65      10.80   12.5?       4.00    4.61        6.20    7.14          8.10
CroPping
Intaneity                1202    1202        1202    1202        1922    1922       120X    1212       1002    1002       155X    1SS2            Six
_   _     _ _---     ------___o
,uaauuuu.uauuaaua SVUSUUUUUUUUU*UU I UUUSSUUUUUUUi U SUUUU2UUUZUUUUIU UuguaaSuUuUuuUUaU I                         3323333'3U1



- 74 -
ANNEX I2
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Incremental Acricultural Production (Tons3
Production     Production      Increm Prod    Increm Prod  Project Inpact
Crop                          Year 1          Year S       Groundwater        Spate        GW + Spate
Grains
Wheat                               3763            4552             789               0            789
Maize                               37M             4560             786               0            786
Sorghum (Grain)                     6997            8534            1537              63           1600
Alfalfa                             15135          18307            3172               0           3172
Sub total Grains                   29669           35953            6284              63           6347
Oil Crops
Sesame                                167            202              35             120            155
Groundnuts                           620             750             130             240            370
Sub total Oil Crops                  787             952             165             360            525
....................................................................................................
Hort3cutture
Vegetables                         22738           29103            6366               0           6366
Potatoes                            12369          14953            2584               0           2584
Tomatoes                            6602            7985            1384             669           2053
Apples                               1215           2094             879               0            879
Bananas                            25277           34963            9687               0           9687
Grapes                               972            1866             894               0            894
Sub total Horticult                69171           90965           21794            669           22463
............................ .............................................. .................................................
Cotton                              1039             545            -493             589             95
.........................................................................................
Fodder
Sorghum (Fodder)                   49868           60270           10402           12852          23254
Wheat Straw                         5293            6402            1110               0           1110
Mafze Stover                        11570          13978            2408               0           2408
Groundmut Stov                       810             980             170             477            647
Sorghum Straw                      39190           48028            8838               0           8838
Sorghum Stover                     51826           63312           11486             146          11633
Sorghum (f) Straw                  18202           21979            377             5124           8901
Bananas Straw                        600             895             295               0            295
Cotton Straw                         672             353            *319               0            -319
Cotton Stover                       3177            1668           -1509               0          -1509
Sub total Fodder                  181206          217864           36659           18600          55259
....................................................................................................
Total                             281872          346280           64408           20282          84690
s--=a- SU#:tB-=-"==as-------a:waa=-=at



- 75 -
ANNEX 12
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF YENEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Agricultural Prices (YRls)
llnitl           Financial        Economic2/
INUT
Alfalfa Seed                                     65.0            43.3
Apple Seed                                       65.0            43.3
Banana                      Plants               13.0             8.7
Cotton Seed                                       2.0             1.3
Grape                       Plants               35.0            24.3
Groundnut Seed                                   21.0            14.0
Maize Seed                                        6.5             4.3
Potato Seed                                       8.0             5.3
Sesame Seed                                      25.0            16.7
Sorghum (Grain) Seed                              6.0             4.0
Sorghum (Fodder) Seed                             6.5             4.3
Tomato Seed                                     625.0           416.7
Vegetable Seed                                  300.0           200.0
Wheat Seed                                        5.0             3.3
Nanure                                          400.0           266.7
Urea                                              6.0             4.1W
TSP                                               6.0             3.8W
Sulphate of K                                     6.0             2.9W
Pesticides                                      170.0           170.0W
Tractor Hire                ha.                 100.0            66.7
Oxen                        Day                 150.0           100.0
Labor                       L/D                 100.0            66.7
OlUTP
Alfalfa                                           2.5             1.7
Apples                                           30.0            20.0
Bananas                                           8.0             6.3W
Cotton                                            6.0             2.9V
Grapes                                           20.0            13.3
Groundnuts                                       21.0            14.0
Maize                                             6.5             2.8V
Potatoes                                          5.3             3.5
Sesame                                           26.0            17.4
Sorghum (Grain)                                   6.0             2.7V
Sorghum (Fodder)                                  1.0             0.7
Tomatoes                                          4.0             2.7
Vegetables                                        6.0             4.0
Wheat                                             5.0             3.7V
/ Kllogram, unless indicated otherwise.
/ Unless otherwise noted, the economic price is arrived at through
application of a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.67.
/  Based on Comodlty Price Projections.  See Annex 13, Table 1.



- 76 -
ANNEX 12
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Unit Cost of Groundwater
Assumptlons:       Total Head                                70m
Pump Discharge (7.5 l/s)                 27 (m3/hr)
Water Horsepower                          6.9
Overall pump, drive & motor               0.5
efficiency
Gross brake horsepower                   13.8
Size of engine                           28
Estimated fuel consumption                5.4 (l/hr)
ReDl-acement
Dug Well                                 150,000
Pump & Engine                            250,000
Fuel tank, pump shed, etc.                25.000
TOTAL REPLACEMENT COST                   425,000
FIXED ANA
DEPRECIATION
COST:            Well, fuel tank and shed
(15 yr life: 0.07 x 175,000 YRls)       12,250
Pump & engine
(8 yr life: 0.13 x 250,000 YRls)        32.500
TOTAL FIXED ANNUAL COST                   44,750
ANNUAL OPERATING
Fuel (1750 hr/yr 5.4 x 3.10 YRls)         29,295
Lubricants (0.2 x Fuel cost)               5,859
Maintenance & repairs (0.20 x Fixed
Annual Cost)                             8.950
TOTAL ANNUAL OPERATING COST               44,104
COST OF WAT:
Average Quantity water pumped/yr          47,250m3
Unit Cost per m3 water
(Fixed Annual Cost + Annual
Operating Cost/Average Quantity         1.9 YRls
Pumped)



- 77 -
ANNEX 12
Table 5
REUULIC OF VENEi
LAND ANO WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
SUIARIZED RESULTS - FARM INCOME ANALYSIS
a) PRESENT SIATION - WITHOT PROJECT
REGtON     CENTRAL    COASTAL   NORThERN   SOUTHERN        TIRANA     COASTAL
ITEM                       HICGLANDS   LOWLANDS  HIGHLANDS    UPLANDS                  UPLANDS
GROSS VALUE OF PRODCYRIs)    183,013    291.123    134,910    195,702    484,587       173,075
VARIABLE COSTS (YRIs)         90,88      198.S       78,212      77,32    288,228      123,736
NET INCM  (YMo)o              92,127     92,565      S6,698    118,320    196,360       49.339
TAXES (YRtLs)                 13,76       21.84      10,118     44,675      36,34       12,981
NET FAMILY INCOME (YRts)      781,401     70731      46,80      103,62     160,015      36,359
....... ....................................
FAMILY LAWO  DAYS                106        252         165         138        424         154
INCOME PER FAMOILY
LAOR   Y (YRts)                422         281        277         731        377         236
b) FUTURE SITUATION -- WITH PROJECT (YEAR S)
REGION    CENTRAL    COASTAL    NORTHERN   SOUTHERN    TIHANA       COASTAL
ITEM                      HIGHLANDS   LOWLAUDS  NItHLANDS   UPLAS                    UPLANDS
CROSS VALUE OF PRODCYRts)    247,365    351,S19    177,637    237,318    656.SS8       208,988
VARIABLE COSTS (YRIS)        113,311     225.136     89.978      82,300    353.979     142,637
NET INCOME (YRl*)            134,0S4     126,383     87,659    15S,018    302,579       66,351
TAXCES (YRts)                 18,552      26,364     13,323      17,799     49,242      15,674
NET FAMILY INCOME (YREs)     115,501     100,019     74,336    137,219    253,337       50,677
i ~~~~~~................... ............................ ........*  _...
FAMILY LASBR DAYS                223        324         233         17         549         179
INCOME PER FAMILY
LABOR DAY (YRIs)               518         308        319         776        42          282
C) PROJECT IMPACT SUqMARY
REGION   CtNTRAL     COASTAL    NORTHERN   STHERN    tlHAMA         COASTAL
ITEM                      HIGHLANDS   LOWLANDS  HIGHLANDS   UPLANDS                  UPLANDS
wsuuuuuuau33uaUMNS;u t3S35uu333U33333U3U3UEUUU33U33U3S33U3u3U33uS3U
FAR SIZE                      3.0 he     4.0 h       3.0 he      1.2 h      9.0 he      4.0 h
ASSUMED INVSTMENT COSt        37.600      39,95o     26.95O      14,480     86.950      39,950
FINANCIAL IATE OF RETUMN          50         3a2         462         9          56          272
INCRENTL. FAMILY INCOH        37,101      29,2       27.756      33,S57     93.321      14,318
INCRS. IN FMILY INCOME            412        41S         602        322         58o         392
INCREASE IN INCOME
PER FMILY LANK DAY              232         102        152          32        222         202
SWITCHING VALUE FaR
REDCION IN NE
BENEFITS COCC 122)              *          .70         m          .902        -           SS5
PAYLAc PERIOD Cyr)               2.3         2.6        2.3         1.4        2.1          3.6
vtuod\saapiint



REPUUIC OF TEEN
LAWD AM WTEt COWSERV^ATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC FARUMBTE PRICES
SORGIim                                     SULPNATE
1331      MEAT    MAIZE   (GRAIN) BANANAS COTTON         TSP     UR-E  OF K          UNIT   POLES 3/ TIMER 4/
World Market Price 1/ 5/      S/ton        175      107      101      374       114      183      207      116    S/0\1          81       64
FrIght & Inurance            S/ton          80       80       80       60       80       00        80       80     ''s\3         40       40
CIF 0odeid h                 S/ton         255      187      181      454       194      263      287      196    S/0\3         121      104
Exch_    Rate               YRlso/          12       1        12       12       12        12       12       12 t  YRI/S          12       12
CIF Nodeidah                YRIs/t        3060     224      2172     5451     2328     3156      3444     2352  YRls/m\3       1446     1253
Port & Nandling             Ylts/t          50       50       50       50       50       50        50       50  YRls/003         50       50
erthants, Nargin 2/          URte/t        230      168      163      409      175       237      2558     176  YRls/m\3        105       94
Transport                   Yils/t         294      294      294      294      294       2        2        294   TRlu/M\3       294      294
Economic Market Price       TRLS/t        3634     2756     2679     6204     2847      3737     4046     2872   YRls/m\3      1898     1691
Transport ForarsMrket       TRls/t          52        4       56 56    56       56       56        56       56    RLsIU'\        56       56
Economic Faropate Price      yRts/t       3686     2812     2735     6260     2903      379      4102     2928   1Rls/m03      1954     1747
Economfc Faroate Price      YRIs/kg        3.7      2.8      2.7      6.3      2.9       3.8      4.1      2.9    
1/ Price Forecsts for 1995 Source: International Trade Division, International Economics Department
Report No. U14/90  uPrice Prospects for Major Primry tor  dities    01/91.
2/ 7.S CIF Noduidah value.
3/ Estimated value eqjivalent to 35  internationlly
traded neranti togs.
4/ Estilted valu  e pivalmnt to 8OX value of poles.
5/ To  ctcunt for reducd qiAlity, world merket prices for bananas have been dlsccunted by 25%.
for cotton by 402.
3-I-
Iw



- 79 -
ANNEX 13
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF YMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Economic Value of Fuelwood
Average                   Effective   Effective   Projected   Equivalent
gross       Efficiency   kcals/kg    kcals/       economic    economic
kilocals/                             per unit    price of    value of
kg                                    of fuel     kerosene    fuelvood
per liter
Wood          3.5           7.5         0.26      188/m3 v       -        YRls 236/m3 M
Kerosene     10.4          37.5         3.90      3.2/literg/ YRls 4 v
'  Assuming wood - 720 kg/m3 solid
Effective Kcls/m3 - 0.26 x 720 - 188 approx.      3.5 x 7.5 - 0.26
2. Assuming Kerosene - 0.82 kgs/liter effective
Kcals per liter - 0.82 x 3.9 - 3.2
.i/ Projected international price equivalent in ROY, 1992.
W4 The number of liters of kerosene needed to produce the
equivalent Kcals of 1 m3 of wood (i.e. 188 - 58.75) times
the projected price of kerosene.



REPUILIC OF YEEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
ECOM0IC RATE OF RETURt
YEAR I   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5   YEAR 6   YEAR 7   YEAR 8    YEAR 9  YEAR t0  YEAR 15  YEAR 20
Total Project Costs                29163   109044   119127   108261    88513    16525
Post-Proj Costs (recur)                                                                          5252       5252      5252      5252      5252      5252
.I. Irrigation Studies                        2959
.1. Drip Irri9/Exper Systems                  1430      3672       2928      2726
.1. Watershed and Terraces          2771      3711      8234       8228      2077      1915
Project Costs excid Experi-    26392   100944   107221    97105    83710    14610                5252       5252      5252      5252      5252      5252
................. .................................... ...................... .................................................. ... ........................ ...... .
Irrigation Benefits                    0      4931    17439    35848    87359    68206    77100    82270    85838   126830   126833   126795
Forestry Benefits                      0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0      9033    17297
Total Benefits                          0     4931    17439    35868    87359    68206    77100    82270.   85838   126830   135866   144092
..........-.......-.....-..-----.....--.--  . .------------------------------------------------------------------------9a--------------..................-...-------.......----...-....---------............------....  c o
net Senefits                      -26392   -96013   -89r82   -61257          3649    53596    71648    77018    80586   121578   130614   138840                                   o
Econom c Rate of Return                19X
Not Present Value (12X OCC)   133533
All Figures In 'W00 YRt
wI@



- 81 -
ANNEX 14
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
PreRarati2n
A.l.    Working Paper:   "Water Resources and Engineering", May, 1990
A.2.    Working Paper:   "Irrigation Component", March 1991
A.3.    Working Paper:   "Agricultural Development"
A.4.    Working Paper:   "Forestry and Land Conservation Component", May,
1990
A.5.    Working Paper:   "Pilot Watersheds Rehabilitation Component"
A.6.    Repub. Lc of Yemen: "Second Land and Water Conservation Project",
Report of the FAO/CP Preparation Mission, No.22/91 CP-YEM 34,
dated February 18, 1991 (dealing with proposals for the Southern
Governorates)
&MraiLsl
B.1.    Working Paper: "Agronomist's Mission Report"
B.2.    Detailed Terms of Reference for Proposed Technical Assistance
Consultants
B.3.    Working Paper:   "Management of Natural Woodlands including
Mangrove Forest"
B.4.    Working Paper:   "Project Financial and Economic Analysis"
B.5.    Detailed Cost Tables



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND WATER RESOURCES
ORGANIZATION CHART
DEPUTY
NINISTERS    (3)    PUBLIC RELATIONS         FFC  OF THE
COU"SELLORS    .......        WINIISTER
PLANNING AMD       LEGAL AFFAIRS        CONTROL AND                ASSISTANT DEPUTY (4)
NONI   InaRl"G   |  |             |    INSPECTION                1     INISTERS
DIRETRAE  GENLEtAL                                                                         C
AUTHORITIES AND                          WATER RESOUCES                                                       PLANT PRIDUCT1O
| ORGANZ^ATIOSS
r~~--   -  -        .            ~~~~IRRltAT101 AIM IMIHTEgA"C                                   4       LIVESTOCK RESOURCES       |
FINAMCE AMS ANINISTRATION                OF WATER INSTALLATIONS
PERSOSEL AND TRAINING                    FARN MECHNIZATI           |FO
LAWD tECLAKRTION_ 
__                                        _        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLAU TPRDTECTION
* Uhderscretary for General Adoinistration, one
Asstt. Undersecretary wnd three General Directors
*  Uhdersecretary for Irrigation and Water Resources,
one Asstt. Undersecretary and three General Directors
*  Undersecretary for Plant and Livestock Production,
two Asstt. Undersecretaries and eight General                                        _ DOOENETATION I INFORNATION
Directors
H AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS     | 



- 83 -
CHART 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Water Resources Sector of MAWR
Organization Chart
DEPUTY MINISTER
ASSISTANT DEPUTY MINISTER
DIRECTORATE GENERAL      DIRECTORATE GENERAL        DIRECTORATE GENERAL
WATER RESOURCES        IRRIGATION AND WATER       FARM MECHANIZATION
INSTALLATIONS          AND LAND RECLAMATION
DEPARTMENTS              DEPARTMENTS                DEPARTMENTS
TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT|   f IRRIGATION PROJECTS          GENERAL SERVICES
GENERAL SERVICES/   1    STUDIES/PLANNING             STUDIES/PLANNING
COORDINATION
WATER LEGISLATION        GENERAL SERVICES/           LAND RECLAMATION/
COORDINATION               COORDINATION
CONSERVATION/ENVIRON-       REMOTE SENSING           LAND CLASSIFICATION
MENT PROTECTION
STUDIES/RESEARCH           SUPERVISION/             FARM MECHANIZATION
EXECUTION
METEOROLOGY               ENGINEERING
WATER RESOURCES   J          SURVEY



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
Ormanization-of DGFR (Central) and Regional ForesL Services
before and after Project Implementation
A: DGFR (Central) Organization before Pro.iect ImDlementation
Director General
(Veterinary)                                                       AREA
(T/A: Chief Technical Adviser) -------------------------------------
I                                                     Forest Research
1/     Monitoring & Evaluation
Graduate
(T/A: Monitorina S Evaluation)
A P 0 
Afforestation               Forest Nurseries                     Service & Coordination                      Natural Woodland                        Rangeland
& Desertification                Department                          Department                                Department                               Department
Control Department
Graduate                       Graduate                            Graduate                                     Graduate                             Graduate
(agriculture)                  (horticulture)                       (forestry)                                   (forestry)                          (agriculture)
I/   Forest Nurseries               j    Forest Extension &                     1/   Preparation of
Information                                  Management Plans
Graduate                           Graduate                                      Graduate
(TA: Forestry Nurservman)                (TA: Extionsionist)                       (TA: Woodland Manager)
A P O
J   Existing TA
o b
t h



B: DGFR (Central) Orqanization after Project ImDlementation
Director General
(TIA: Chief Technical Adviser)
Service b Coordination
Department
Monitoring 8 Evaluation
|                                                        AREA
Graduate  ------------------------------------------- Forest Research
(T/A: Assistant to CTA)                                               1.  hamar
(UN Volunteer)                                                   2. Taiz
3. Al Kod
4. Seiyum
Afforestation &                Forest Nurseries                  Watershed Management                  Natural Woodland                 Rangeland
Desertification                   Department                           Department                          Department                    Department
Control Department
Graduate                       Graduate                            6raduate                            Graduate                      Graduate
I                              l                                    | I  Ies  isiE
Sand Stabilization            Public Tree Planting                   Rehabilitation                    Management Planning
Southern Governorates             All Regions                         of Terraces                       and Inventory
I                                  I
Graduate                          Graduate
2 Technicians                     2 Technicians
Cartoarapher                      Cartographer
Ta1z
Watershed Rehabilitation             Wildlife Officer
HaJJah & Madinat Alskark              1 Technician
I Technician Mangroves                                        ta 
Al Luhaya 
I.1W



C: Reaional Forest Service Oraanization before Project Imolementation
SOUTNERN                    S
llNW£A  181 jlQfTERN                             C£hNTML                          WILMDS LERATES
Ccovm nt               9rorates f=vrnorates                                6mmorQOrats                     Govenrte          ernorates
Tih                   Narib                                               Sarnae tpart)                   Ibb                          Lahe.
Al Jal f                  Saddah                    Ohamar                          Taizz                         Abyan
Haijah                    Al Nuimit                                                    Shbsa
Al heide
Fort   Stffff                                                              Forest Staff                    Formet  Staff                Foes taff
1 graduate            2 graduates               2 graduates                1 graduate                      0 graduates                  1 graduate
(forestry)            (agriculture)             (agriculture)              (agriculture)                                                (agriculture)
3 graduates
(agriculture)         I technicians             0 tesnmician              4 technic1ans                    4 technicians                2 technIc1ans
10 technicians                                  S IHL. Agricul.
School
IgaU- on Sff          Extens10r Staff            Extens1Rl Staff           Extension Staff                 Extensi3on Staft             Etension StaffI
None                  NoMe                      lone                      None                             None                         Hone am
forest Nurserin: 6  Fort Nursr1es: 2            forest Nurseris: 5        Forest Nurseries: 5              forest Nurseries: 3          Forest Nurseries: 5
Zabid                 60ern. Far. Narib         Nonsanah                  Sir Al Quhun                     Varazan                      Ohalaa
Al Husseiniah         Al Jawf                    Sanawan                   Al Thawrah                      Al Hakha                     Lahej
Al Zohra                                        Al Naghash                 Rassabah                        Al Salaba                    Al Kod
6eailsha                                        A) Nahwelt                Al VJhobar                                                    Nismb
Al Kokha                                         Beni Quets               Al 8.1da mugub
Sajil)
Rearch Staff          Rearch Sltaff             Reearch Staff             Research Staff                   Research Staff               Research Staff
None                  hone                      None                      Dham                             Tatz                         Al Kod
2 graduates (forestry)          2 graduates (forestry)       2 graduates (forestry)
2 technicians                   2 technicians                I graduate (wildlife)
I graduate (range mnagement)
2 graduates (agriculture)
2 technicians



0: Regional forest Service Oroanization after Prolect ImIlntation
SCUTUM                      s Mn
Tlli_"n                                         Saa'  Part)                Su'  (Prt)                      Ibb                          Aht"
Al Jf                     Sadh                      Ohr                             Taz                           Abyam
Hsjab                     Al NIalt                                                      Shl_
Al Bids
Intertiorm  will   Interent1ons mi                            , 
be mdby the pro-  be sb at lrib by                                                     2                               1I
posed IFAD project   the Eastern Pegion        F[rest  Stff                F        Staff                  Forfest Staff                Foest S tf
DM)lopent Project         I graduate (forestry)    I gradute (forestry)             I graduate (for stry)         I graduate (forestry)
(restructured)
£xmteson Stff             Extens hn St£                   Ex$ensten Stf                 Extenons0  St&f
I Nola SNS                I Kale SNS                      I Sale ShS                    I Nale So
I feate SNS               I Fmsale SKS                    I Female SRI                  I Fe     NS
forest  ursertie: 5       Fared furse ri!s: 5             Foet Nurseries: 3             fy!  urs rres: 5
gla Forest nursery        Ejjt Forest nursery             5 Forestry techniclans       QgE Forest nursery
at Najjah                 at Nadinat Alshark              tl per nursery)              at Goac
6 Forestry Technicins   6 Forestry technSclans                                          6 forestry tesihncians
(I per nursery)           (I per nursery)                                               (1 per nursery)
Veh1cles          ~~~Vehicles                      Veh1cles                      Vehicles
Pick-ups: graduate        Pick-ups: graduate              Pick-ups: graduate            Pick-ups: graduate
Hotorcycles: Tech.        Notorcycles: Tech.              Notorcycles: Tech.            Notorcycles: Tech.
One 6-ton truck           One 6-ton truck                 One 6-ton trucK.              One 6-ton truck
Watershed Nan mae ent     Vatershed Nanaaement                                          Sand Fixation
Staff _toff                                                                             Staff
1 graduate (forestry)    I graduate (forestry)                                         3 graduates (forestry)
6 techniclans
Y    Niolual staff requ1irent                                                                                                                                       '
10



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                       CHART
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT                               Page 1 of 2
Sunmary of implementation Schedule
Year 11991/921 192/1993    1993/1994    1994/1995    1995/1996    1996/1997    1997/'998   1998/991
Activity                                      I------- ------------ ------   ----------------- ------------               ------- I      I------lI
Quarter   3  4   1 2  3  4        2  5  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2 3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2
-    _ _      . .   .   1_                  _ _ _ I  -- - - - - - -   -   - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Pre-effectiveness activities
(a) IDA Credit Approvat
(b) Goverrnent of ROY Approval Procedure       ..... ...           I            I            i
(c) Pre-Start up Activities                  I *                                I            I                          I
(d) Credit Effectiveness                     I       IX            I            I            I            I             i
2. Civil Works
(a) Buildings                                                      I
Surveys & Design, Contr. Docs & Bidding    ... ............
Construction                                                    ***********            I******
(b) Spate and Bank Protection
Surveys & Design, Contr. Docs & Bidding.... -   -   - -
Construction                             I                                                ************     ************
(c) Hassan Diversion                                                                        
Surveys & Design, Contr. Docs & Bidding                         .                        I 
Construction      C**tr*                                                                   ********** ***********V *
(d) Groundwater Piped Conveyance System
Surveys & Desigr,, Contr. Docs & Bidding ..   .......... ................. .... .   
Construction                                 ....I                    ************** I ************ ************ *****                   i
te) BorehoLes for Monitoring                                                                                                                                   O
Surveys & Design, Contr. Docs & Bidding             ..........                                                                                            OD
Construction                             I                     I *   *        * *1
3- Machinery and Equipment
(a) Spate & Bonk Protection              |              ...||***********2* .................   
Spare Parts (existing Plant)                 .... .. I                      i * * * *******I***********i************i*****
(b) Groundwater Piped Conveyance System      I  ....I.  .       .    *********
(c) Agricultural Development                 I    :      ::: 1.                  I |         I .          I |           I
|(d)   Office    Equipment              |....           .  .** ***|** **********I**|......    .....    .....................  
(e) Water Monitoring                                              I ************I*I                       I }                        I
(f) Forestry & Land Conservation             I  .... ..******..........                          *********
14. Vehicles
(a) Water Sector and Irrigation Development          I ::....:I  I*********** I                           I
(b) Forestry & Land Conservation                                                               i............
Cc) Agricuttural Development                 I |                                                          I |
M5. aterials                                  I
(a) Spate & Bank Protection             |        * --.I-....******   ********I*.*.***I*******I* 
(b) Gabions for Forestry & Land Conservation         I             I.j... -                  j |          I t           I            I
(c) Grcu ndw    a ter Conveyance System          .   ............                                            
I(d) Localized Irrigat-,on & Expermtt Systems   .........................----************************    l
(e) Forestry & Land Conservation                      .....************************..
I . . .,-.     .              . ----- - - -                                                                              I             I       ;-°-5a
M:\ROY\NLWCI\IMPSCHED             X Implementation Date    .....  Pre-contract activities (preparation for non-contract work)                t-h i-3
04/19/92                          *****   Contract stage (implementation of non-contract works)                     t|>



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                      CHART
UID AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT                               Page 2 of 2
Summary of Implementation Schedule
Year j1991/921 1992/1993    1993/194    1994/1995    19,5/1996    19io/1997    1997/1998  11998/991
Activity                         I-~~~~~~~~~------ ------------ ------------ ---------- ----------- --------.-- ------------- -------
Activity                                      I       II                        I           __ 1-         _I  I9--1-.-I
6. Forestry & Land Conservation Work
(a) Sand Dune Fixation                                              .....******I************************I************I************
(b) Shelter Belts             t         F            I .                                                                           I
(c) Bank Protection, Road Ptantation & Flood| ...                                                          A kV * ***I
Protection & Afforestation
(d) Nursery Establishment                      ..... ............
(e) Watershed Management                                       ...              ************1************ ************1*********
(f)  terraces  (Aerial  Photo)                          ****         ..............................  
7- Training                  |                     ...I .       ** ************I************I*t**********i************************I*****|
8. Studies                                                  .......**********
9. Technical Assistance
Wa) Water Resources Sector
Chief Technical Advisor (CTA)           I        I        xxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxlo.xxxxxxx
Senior Irrigation Engineer                       I                xxxxxxxx|xxxxxxxxxxxx|xxxxxxxxxxxx|xxxx
Water Resources Specialist                             xxxxxx xxxxxx       Ixxxxxxxxxxxxl  xxxxxx   I  xxxxxx
Senior Hydrologist                                      xxxx    xxxx            xxxx                 I i
Hydrogeologist                          j                    j xxx             xxx x        xxxx
Hydro-Meteorotogist                                                    xx         xx           xx                            
Data Analyst/N&E                        j        Ixxx                      I   xxx      I   xxx                                                           OD
| Oas Engineer                                                   xxxxxx   I xxx         lxxx                      I
ST Consultant                           I                         xxx      I xx I             xx     I    xx                   I
Hydrologist (UNV)                                             xxxxxxxxxxxxjxxxxxxxxxxx               ;
Systems Analyst/N&E (UNV)               |          |                xxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxl  xxxxxx                  I
Irrigation Engineer (UNV)                       I          xx xxxxxxxxxxxx'xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx  I             I       I
(b) Agricutture                                     I
Irrigation Agronomist             ,                          |xxxxxx      I    xx       I    xx      I    xx      I  xx
Agricultural Economist                                           x               x
Educator, Irrigation Agronomy                                                    x
(c) Forestry                                I       I                                                                 I
Chief Technical Advisor (CTA)                                 I    ixxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx|x   <xxxxxxI
Assistant to CTA (UNV)                  I        I            Ixxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx              xxxxxxxxxxxx
Woman Extension Specialist                                     xxx         I x                       I            I
Faurna/Ftora                                                   x           jxxx            x                      I   x
Sand Stabilization Expert                                       xx         I x               x       I    x            x
Woodland Management Expert                              xxxxxixxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx         I                         I
Woodland Management (UNV)               I        I                         I            I |    xxxxxxjxxxx x      xxxxxxxxxxxx xxx    I
Woodland Sociologist (tocal)                                xjxxx          lxxxx        I                         I            I
(d) Watershed/Terraces (Pilot)                      I             1            I     I                   Ii
Chief Technical Coordinator (CTC)                            Ixxxxxxx                                       x
Watershed Engineer                      I        I         xxix            I XXXXx          x               x           x                 
Terraces Rehabilitation Expert                             xxI       x    I                          I            I            I       1           3 c
ST Consuttant                                   I            I  xxx        I   xxx                   I            I            I       I           (D
Assistant to CTC (UNY)                          I             I  xxxxxxxxxIxxxxxxxxxxxxIxxxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxx        j       I
I-.                                                                     ------------- I------- I-
N:\ROY\NNWCI\IMPSCHED  X Implementation Date       ..... Dre-contract activities (preparat.on for non-contract wo.k)             wh q
04/19J92  x One Staff Month         *     Contract stage (implementation of non-contract works)



IBRD 23186
PROJECT:
ndr                                  SPATE PROJECT AREAS BY WADIS
I  _    dei(                    | |           SPATE GROUND WATER PROJECT AREAS BY REGIONS
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                              A                                                       REHABILITATION OF TERRACES
LAN D AN D WAT E R C O N S E RVAT I OIN PROJECT                                                                                                             WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6SAND DUNE FIXATION AND FLOOD CONTROL (SPATE)
f8'  /  /       '        REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOUNDARIES
/  ' '/              0    SELECTED TOWIS AND VILLAGES
® (\  ) GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
SAUDI ARABIA                        /9    NATIONAL CAPITAL
Thamud                                +     AIRPORTS
/70 r   SAA1)AFJ   _°Mfaf0 {                                                                                                 PORTS
0%0"                                                              ~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~AL MANRAHWAI
> t SAADAH '" >/6 / ,                                    XJ < p | /\1. MA(IRAH l l GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
fl--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
s _ /        gs,, JE1                                          /               />od'I                                                            -        __                  .       .___ _ __ _ __ _
Maydi                                   Al- JAVVF        Im                                              IJADRAMAWT                   -                 -4d                      -
\ HAJJAH            °                          .                          v                         T      Wod-                                            +AL GHAYDAH                                    6
16'                     SANTm
0            ^AH                                  O /  TabL4 /                  f W, |o,. k'. .
\r-)   L  w  Jih  =h J>,It; ,  g  O  X  2 . S EoyhH ,, ,h,> ,c,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                              -',                                ,,h~d'o5,4~n l.
g~~aIif ZaydtyO~  HWRyd   rSAI4
RED  Xrdud . °<  IWAHWEE   )            g                 SHAI3 WA H
SBHODiElDill  NkboO     t._  fioWtribNuqub        ;                 Al Maghaim0    Alud                        GOYO ~
2  .5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
HODuDAH°   abid DHAMAR  8                       ATAQ                                                                                                                   -d Ph0
i i 32! DHAMAR X fv _   Wodi                    o$             ArRawdoh _/
SE      <                      > ,>               O          Nisob           <            >A=r_n                                         AGlUTUxLN!RI.=OEIUIIRT   EAA-MdA-Z.-H                               f
a   r  4 4';  k                 l}; O  =                                                                 3 T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REIOHALA DEVELOPMENT A GENCiES: 
SEA  /  ---~~~~~  0Al,~~~'fr~~~o  AL  Klhawra'~lds HWwa A,                                                                                                                            '
lB                                                                                                                                 a h                                      Idi LA E  /-A AL  L  E  5AGRICULTURALDAE ELPEN ETHORGANIZAAT D -
16*         Udayn 188                          /       /:  Abadon                                                                    2 EASTERN REGIONIB    AGIUTRA  EEOMETATOIT  nti.cue nproject
I'fZad'a0            ®    Q.1'f
0A         SJ hawah
S ~ ~ ~~~~, \-~~ xhI    I hs              NJIBAR                                                                                        6 WADI TUBAN DEVELOPMENT
\7,                                                                                                                                                                                            = ,//   LAHEJ i  ADEv  7 W@ ABYAN DLOWA NV P
ETHIm  s_   ADEN                                O     50    100   150    200                                E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WADI BElIHAN DEYELOPMENT                  -.|
RE       tX                                                                                 KlLOMEtERSH59AWADIHADRWAWTADP(notiWclud9WIARAoD(tildHpre)oSOT
'42'           )6*'                                          46                                  48'                                                                      57'                                  54'     '' 
Qusa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUT19



