. Document of                         A  Af v
The World Bank   FILE   urW
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3240-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
March 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution aud may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980          April 1981
Currency Unit                             Yemeni Dinars (YD)           YD
US$i      =                        YD 0.345               0.345
YD I                               US$ 2.90               2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to Marcb 31                 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31              (1975)
January 1 to December 31            (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
HOC       =         Ministry of Construction
MOE       =         Ministry of Education
MOL       =         Ministry of Labor
PDRY      =         People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PIU       =         Project Implementation Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount;       SDRs 5.3 million (about US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA
Project
Description:  The project would (a) help alleviate urgent manpower needs by
providing buildings and equipment for the training of skilled
workers and technicians and by improving the methods and data
base available to manpower planners; (b) upgrade the skills and
knowledge of existing poorly qualified teacbers and increase the
output of new primary teachers; and (c) improve the quality of
school buildings by establishing school building maintenance
units in two regional education directorates and by determining
urgent school furniture and equipment needs. Specifically, the
credit would finance construction, equipment and furniture for
(i) a commercial tecbnical institute at Aden (750 places), (ii)
an agricultural technical institute at Saber (450 places), (iii)
an in-service teacher upgrading center at Aden (630 places), and
(iv) a regional primary teacher training institute at Seiyun
(590 places).   Two fully-equipped mobile building maintenance
units and technical assistance for two studies would also be
financed by the credit. Tecbnical assistance relating to the
above project items would be financed by the Government througb
bilateral sources under ongoing programs.
The project would help to strengthen both male and female
training and primary education in remote areas. The
introduction of a school building maintenance system in the two
main governorates is likely to provide important benefits. The
studies would help to improve planning mechanisms and provide a
detailed assessment of school furniture and equipment needs.
The project does not face any special risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:l/
US$ million
Local         Foreign         Total
Construction, equipment and
furniture for the commercial
technical institute
and for the primary teacher
training institute                  4.1              4.5             8.6
Extension, equipment and
furniture for the agricultural
technical institute and the
in-service teacher upgrading
center                               1.7             2.1             3.8
Equipment for the mobile
maintenance units                    0.0             0.2             0.2
Technical assistance                   0.3             1.3              1.6
Pbysical Contingencies                 0.6             0.7             1.3
Price contingencies                    3.1             2.0             5.1
Total Project Cost                     9.8            10.8            20.6
1/  Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
Financing Plan:
Government                 9.8             4.8            14.6
IDA                        0.0             6.0             6.0
Total                     9.8            10.8            20.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
US$ million
Bank
FY83    FY84   FY85    FY86        FY87
Annual                           0.5      1.5      2.1      1.7     0.2
Cumulative                       0.5      2.0      4.1     5.8      6.0
Estimated Completion Date:            December 31, 1986
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3709-YDR of February 25, 1982



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 5.3 million (about US$6.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to
help finance a Third Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen: Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A country data
sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.       Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a planned
economic system. The principal objectives of the Government have been: (a)
to satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer
goods, shelter, employment, health care and other social services; (b) to
develop the production capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture,
fisheries, manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the
infrastructure sectors, i.e., transport, power and telecommunications; (d)
to raise education standards, emphasizing technical and bigher education;
and (e) to increase exports of domestic products.
4.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on a
strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden
(banking, insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control.
Subsequent investment in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral
exploration has given the public sector a dominant influence over industrial
activities. Two agrarian reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have
fundamentally changed the land tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal
holdings. Simultaneously, new farm organizations--state farms and
cooperatives--were created to facilitate the introduction of modern
cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing and consumer cooperatives
were also established. More recently, two of the remaining foreign-owned
installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum) and an international
communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were transferred by mutual
consent to the Government of PDRY.



- 2 -
5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government,
and was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives.
But the private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have
regained some strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to
account for almost half of the nation's gross output of goods and services
(excluding government services). Private activity can be found in almost
every sector and is strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade
and transport. The volume of private investment--mainly in housing--has
risen sharply since the mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public
investment. Cooperation between public and private capital is encouraged in
some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures
are now active. Foreign private investors have been invited to participate
in oil exploration and the fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law
has recently been promulgated providing incentives to private investors and
encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as tourism and
construction.
6.       Since the early 1970's the country has made significant progress in
a number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential
consumer goods were increased largely through higher imports. School
enrollment rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health
services improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power
stations built, and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and
manufacturing expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral
exploration while more recently, there was an upsurge in private house
construction. Rising investments led to a rapid expansion of the local
construction industry. Overall economic expansion togetber with net
emigration abroad not only eliminated open unemployment but created some
labor shortages.
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and
by a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para.
17). Exports on the other hand displayed little dynamism reflecting in
large part the low levels of capacity utilization especially in agriculture
and fisheries. Notwithstanding large investments in these sectors,
agricultural production stagnated in the last 5-6 years, while fish catches
registered a large increase in 1980 after declining sharply in 1978 and
1979. However, since an increasing amount of product can be sold in the
free market, the official output statistics may increasingly understate the
level of production and thus the performance of the agriculture and
fisheries sectors.
8.       The second five-year plan continues to pursue the overall
development objectives outlined in para. 3 above. The plan was originally
envisaged to cover the 1979-83 period. However, following a recommendation
by the Council on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize
their five-year development plans, the second five-year plan commenced in
1981. The Plan proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980
prices) for 1981-85 of which 19 percent is to be spent for energy, 17
percent for agriculture and fishing, 6 percent for manufacturing, 18 percent



- 3 -
for transport and communications, 8 percent for education and health and 18
percent for housing. The plan assumes that about $1.06 billion (72 percent)
will be financed through foreign capital, of which approximately $400
million had already been committed at the beginning of the plan period. The
production targets are ambitious. They call for an overall rate of growth
of 10 percent per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13 percent for
industry, 9 percent for agriculture and 16 percent for fisheries, and 9
percent for transport and communications. Production growth is to be
achieved not only through new investments but also through improved
utilization of existing capacities.
9.       In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortages of manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, altbough
substantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through
higher yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture.
The narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
10.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately
trained manpower with bilateral and multilateral tecbnical assistance,
including assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In
addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become
increasingly technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher
education abroad and the establishment of technical training institutions in
PDRY, the country is now generating an increasing flow of technically
trained people who could gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower.
Shortages of unskilled labor exist mainly in the construction sector and
could be eased through joint ventures with foreign contractors.
11.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages of
trained manpower the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control wbich
causes distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these
deep-seated problems are in sight although the Government has recently
started to pursue a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for
farmers and fishermen. For example, state procurement prices for most
agricultural crops and fish have been substantially increased accompanied by
measures permitting farmers and fishermen, both as individuals and in
cooperatives to sell a large portion of their output on the free market at
prices substantially above state procurement prices.



-4-
Recent Economic Developments
12.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment whicb
increased from $57 million in 1974/75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers many of whom preferred to work
in the private sector where much higher wages are being paid. However, in
1980 development expenditures increased in absolute terms reflecting the
special efforts of the Government to complete ongoing projects, but in real
terms they were still substantially below 1977 levels. Current government
expenditures for education, health and more recently defense, continued to
grow through 1979 both in nominal and real terms.
13.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have
accelerated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated
to have grown at an annual average rate of about 9 percent during 1974-79,
compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-73. The major growth
sectors were government services, construction, manufacturing and transport.
Agricultural output, on the other hand, stagnated and fish production
apparently declined. To some extent the disappointing performance of
agriculture and fisheries was the result of labor migration from these sectors
to higher paid jobs within the country (i.e. construction) or abroad. But it
also reflects the factors mentioned in para. 11 above.
14.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation. New
taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition, profits
of public enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public sector
income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $318 million in 1980. This still
left a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $254 million in
1980.
15.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Total foreign aid inflows rose from $66
million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 disbursements dropped to $87
million due in part to the decline in public investments. However, foreign
aid inflows once again rose sharply in 1980 reaching $169 million.
16.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $650 million in 1980. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports in 1980 represented food and



beverages, 22 percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent
machinery and equipment.
17.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a minor
share of the import bill. In 1980, they were estimated to be about $38
million or some 6 percent of commodity imports. Much more important than
commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by labor
income and private transfers. The latter rose rapidly since the mid-1970s,
increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $350 million in 1980. This has been
due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to additional
emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized "own exchange" imports,
allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher interest
rates to non-resident bank depositors. Fast growing exchange earnings and
increasing disbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in recent years to
cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The
latter rose from $67 million at end 1974 to $234 million at end 1980,
equivalent to about 4 months of the imports.
18.      Foreign reserves increased moderately in 1980.  This probably
reflects rising imports and a slow-down in the growth of remittances. The
volume of imports is reported to have risen, especially for consumer goods and
fuels; in addition, import prices increased further. Labor income and private
transfers on the other hand, have grown at a slower pace as immigration and
wages tended to stabilize in the oil exporting countries. Rising import
prices intensified inflationary pressures within PDRY; these pressures were
reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels especially in the private
construction sector, and by growing domestic bank financing of public sector
expenditures.
External Debt
19.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1980
amounted to $1,241 million, of which $499 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $920 million or 72 percent of total commitments with the
USSR providing the bulk ($573 million), followed by China ($126 million),
other Eastern European countries ($150 million), and Arab countries ($71
million).  Multilateral flows amounted to $321 million including $197 million
from Arab Funds, $86 million from IDA and $36 million from IMF. The terms of
all loans are highly concessionary. In addition, PDRY has received $255
million in grant assistance during 1974/80, mostly from Arab countries.
20.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1980 were $15
million or 4.4 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from exports of
goods and services. However, PDRY's debt service obligations have started to
rise and are projected to increase further in future years. This will exert
additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view of the
above, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For
the same reason, local cost financing by IDA is justified.



- 6 -
21.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of all
the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial
Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the
nationalized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was
submitted to the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon
after with three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized
with three additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in late 1977,
early 1978, and in 1979, with a development finance company in mid-1978, and
with a bank in 1980. Dialogue with the one remaining claimant company of
which IDA is aware has however been very slow since there is still no
agreement on a basis on which to settle this claim.  The Government professes
its desire to reach mutually acceptable settlements with all claimant
companies, and has expressed its willingness to consider such settlement
outside the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
22.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the key
fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition, new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be
an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
23.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member of
IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. To date, IDA has had 18 operations in PDRY,1/ for a total commitment
1/ Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under Credits
560 and 1038.



-7-
of $108.2 million. Of this total, $32.8 million has assisted the transport
sector, $35.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $14.0 million the
power and energy sector, $9.4 million the education sector, and $16.7 million
the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY has suffered from
delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have included
the time required to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in
recruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in attracting foreign
contractors, inexperience in project mobilization, and in recent years
shortages of both skilled and unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost
all cases being properly implemented even if delayed. Disbursement
performance under IDA credits in PDRY has been consistently good during the
past two years. It is superior to other countries in the Middle East and
compares favorably with some of the best performers in the Bank. This trend
is expected to continue. Lessons learned from experience in earlier projects
are being taken into account in our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  A
second power project is under preparation, as is a third fisheries project, a
first health and nutrition project, and a follow-up agricultural project in
Wadi Hadramawt. Project possibilities in industry, transport, education and
water supply are also under consideration. As in the recent past, the costs
of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA
can provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other
development agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From
FY71 through FY81, IDA has been successful in securing through its projects
about $123 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million;
Kuwait Fund $26 million; Arab Fund $46.2 million; Islamic Development Bank $11
million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16 million, OPEC Fund $14.5 million, IFAD $6 million
and EEC $3 million), thus helping to increase the inflow of development aid to
the country.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
25.      Following independence in 1967, the Government established the
Ministry of Education (MOE) with six regional directorates and introduced a
policy of extending a modern education system to all areas of the country.
Education and training at all levels are now public and free. In 1977 the MOE
initiated a series of reforms to improve the quality of the education system
after a period of rapid expansion. These include more systematic vocational
and technical training, new curricula for all grade levels, improved teacher
training and a new educational structure that is similar to those in many
Middle East countries. Formal education is now provided for up to three years
of kindergarten, eight years of basic (primary) schooling (grades 1-8; ages
7-14), four years of academic secondary schooling (grades 9-12; ages 15-18)
with alternative two-year skilled training (grades 9-10; ages 15-16) and
five-year technical training (grades 9-13; ages 15-19) at this level, and an



-8-
adequate range of university programs. In addition, other Ministries and a
number of public corporations offer both pre-service and on-the-job upgrading
courses for employees.
26.      Given the level of its economic development, PDRY has achieved a
large measure of success in expanding educational opportunities. Total
enrollments in the school system rose from about 94,000 in 1968 to more than
312,500 in 1980, representing a high average annual increase of about 17
percent. The firm policies of the Government to promote education and
training have resulted in high enrollment ratios of 65 percent for basic
(primary) and 22 percent for secondary schooling, in comparison to about 33
percent and 3 percent, respectively, in the neighboring Yemen Arab Republic.
The participation rates for girls at these levels were 30 percent and 28
percent, respectively, which is higher than in most other countries of the
region. Of the 10,700 teachers in basic and secondary cycle schools, about 35
percent and 23 percent, respectively, are female. Access to education both
for females as well as those living in the more remote rural areas remains a
problem. Thus the Government is intensifying its efforts towards full
enrollment through the widespread application of co-education, the
introduction of special financial incentives in remote areas, and the
enactment of laws prohibiting marriage prior to the completion of primary
education.
Issues and Problems
27.      Vocational and technical training have only recently received
emphasis in spite of the fact that severe labor shortage, particularly in the
skilled worker and technician categories, is one of the most acute problems
faced by the Government. In 1980, only 7 percent of secondary students
participated in vocational and technical programs, largely through lack of
opportunity due to inadequate training facilities. Shortages of professional,
technician and skilled manpower will act as a constraint on national
development tbrough the next decade. Recent government statistics suggest
that annually through 1990, about 4,000 skilled workers, 1,300 technicians and
800 managers/professionals will be needed. The present output from existing
institutions is only about 1,300 skilled workers, 400 technicians and 500
professionals. In view of this problem, the Government has given high
priority in the Second Five-Year Development Plan (SFYP) to the training of
skilled and technician level workers in the formal education system. Within
the plan period, nine two-year skilled worker training schools and three
technician institutes are expected to be constructed. The proposed project
would finance three of these with an annual output of 140 skilled workers and
160 technicians which will complement the three skilled level centers financed
under the previous education project. In addition, other ministries are
increasing their training capacity and improving their ability to provide
on-the-job training for their workers. More attention will need to be given
to this type of training in the future.
28.      Manpower data are imprecise.  Little use has been made of the limited
employment survey conducted in 1977 or of the national census data from 1973.
In view of the considerable outflow of workers from the country, there is an



urgent need to obtain more accurate and up-to-date data on the labor force.
The Government is aware of this deficiency. The proposed project would
finance a manpower planning study which would also assist the Government in
designing a labor force survey and in developing an occupational
classification and new wage scale.
29.      The low quality of teacher preparation wbich is particularly apparent
in the more remote regions of the country has resulted in about 70 percent of
basic (primary) cycle and 30 percent of secondary cycle teachers being
untrained or under-qualified. Current in-service upgrading programs, with
bilateral assistance, while useful are nevertheless inadequate to meet these
needs. With the recent appointment of a director of in-service upgrading, a
new series of programs is being initiated and an upgrading institute is
included in this proposed project. The Government proposes eventually to
upgrade pre-service teacher training to the post-secondary level. While the
overall annual demand for new teachers during the next decade will largely be
met by the capacity of existing institutions, a regional imbalance exists in
the hinterland particularly in the three remoter governorates where there is a
shortage of teachers for small rural schools in isolated communities.  The
proposed project therefore includes a primary teacher training institute to
serve these regions.
30.      The quality of schooling is hampered by poorly trained teachers,
meager instructional aids, lack of rudimentary furniture and equipment and
poor and ineffective maintenance of buildings. Approximately 70 percent of
basic (primary) cycle schools lack furniture and more than 50 percent of
schools occupy non-purpose-built rented facilities. The provision of schools
is difficult in the remoter areas, two-thirds of the female age-group still do
not attend school and the MOE lacks experienced supervisors and headmasters.
Regional inequalities continue. Conscious of these problems, the MOE has
increased the responsibilities of the regional education directorates and has
recently established small school building maintenance units in them.
However, improvements in physical facilities and access to schooling need to
be based on planned investment. To this end, the proposed project is
supporting an inventory of school facilities and a maintenance program for
school buildings in two pilot regions.
31.      Training at all levels is needed to improve the quality of planning,
administration, and management.  This would assist the Government to implement
its development investment program. As a first step, the Ministry of Labor
(MOL) has recently constructed with bilateral aid a Management Services Center
(MSC) to initiate both pre-service and upgrading programs. However, the MSC
is currently handicapped by lack of staff, programs, furniture and equipment.
To assist the Government in more clearly specifying the likely demand for
managerial training a pre-investment study will be financed by the Government
of Kuwait. The MSC would serve all ministries. The MOE would also utilize
its own in-service teacher upgrading center to upgrade its own administrators,
planners and clerks. At the same time, the training of key people abroad
should continue under ongoing bilateral agreements.



- 10 -
Educational Finance
32.      The education system will continue to expand over the next decade.
This will place an increasing burden on the economy. In 1980, education
expenditures represented an average of $200 per student per annum.
Continued support from bilateral sources and new involvement by Middle East
Funds and other agencies will be needed to support the proposed capital
expenditures. The level of education expenditures is expected to increase
from 10.5 percent of total government expenditures in 1980 to 14 percent in
1985. Recurrent costs for education (17 percent of total recurrent costs) are
relatively low; while only 3 percent of the Government's total capital budget
was allocated to education in 1980. By 1985, these expenditures are expected
to rise to 20 percent of recurrent expenditures and 4.5 percent of capital
expenditures, both of which are feasible and acceptable. No adverse effect on
the proposed project is anticipated in view of the high priority attached to
vocational and technical education (see para. 33), and the relatively small
percentage of the recurrent education budget which will be required.
Education Policy
33.      The Government's education and training policies have had two major
objectives: (i) expanding vocational and technical training opportunities to
help meet the country's manpower requirements; and (ii) improving the quality,
efficiency and coverage of schooling. The programs in the Second Five Year
Plan continue to emphasize these general objectives.
34.      With respect to meeting manpower requirements, the Government plans
to treble the annual number of graduates coming out of the various vocational
and technical training schools from 1,600 in 1978 to 4,800 in 1985. This
involves a complementary reduction in the number of entrants to academic
secondary schools. This objective is both desirable and realistic given the
shortages of trained manpower in PDRY (see para. 27).
35.      With respect to its second general objective, the Government has
revised its original aim of full enrollment for all children in the basic
(primary) cycle age-group by 1985 and is discussing the establishment of a
more realistic target date of 1995. An immediate objective is the doubling of
the number of seven-year olds entering school by 1985. Basic (primary)
schooling is to receive 38 percent of total education expenditures under the
Second Five Year Plan to help achieve this. It may be difficult to reach this
objective as it would require the immediate construction of schools in the
remoter villages and a higher female enrollment ratio than is likely to be
achieved. During the past five years, the internal efficiency of the system
has improved as measured by retention and repeater rates. The development of
new curricula, the improvements in teacher upgrading and the production of
adequate supplies of textbooks are providing the basis for maintaining and
improving quality.
36.      Among the Government's other objectives related to education, the
program to eliminate illiteracy continues to be stressed. The literacy rate
has been improved from about 10 percent in 1970 to an estimated 40 percent a
decade later. This has been a major accomplishment due largely to the



- 11 -
emphasis on literacy training in public enterprises and the requirement that
everyone seeking employment should bave completed eight years of schooling or
possess a literacy certificate. However the program could be extended and
improved in quality. The Government has abandoned its earlier ambitious
target of full adult literacy by 1982 and is now aiming to achieve this goal
before the year 2000.
37.      University education continues to claim about one-fifth of the
education budget. In only ten years of operation, the University of Aden has
established six major faculties and in 1980 enrolled nearly 3,500 students.
Quantitative expansion is now being wisely limited with a planned optimal
enrollment of about 5,000 by 1985. Lack of qualified Yemeni staff to teach at
this level is a major constraint which is being recognized and assisted by
extensive bilateral fellowship programs.
Past Lending for Education
38.      Since 1972, IDA has pursued a dialogue witb the MOE which has
emphasized the improvement of quality in the formal education system and the
provision of vocational and technical training. Lending for education began
in 1974 with approval of a US$ 5.4 million credit (494-YDR). This credit was
closed on December 31, 1981, a two year delay. A project completion report is
being prepared. Difficulties in negotiating contracts with consultant
architects and with UNESCO delayed the start of the project. Architectural
design development was interrupted by the introduction of the 1977 educational
reforms which required prolonged discussions with the Government to clarify
curricular changes and their applicability to project schools. In general,
the project successfully extended teacher training opportunities in two
regions, introduced pre-vocational curricula in the upper grades of the basic
cycle and in two selected secondary schools, trained semi-skilled and skilled
workers and initiated rural development activities in semi-nomadic and
cooperative farming areas. In retrospect, insufficient equipment has been
provided in two skilled worker centers and financing for additional equipment
has been arranged by the Government.
39.      The second credit (865-YDR) for US$ 4.0 million became effective in
June 1979. Following excessively high bids for two of the three vocational
training centers, it was agreed to convert two existing secondary schools into
training centers (one agricultural and one industrial). Re-designing delayed
the bids on these two conversions by 15 months; civil works bids are currently
being evaluated. Construction of the third center, a two-year commercial
training center, has proceeded satisfactorily although 10 months behind
appraisal estimates. Due to the early delays, disbursements only commenced in
May 1981 but are expected to increase substantially by mid-1982 with the award
of furniture and equipment contracts and the contracts for conversion of the
other two schools. Fellowship provisions under bilateral assistance have been
completed satisfactorily. The project is expected to be physically completed
by June 1983, about two years behind the original schedule.
40.      These two education projects are being implemented satisfactorily by
a small project implementation unit established within the MOE. No



- 12 -
expatriates are employed in the unit. The experience gained by the staff,
especially in international procurement and in effective working relations
with other ministries has been beneficial. The unit is capable of
implementing the proposed third project without any additional staff.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      The proposed project, the third education project to be assisted by
IDA, was prepared by the Government following an IDA identification mission in
April 1980 and a subsequent IDA preparation assistance mission in October
1980. The project was appraised in May 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington in February, 1982. The Yemeni delegation was beaded by Mr. Obaad,
Deputy Minister of Education. A report entitled "People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen, Third Education Project, Staff Appraisal Report" (No. 3709-YDR)
dated February 25, 1982 has been prepared. A map of PDRY showing project
locations is attached. Special conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement are summarized in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
42.      To date IDA lending has concentrated on supporting the development of
technician, and semi-skilled and skilled worker training programs. The
proposed project continues this emphasis, but also includes more emphasis on
the essential field of teacher training and upgrading. The proposed project,
would (i) help alleviate urgent manpower needs by (a) providing buildings and
equipment for the vocational training of skilled workers and technicians and
(b) improving the methods and data base available to manpower planners; (ii)
upgrade the skills and knowledge of existing poorly qualified teachers and
increase the output of new primary teachers; and (iii) improve the quality of
school buildings by establishing school building maintenance units in two
regional education directorates and by determining urgent school furniture and
equipment needs.
43.      The project would consist of construction, equipment and furniture
for (i) a commercial technical institute at Aden (750 places), (ii) an
agricultural technical institute at Saber (450 places), (iii) an in-service
teacher upgrading center at Aden (630 places), and (iv) a regional primary
teacher training institute at Seiyun (590 places). It would also include two
fully-equipped mobile building maintenance units together with technical
assistance for two studies. Technical assistance relating to the above
project items would be financed by the Government through bilateral sources
under ongoing programs. The Government would provide full-time teachers and
administrators of satisfactory quality and in satisfactory numbers for each of
the institutions to be established or expanded under the project (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.04).
Technical and Vocational Education
44.      Two training complexes, one for commercial and the other for
agricultural training, are proposed. In Aden a combined commercial technical



- 13 -
institute consisting of a two-year vocational school and a five year
technician institute would be constructed, furnished and equipped. Entrants
to both the two-year skilled training and the five-year technician level
program would be grade 8 graduates. The complex would be located in
Khormaksar, a suburb of Aden, near the main business and industrial districts
to facilitate practical on-the-job instructional experience and to assist the
placement of graduates. The two-year (grade 9-10) program, identical to that
financed in Credit 865-YDR, would prepare skilled clerical workers in
bookkeeping and secretarial skills. In the five-year (grade 9-13) program,
new curricula with accounting and secretarial practice specializations would
be prepared with bilateral assistance. The new curricula would contain
general studies for the first two years with increasing emphasis on technical
skills thereafter. During the final year and in the preceeding summer
vacation students would work in local businesses and industry as an internship
or practicum. At full capacity, 300 students (about 50 percent female) would
be enrolled in the skill training program (about 140 graduates annually) and
450 students (about 30 percent female) in the technician program (about 80
graduates annually). For the two programs no difficulty is anticipated in
obtaining the 50 instructors required. Part-time instructors experienced in
business practice would teach the more specialized subjects in the technician
program. Key teachers would be trained under an extension of the existing
bilateral program with the German Democratic Republic. The Government would
prepare and submit to IDA for its review, not later than 18 months prior to
opening a local instructor training program for the institute, which is
scheduled to open in October, 1985 (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.05).
45.      An agricultural technical institute would be constructed, furnished
and equipped on the campus of the training school at Saber financed under
Credit 865-YDR. The campus is located in an important agricultural area near
the IDA-financed Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (Credit 768-YDR),
the College of Agriculture of Aden University and a state farm. Arrangements
have already been made with the latter for students to use the land and
machinery for practical instruction.   The courses offered would provide
specializations in horticulture, agronomy, and animal production. Following a
sound two-year academic program, the final three years increasingly emphasize
technical specializations. Entrants would be grade 8 graduates; total
enrollment of 450 (about 15 percent female) would supplement the enrollment of
*          250 (about 20 percent female) in the existing two-year skill level program.
This would result in 80 agricultural technician graduates annually. Combining
both programs on the same campus would achieve economies in space, equipment
and services.  Approximately 29 additional teachers recruited from College of
Agriculture graduates would be required for the technician program;
experienced agriculturalists would be employed to teach specialized topics on
a part-time basis. The Government would prepare and submit to IDA for its
review not later than 18 months prior to opening a local instructor training
program for the institute, which is scheduled to open in October, 1985
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05). About 36 man-months of
fellowships and 12 man-months of consultant services would be financed by the
Government through bilateral sources under ongoing programs.



- 14 _
Teacher Preparation
46.      Two teacher preparation facilities, one in Aden and one in Seiyun,
would be financed by the Credit. In Aden a dilapidated primary teacher
training institute would be renovated and extended to become a national
in-service teacher upgrading center as well as to train a limited number of
teachers for the Aden Governorate. At full capacity, it would enroll up to
600 teachers and administrators annually in a variety of short courses, about
150 teachers in a one-year upgrading course and 480 pre-service trainees in a
four-year program; about 40 percent of these would be female. New curricula
have been prepared and were reviewed by IDA during negotiations.   The
upgrading programs would initially be designed for teachers with less than 12
years of general schooling but would also assist all teachers in practical
orientation to the new curricula in schools. Summer courses would be arranged
for the 38 new staff of the center and for staff of all primary teacher
training institutes. Together these programs would assist annually in
preparing 110 new teachers and in upgrading about 150 teachers in a one-year
program, and about 600 teachers and administrators in a variety of short
courses. The center would thus become an essential element in the continuing
improvement of quality education at all levels. Technical advice to the MOE's
directorate of teacher training to assist in the development of curricula, the
implementation of the courses and fellowship visits for senior staff would be
financed by the Government through bilateral sources under ongoing programs.
47.      The proposed primary teacher training institute (PTTI) would be
located at Seiyun, the largest city in the Wadi Hadramawt. It would replace
an existing institute at Al Mukalla on the coast. The institute would
graduate about 120 male teachers annually from a four-year course (equivalent
to grade 9-12) in which special attention would be given to teaching in small
schools in the remoter regions of three governorates. Because of the
unwillingness of females to teach in such remote areas, the most urgent need
is to prepare males to teach in remote co-educational village primary
schools. The institute would also provide 30 places for underqualified
teachers from the region who would receive a one-year upgrading program.
About 31 staff would be required to provide an acceptable student-teacher
ratio of 19:1. No difficulty is anticipated in ensuring that adequately
trained staff would be available.
Mobile Building Maintenance Units
48.      Small school building maintenance units have recently been
established in the directorates of education in each governorate (see para.
30). Two mobile building maintenance units would be financed under the
proposed project as a pilot program for a nationwide school building
maintenance system. They would be based in Aden (for the Aden directorate)
and in Al Mukalla (for the directorate in the Hadramawt Governorate). They
are designed to assist especially those schools which have no maintenance
staff of their own, and which cannot call upon local skilled craftsmen.



- 15 -
Studies
49.      Two studies are proposed for financing from the Credit.  A manpower
planning study would aim at improving the Government's capability to forecast
specific training requirements in the context of future manpower needs and at
providing an occupational classification on wbich a new wage scale would be
based. The Ministry of Labor would be responsible for the study which would
require about two man-years of consultant services and 4-1/2 man-years of
fellowships. A schools inventory survey would quantify the priority needs for
furniture and equipment in schools. The inventory design and training of
personnel would be pilot-tested in two regions in order to assess its
replicability and its use as a basis for a school location survey for
systematic placement of new schools likely to be included in the next
five-year plan (1986-90). The survey would be administered by the directorate
of planning and statistics in the MOE. About two man-years of consultants
services and one man-year of fellowships would be required.
50.      For both studies the Government has provided detailed terms of
reference and a plan for implementation. The Government would employ
consultants for both studies whose selection, qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA and are carried out
in accordance with Bank's Use of Consultant Guidelines (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02). The Government would appoint trained counterpart
staff to work with the consultants by October 31, 1982, that is three months
prior to the start of the studies, currently scheduled for January, 1983. Not
later than six months after their completion these studies would be forwarded
to IDA for its review and comment, and thereafter the measures whicb are
agreed to be appropriate would be implemented (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.07). The scbools inventory study could be considered as a basis for
possible future lending.
Technical Assistance
51.      Expert/consultant services (4 manyears) and fellowship training
abroad (11.5 manyears) as well as six one year fellowships in statistics would
be financed by the Government under an ongoing program of bilateral
assistance. Short-term visits on a fellowship basis to assist with the
carrying out of the studies referred to in paragrapb 49, project
implementation and technical assistance for the preparation of a fourth
Education project are included in the project and would be financed by the IDA
credit. Following approval of the proposed short-term visit program by IDA,
the Government would appoint suitably qualified people for the program using
criteria for selection and award that are acceptable to IDA (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.07(c)). The Government has completed preparation
of the terms of reference for the experts/consultants and of training
scbedules for the fellowships holders.
Evaluation
52.      In order to ensure the continuing relevance of vocational and
technical training programs, the Government would ensure that the MOE (i)



- 16 -
maintains adequate consultation with local and other bodies to ensure the
continued relevance of curricula; and (ii) uses the evaluation mechanisms,
including a tracer study for analysis of job placement, established under the
Second Education Project (Credit 865-YDR) to evaluate the relevance of the
curricula of the commercial and agricultural institutions to be established
under the project to the needs of the pertinent economic sectors and to
monitor employment opportunities, and to review the results of the evaluations
with IDA. This system would begin in the year that the first students
graduate and continue for five years (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.08).
53.      The Government would establish a small evaluation committee within
the MOE by March 31, 1984 to review the effectiveness and operation of the two
mobile building maintenance units during the first year of operations. Within
six months the report of the committee would be forwarded to IDA for its
review and comments, following which the Government would implement the agreed
recommendations according to a mutually acceptable timetable (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.06)). This report might form the basis for future
lending to extend the system.
Project Implementation
54.      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the MOE, which is
effectively implementing the first two IDA education projects, would be
responsible for the implementation of this project without any additional
staff. The PIU would be assisted by the General Directorates of Teacher
Training and of Technical and Vocational Education. The Director of External
Relations in the Ministry of Labor would be responsible for the manpower
planning study. Under agreements signed between the MOE and the Ministry of
Construction (MOC), preparation of designs and construction documents for all
project institutions, together with supervision of construction, would be
carried out by the Design Unit of the MOC. The Unit is adequately staffed
with qualified personnel. The Government's Central Board of Audit would
forward certified copies of the project accounts as well as an annual audit
report to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(b)). The overall status of
project preparation is good; detailed designs for the buildings to be
constructed under the project have been completed, initial furniture and
equipment lists prepared and outline curricula drawn up.
Project Cost and Financing
55.      The total cost of the project, exclusive of import duties and taxes
which are not applicable to development projects in PDRY but including
contingencies, is estimated at US$20.6 million, with a foreign exchange cost
of $10.8 million or 52 percent of total project cost. It is based on
estimated January 1982 prices. Physical contingencies of 10 percent on
furniture, equipment and all civil works are considered adequate due to the
simple nature of the civil works involved. Price contingencies on foreign and
local costs of civil works are compounded annually at rates respectively of 16
percent and 8.5 percent (1982), 15 percent and 7.5 percent (1983), 15 percent



- 17 -
and 7.5 percent (1984), 14 percent and 7.5 percent (1985), and 13 percent and
6 percent (1986).   Total contingencies of $6.4 million are about 45 percent
of the baseline cost. Civil works costs are based on unit prices derived from
current contracts for similar institutions, and furniture and equipment costs
are also based on current unit prices adjusted appropriately. The cost of
technical assistance is based on an average manmonth rate of about $9,000,
including direct costs, travel and perdiem costs. The average monthly cost of
fellowships is about $2,500 eacb, including all travel and subsistence costs.
These are appropriate costs for these items in this sector in PDRY.
56.      The proposed IDA credit of $6.0 million, representing about 29
percent of total project costs, would finance 55 percent of the estimated
foreign exchange cost. The balance, amounting to $14.6 million would be
financed by the Government including assistance under a bilateral technical
assistance program. When fully operational in 1990, the project institutions
are estimated to require $0.16 million annually in recurrent costs,
corresponding to about 0.5 percent of projected public recurrent expenditure
on education in that year. It is expected that the physical components of the
project would be completed by April 1986, and the technical assistance
components by December 31, 1986.
Procurement and Disbursements
57.      All civil works contracts, which range in size from about $7.5
million to $1.1 million and total about $15.6 million would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. It is anticipated that all civil works contracts
would be awarded to local firms given the relatively simple nature of the
works. Bid packages for procurement of furniture and equipment estimated to
cost in excess of $100,000 would also be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Small items or groups of items of furniture and equipment
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 or items of a specialized nature for
which international competitive bidding would not be practical, would be
procured under normal government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and
would include, to the extent possible, quotations from at least three
manufacturers or suppliers. The total value of furniture and equipment so
procured would not exceed US$0.3 million equivalent.
58.      In the evaluation of furniture and equipment bid under international
competitive bidding, local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference in comparison with foreign bids, equal to the existing rate of
customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of the c.i.f.
price, whichever is lower.
59.      The proposed credit would be disbursed on the basis of 17 percent of
total expenditures for civil works; for furniture and equipment, 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for directly imported items, 100 percent of local
expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured items and 85 percent of local
expenditures for items procured locally off-tbe-shelf; and for technical
assistance, 100 percent of total expenditures.



- 18 _
Benefits
60.      Continuing the work of previous education projects the proposed
project would reinforce the Government's efforts to expand and strengthen
coeducational vocational and technical education. Not only would regional
imbalances, especially in teacher training, be alleviated but a much-needed
impetus would be given to in-service teacher upgrading throughout the
country. All of the institutions in the project would benefit from the
development of new curricula. In pre-vocational training the incorporation of
an internsbip or practicum period of training on-tbe-job is seen as a major
innovation which is likely not only to increase practical competence but to
improve relations between the employers and the training entities.
Substantial benefits are also expected from the initiation of a school
building maintenance system which can be replicated and is likely to provide
an essential impetus to school maintenance operations. The studies would
provide the Government with more effective planning mechanisms and a detailed
assessment of school furniture and equipment needs.
Risks
61.      The proposed project does not face any special risks in its im-
plementation because the experienced staff of the PIU have demonstrated their
capability to implement similar project items successfully. Because delays
occurred under the first two education projects as a result of delays in
completing designs, the Government and IDA have paid close attention to the
timely completion of detailed designs and bid documents under the proposed
project. These documents are at an advanced stage of preparation, and this
risk is now minimized.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 12, 1982
Washington, D.C.






-20  -                                          ANNEX  I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN ?DR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAIA SHUT
YEMEN POR                           UFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA4S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SU. KM,T)                                                         - NDSI RECENT ESTIMAT
TOTAL            333.0                                                     MIDDLE INCOH
AGRICULTURAL      93.3                                MOST ECENT          NORTH AFRICA           K HDDLE INCOHE
196(  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST      LATIN AMERICA & CARlBBEAN
GNP PER CAPIIA (USU)                   ..          ..    420.0  /1              865.5                  1616.2
LNEhGY CNSUMPTI1N PER CAPITA
(KlLOCRAHS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    236.5       274.0     545.4                758.3                   1324.1
PUPULAIION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1251.0      1508.0   1855.0
URBAN POPULAIION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0       32.1       36.4                 45.2                   64.2
POPULAIlON PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      3.1
ol                            STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)                          8.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2110
POPULATIUN DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        3.8         4.5       5.6                 36.3                   34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     14.0        16.0      19.4                442.7                   94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YIS.                        44.8        45.5      46.6                 44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        51.9      50.8                 52.4                    55.3
65 YIS. ANO ABOVE                   2.9        2.6       2.6                  3.4                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         1.9/c     2.31c                2.7                    2.4
URAAN                             5.8          3.2      3.7                   4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.4        48.5      46.4                  41.5                   31.4
GRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.6         24.0     20.0                  12.8                     8.4
GYOSS RlPRoDUCTION RATE              3.7         3.8       3.3                  2.9                    2.3
FAMlLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT UF MaRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOUD AND NUTRITIUN
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0        92.0    103.0                  96.3                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALURIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                  84.0        91.0      81.0                110.4                   107.6
PROTEINS (GCRMS PER DAY)         51.0        53.0      55.0                 73.4                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       18.0        16.0      L8.0                 17.1                    34.0
CHILL  (AGES 1-4) HJRTALITY RATE    53.9       42.8      34.1                 14.9                     7.6
_EALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   36.2        40.6      44.9                 55.9                    64.1
INFANI MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..         ..        ..                   ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TOIAL                               ..         ..       24.0                59.4                    65.7
URBAN                              ..          ..      30.0                 83.9                    79.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0                 40.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TUTAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    59.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    30.4
PUPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        13758.2    34261.9   7759.7                 4174.5                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..          ..   1617.7                1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1154.0      978.0    647.8                 647.4                   471.2
URBAN                              ..          ..    321.8                 547.2                   558.0
rURAL                              ..          ..   4073.0                3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..      33.3                 25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SI2E OF HOUSEHULD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
WURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER RODH
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       22.Oj.
URBAN                               ..         ..       57.6/d
URAL                               ..          ..         .6d
4   1980



-21-                                            PANEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN PDR                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 13.0         57.0      72.0                  85.1                    101.7
MALE                  20.0        91.0       92.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                 5.0        23.0       51.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         10.0      28.0                  38.0                     35.3
MALE                   8.0        16.0       42.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                 2.0         4.0       15.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   5.0           3.0        2.0                  11.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0         31.0      34.0                  34. 9                    29.6
SECONDARY                          21.0         20.0      21.0                  23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        27.1/e       ..                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0          6.8       6.9                  18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         47.9         51.7      57.9                 121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.5         13.9      18.2                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         1.0        7.0                 35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           2.4        ..                   3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       342.2        395.1     452.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    4.0          4.9       5.6                  10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.0         65.0      47.1                  43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.0         17.0      15.3                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.3         26.2      24.4                  26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 52.0         49.9       46.5                  47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                2.2          2.5        2.7                   5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7         1.8        2.0                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                271.4
RURAL                                ..           ..     140.0                 144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      90.0                 400.8                    513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0                 290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      20.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Birth and death rates are crude estimates.  The natural rate of increase does not agree with observed
population growth rate; /d percent of population; /e age 10 years and over, for 1973.
May, 1981



ANN!DC I
-22 -                                                                             Tag  3o f 5
BKIPtITIWMS OP SOCIAL ISICSITOILS
sHotm    Although the doe.   dres  frau e ies getetIly Jodged the Net' eth-rtetive aedreiable,t.it shoul  ee  be rated  that they say lout be ioter-
_ntiewllyoospere ble becaus  of the knob of etnederdled defimitioa end  -ocPte reed by di feret trutrice  to rolte    he data.  The dat  ate,toe
thle...e. ucfi to deeorbe order  of  Weeri-ude               , dctre e.dar  ohe-.tier.t.e terit e-J.. diffe-eo-t  beteeaconrie
The reero       .-gtP. eo  (1) abe ees  ro..orry grou.P of the eubjet country eed (2) e c.outy group with eaehthigher-                  erg  irne  tu   he    er   ru
of  hb. ebjeot cotuaty (recep   fat "CePirel Borrios Oli Epooter   group ehar  'fiddie taoeerh  frc    atddl%ee"i  hes eoc  ofsaoee
e i-.oItrl o.Iffltottin).  I. the refererc  avrp dote the  vog    o  popelattee wighted eric-tio  eeu    foretbtdit--o eat  hbow   ely whoa
..jeetny of the coatrise to a Sloop bee den. f-o thee ioditrto.  Siec  the tovoreg  of tounorine emoo  the indicaosdepe4e or the eveilbiliny of dot
-d Ie no    efa                 - eto   .t he emerated I. reletieg avergee of on  itd.tce  tnon  eutber   Th..s evrge   aroly ..eefl cIi  c-eperig tho .a.Ie of
UAW ARMA  (thoocand eq.be.)                                                                         Ptrsiroa   telatBd-ttu    oe,ed crl-Prli                                    ttl
Tetel - Tota1loscfete e-ecogita   ed ure   ed ialer  wtee                                           ubur. end rual  divided by thier ont         oile eaoof hoepitte1 bed.
Aeiotrk- Mtietmat  of  ero    -orlae  uced ts-po-eily or petseeetly                          eraIleble In public aed privete grsrl   d epecteiteis  hospital andre
for  -ope, retre,eaht eat kitchen godons or to lie fellon; 1970 date.                            hbhiliati.on  c_tere.  Hoeyiteinretl          iifaoe bueeal  eefe
by et Ison ore phyeIician               h  . . Petbihe te roiding principally cot-
GP PuR CAPITA COiS) - GNP p-.. cpita.aiae  or -urret  erket price ...a.l-                            dill core ar  oat itolded.  Ou..el h.epitele, twer  include health
ouleted by aam  c-oerit  seabd es Wroid  er  hAtlts (1977-f9 bseie); 19y.A endfsta1e                               . cetre nor persaratly eroffad hy e physician  (hut by
1970, end 1979 dote.                                                                                 .dioalaes  t-ta, nurs, sidoife, ec.)Iohich offer ir-ptniatec-                  _
tattoo end prortde a limited r-ras of roeIcti fnclIt iss.  Par  -ani-
111!CleffmTPIi PU  CAlPITA-              --on  rcoptioc of c--oiL.  e..nogy I(oa                   ticel porpoere  -rbe  hoepitele  eld  dol   p..cpo)g             -1a hoepitle,l
oed ligir,   pMIrer, oteo 1a p.e erd hydo-,  -ooe-  end ...rtharua  tIc-                            ea  t rod    ospte   lca  or toe1 hospIt,l  art soddicel and eartrity
otofiny) to hilogres  of -oieqiele  Po r-pite; 1960, 1970. ond i979                                 -etero.  Sp-cielo-d  hoepitels e-  inoluda  .cI, under ota.W 
ol                                ~~~~~~~~data.                                                                                      udteei po oa  t....... end.  - local cuehe  or edwisi... to or diechargos
foot hpinel  divided bY cba rub-e cf beds.
POPMOATIOS AIID VITAL STATISTICS
Total Poeaetioa. Md4-lea   tho....ade) -h  of July 1; 1960, 1970, aid 1979                     HOUSINGA
dare.                                                                  A~~~~~~~~reror niee of Hocue.hold (..0   a  houehld  - oa.obee. ea  oo!
lebn Perlnin lorconof ttl  -             oui   f urhar to octa  populetiot;                  A ho.eodcriseo       ru ofP ldvdas  h   hr   ivio   qutr
diffaear  aftoiioroof urhen arassy affect coearbility of date                              ant thei  set teals.  A bosotdec orldge- euy orerrtheicg e   ir-'
ainngoouotiae;  960,1970,. ed 1979 data.                                                   the hb...nbotd for  raieic lpupoere.
Po.aratien P.riarior                                                                              cveuerhe  ofb       Ieer rr raetotal. oh                 n   ua       A--ttogSre
.P. utic  In yea  lilt - Correoc  poyletior ptoj-ciots or  bh...d on 1900heofprotarom  it all orbar. an-d rualocuie  crecico
noon1 ppoletioc by ago ead ear en  their  -atalicy cot fertility  -tnee.                       delltons. reepectioly.I      leeigeeotldr ro -prcuet                    I=rcoe  nod
Projectio   paaetr  for- -atality raiet        o is  of thre  loasas--1ocuis.es
coglif  apecatys  hot  cosc  rich   -tunnye per cact   roe                                     ces  ctacrct         tiac         of duelIIIe) - total. uban.. eat  -ore  -
levol  eat femal  life eapectan        tabilieiog at 77.5 yeur.  The  en                       Corvio...oa  doellcc,s rooth e1-oiOrytoIlovIg quarters.  .  ..tS
estnr  for fertility rtet also have three innsasein   decicc In                                of total, ocher, nod rura  dwellige repectively
fanilityet_ording  to Ioose lar-I ad Pea  feetly placiogprfrane
Mteh crootry Is that  esigoe  or. foosaceceiui ofofh ni.orality                            OIiICAIo
ndfa_niliry itret  for pro triro P_opae..jse   oolatPtc
rhobIr~th rate is oqu1 to 'the tdenhyrate, sot alec thwagsenrt-tae-erol                                        fal   as. at the pt=arylvo  te crceooge  rfrepctv
matte c oete.  This te  .chi-od cly after fertility rtes. decliorIt cc                          Isay ectoci-ege popolatiore.; cral   So'drchircagd0I
the .J: reieesc   Ilol ofuicrt - -pr-d-octo  -anu   hec eah anenioy to   hut adlue-d for tiffreto 1eogoha of crisay eductiro; tb
cfT oe  caple... itsclf aaettly.  Thcacaoiow-y populertotra  wee                                 co_ctill ricth  urrro    dc-tic.. ....Il-t  euyoat Pd lIt                ..cot
estimated o  the basis of the pooJcrtt  cbant-cIstica of tha ycpoleili-oc  scat Pupile er  helm  or  bh-c ate  fflit l ech-r  eno.
it. rho year 2000, ed the r-c  of d_olios of tertility rote cc relae-lacdecy schcl - corl, cab  rod deelo - Coepuotd us ohbore  arc                                          -ey
seat    - les.                                                                                     to-riooeqoi..eItclenIt fou  yer  of approved pri-uy toeoccc
lee stattory P,oulation t - ahet - To. Year otro  e-ti-toy popoletico                               pr-videe georc-    cctca .           toc-cher  -ririon  Iretrotcefo o
scrhebetrahad.                                                                          u-ully of 12 tc 17 Pore of  gae; c.o.r...urdtc-   ..u.e.e are geeol-ly
10 .k.- Cid--et p              .c..ic  e  ....c  Iilcat-r (Ill he--ao) of                  Voci...    eroieo  IereoVO ecndry                       . Votiotal instituti...asd
tota  ecec;. 1960, 1970 sod 1979 dera.                                                          icisrehoc l,id-strial, cI other Pccae   hbich opsotet irtped
Per s. ho..aciulurl ad - Computed at above for- fic                1url  ad                         ety       rdeaoete  fscony tsiu  c
orlY; 1961. 197D ead 197dan                                                                    Pucil-c,ah,rrc   -  oioo. n  eacotec   - cTal stdrots  -c I oled It
P-rultto   Ut Olt-utc  (re.oet  - Childle   (0-10 yers...           oir-e   (15-                     priar  urd eaoour  l-el  dtidr  by oo.her  of ceahec  i. the
hA yeare), and retired  765 year  aud            -r) .u pen-ogne of aid-yea  Popu-                 cce~dc   eae
latlob; 1960, 19071. ad 1979 deca.                                                               nd.lt lcoraoroe(ar-c    Li- l             c  adults  (cble to red artorc
Proolatton iGoh fete    ....c.t)total - aruel grathue u- f  .totl sit-                                eepr--tego  of tota  dtu1o  pupulutio- egd 05 y-o  a.doer
year P.pu,acic_ fcr l951-6I, I96G-71, ect 1970-79.
Puultto rook00r oenec  - other - A-oa  ar-th Ioas  ot u-her Pop-                        CcONSUMPTION
la  ...G"1tion. fcc 1950-60.  9190-70. erd 10 79.PeeraCaerntheadoolio   -ssaerceccpaserr
Crud Bithlos(e   h....nd)- --Ioa  Ilva hirche Per cho...ct cf sit-y-a                               creating lees chartih   peoce   r                     bue tleoc-., hearses art
Crude teeh Outs (or r hoed) - Artoa  toohs pa  icueteo   ctye                                    audi itertrar   Irrhocat-d olcor                  All typeeo  onlor f       ocen
populacior; 1901, 1970,. ac  1979 dare.                                                          braceetoerrlpb1ic ipec otoueecd.of lpltc;ecu                              r
Groes aspordoccioc  fc-coereg. rothe  of dauaht.treeoa ill hoa  iv                                    orc  rciest II          ucctee datit years lbsoraetaacof ratio
her racaloccuc1       v  pe Io if she  prpri -c. tocose-specific  fc_-                             ete see to effect;idata for t--t yPur  may oct.  -pcn -belosic-
tility  rtes.   eclyI   o-yea  averges audio5ig          90   90 c I19.                          cotco      Ica    aoihed lIce....og.
PetI Pleoto -       . Aoetor. coro    (thicu.ar) - Aerau1 orber of accptors                 .. ocivera 'ot coe t             oclotol     T  o-nicor  f-o brooodc  to.
ofN bioth-c -rrl ~dsrace  orderaupie  oteIc...l feed7y olarolg progran.                            -erra  pbllc p ter  hcotpOouic   olocolccat                            earr
Penil Plercog-ssos ocroon ofsurvad ortal    cartnoag  of trrie                   icconorisuod  o yera obydreiacrItocyf-TV   ntre_it rfect
Orson of oblld-heorict age (l-cI yneae) abe ose birfb-cotro  tovbc teN -cleep caCiol-atict (aer thoont..o...)d                             hosae  tcarcc
puli-ceolc  d__oca  Pr,aily to--acrttt   .oreu  cars   It Ia  reidro
POO dOl $UTHIITION                                                                                    to be "daily" if it e'ppe-  at-lattu  tmate.
Indar at Pod Prodootir car Cacie (10h9-71lli) - latr of per cpita acrual     late. toorC  Atteedeoe Ottt CecioP oar Yp oa   Meet-orhte  ..cbaroo
protuctio of al  fond cmodioce.  Produoira malottd sadatfen   r                     tiktha ia ari  font0  the  oe.-  i-cluditgdeee tc   c  drive-ic oci- e
Os or calender yanobeeie.  Crweotiniasoveo  poteary goode(e.g. e.g.oca.             re     bl  oite.
tea are  alodad).  Aggceaett. pr-d-ot. of each ...ooty Ia based 00                           LAitR FOLCE
uotiool averag  produce  price wights; 1961-65, 1970,. ad 1909 data.                           Tonal Labor Porne (ch .. artt  - Ec....  c-lly  -tci- Per..ore...ocltt1.dog
p-a day.  A-ailable eupylte  coapriec dusi  pc-d-ttior, imporsle                               tot.coaca-blo; altO, 1970 Act 1979 dece.
arPro       d atcharges it stock.  Net supple  elode animal fesd. scads,rae(erat    - y l  labor fo-ca      pec                                 org     f total labor force.
Vutt~itia  uesd to food prote...cog. and loea, O  dierihocico. M              qIo-           Atricolut  toarooc   - Loh-  fcrcr In fecmctg, fretr-y, huctog act
nees taeimctd by PAl hosed or physiaca-Ittods for   _a  erI-                            fih1og as t   tlna,na  of trial labor fIlle  1960, 1970 and.1979 Ito.
viota'  health cuoatttritg  -ciroaarnt-1            raoo,body ecighre. coItar  cret   laborfrrt  since, _ ocerotr   ao cr
and aerditecibuccoof-        polatto,artollmtd   ii parnco. fcre..sree                          ott  Iletrocity, otoai  ea  a  pccrcn  of t-ce  labor f-rc; 1960.
house hold leve; 1961-i5, 1970, art 1977 data.                                                 1971 tadi1979 data.
Per cnoce eoolv of coteto oroes cr dcv)- Proti  coro   f Peocopica                 P_ctcicaior rnet (ce-ec) - tria. -rI.. art fesala- P-rticip.ti.  or
ret euppl  of foot  er day.Nt sopply    f foo  is defor.deeao    R. i-             ecrOvity rtes  -0  -oeoct:%as totl, talc, ord frel  labor fco-eaa
Vuretafor all  --ooi-scecblished by USDA p-cida for niotmu                               p-oc-rone f -cct,  a                f bar  ...l poodco cIf all   use rasen ira!ly;
llrceof 60 gone of toad  yrcric P- day end20 grin  of ecle1 art                           1900, 1970, aod 1979 dtac.  Theeer   uedo=Il   petnoIo. rtes
polee p_orir, of ehit 1  gRass  hbould ha animal poteit.  Th.e. enact-                         cfanga-aoco coftepopu-oi-ai  I..g time t-cd.  A
_rts_rel...rt h..cthns   of75aHsmeofcrt-lrro-ria-dtlyara- f                                     tseteter    rooicoteorce.
actelpotioaaooea- for rh.a-ld,pro P.oeaby PAO iooh.Thmtdtior EclItooDeocyn ecc-fc-of ~p.pl-rtItvtd- aler -d 65 ..                                                           r
World Prod Survey; 1961-65, 1970 avd 1977 dut.-                                                toteou  labor forc.
rivt freatialsac  puee  iroraa  er  ey   1910. 1707  odf '1977 dtat.          INCOtf  DISTcIBL21tN
Chil fets 1-) Ootulac fte  rev  bocerd  A- -Ibu   teethe Par th.-oen   o           Preca   fPlavOce   bti   oln   ld i                          Oocclva  by nicheI
tries dat  dari-d fr-  lifa tuhios; 1960, 1970 rod 1979 dtat.                                    of thchrtlute
atIMt.ilMt    . brh 191191ath 1979         -A .     -h    fif.           .. tae.ac.totto-crp-rtd rt coo-tralcuttr
of ag  Psc toboused live' birhs                                                                 heOo-  porocy lon-m   lo-  to 01cr itoar  levl heb             oic      atea
Acest Poe ae   crar   frolt"ot - co.ohr1atrrl-1o-roiiclyrdaq-oc   diat plar                                                            .. a tooie1 no-o.. acrra       Ia 0cc
ete  supply  Itioute   fosatet1 aufconeao   rirtdbuIoroaioe                                        ff-rd.bl.
I-'f.                             .t ..-tloi..                 E.t~~~~~~~~oisatod lR.elr1vry  oonf       l(US$ 00c  rite) -oranro  octl1
.-ecsuh ae that fous prtecte-d b-rholca, spie.ad  acieracl    a                               aRaI reloriv   ponr i.  incos  lrei Ia .0-ntbird of aeaepaepc
yrargeof chtrinett'oonic -leubrrayhi                                                        acrl  oe   fi   coo.Cbrlao   adrotfo    c   ua
_easrobld  cesoodipyca  aehueao   rbr frft                        1  theI boPbl                    r   oe  -. Parier  ofJ populatIo    uru  atriL) oI  err  at)-cte
eusero-    pepl  (oos-         rb    aid coral)P- aaofehd by aIrec f-iaptoad-nl-efppe.l                                                     (b...      .)~h    .". It
tha coletotad diapr...l. oth cv oitoh-t tr--t, of h-soaot
an4i . Iac- -en   br ose-bor.-   Yate  -0 the u    of cit porous. act aiirf ....oi  ant S-nio1 cetc Dioioirt
P2aroatoccoPriio-PpuaiodIided by t-be- of c-actirg pbyti-M, 98
ci... qualified fro   e aedi-1 school 00 u-rrl-iy  Ileoti
PoclatraccvOuatr Prsc   -Potolatt    dilttd  bycota  of poan-iclog
sae  atmae   rduteous,Practica               by.e ndassac   oes



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page ~of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1980
US$ mln
GNP at market prices                              853         100
Gross Domestic Investment                         249          29
Gross National Savings                            -17          -2
Export of goods and NFS                            96          11       Annual Rate of Growth (Z)
Imports of goods and NFS                          696          81            (constant prices)
1974/79
GDP at factor cost                                570         100                    6
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries                         74          13                    0
Industry                                       81           14                   9
Construction                                    78          13                  23
Transport                                       87          15                   12
Government Services                            140          23                    7
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                           Budget
Estimates
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)                      1974/75      19751/        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980
Total receipts 2/                               23.6        16.9           32.1        43.4         56.0        68.0       107.2
Current expenditures                            27.6        25.6           39.2        47.4         61.4        76,2        96.0
Current deficit                                 -4.0        -8.7           -7.1        -4.0         -5.4        -8.2        11.2
Development expenditures                        19.6        18.9           39.2        57.3         59.7        52.0        74.2
Overall deficit                                -23.6       -27.6          -46.3       -61.3        -65.1       -60.2       -63.0
Borrowing from Banking System                   10.4        12.5           15.6        18.5         13.2        27.6        19.0
External Financing                              13.2        15.1           30.7        42.8         51.9        32.6        44.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1974        1975             1976       1977        1978        1979          1980
Y.D. million, end period
Money and quasi-money                           55          67             98         140          168         217         256
Bank credit to Government                       24          37             62          72           87         110         127
Bank credit to non-Government Sector3/          19          24             31          49           59          61          98
Increase in %
Consumer prices                                 24          12              4           5            6          10          11
1/    The fiscal year was April 1 - March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became
April 1 - December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
2/    Includes current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
3/    Mostly public sector agencies.



ANNEX I
- 24                                  Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)  1974         1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Exports II                               8         8      26       24       17      20       38
Imports 1/                            -190      -178   -268    -365    -386    -411    -650
Trade Deficit                         -182      -170   -242    -341    -369    -391    -612
Non-tactor Services, net                22        14      20       10       17      14       14
Factor bervices, net                    48        18      43       76     111      142      176
Labor Income                       (41)      (15)   (37)    (69)   (103)   (131)   (146)
Investment Income                   (7)       (3)    (6)      (7)      (8)    (11)    (30)
Current Account Deficit               -112      -138   -179    -255    -241    -235    -421
Transfers                                1        52    125       174     191      205      284
Official                               1        10      46      55       36       23       83
Private 2/                            --        42      79     119      155      182      201
official h and Lt Capital, net          65        31      73       70      94       59       76
Gross Disbursements                165)      (32)   (75)    (71)    (95)    (64)    (86)
Repayments                          (0)      (-1)   (-2)    (-1)    (-1)    (-5)   (-10)
Other Capital (mncl. E & 0)             38        42       4       29      45       -8       86
Changes in Ofticial Reserves
(- = increase)                       8        13    -27      -18      -89     -22      -24
Memo Item;
Gross Official Reserves (end year)   67           54      81       99     188      210      234
MERCHANDIbE EXPORTb                                        Average 1978-79
US$ Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                                   9          47
Agricultural Products                                    8          42
Other                                                    2          11
19        100
EXTEkNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1980)                            US$ Million
External Public Debt OutstandLng                           1,241
ot which;  Disbursed                                       499
Debt bervice Payments in 1980                                 15
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods
and bervices)                                                4.4 Percent
1/ Net of re-exports.
2/ Workers' remittances.
EM1DD
March 1, 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'b DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement ot IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1981)
$ Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                              (less cancellations)         q
No.          Year    Borrower        Purpose                      IDA       Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed                                        5.1
370-1 YDR       1973      PDRY       Fisheries                     1.6            0.02
494-  YDk       1975      PDRY       Education I                   5.4            0.6
560-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Highways II                  15.5            1.1
584-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Aden Port Rehabilitation    3.2              0.9
615-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0              1.1
768-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj        5.2            3.1
829-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Power                         5.0            1.6
865-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Education II                  4.0            3.6
932-  YDR       1979      PDRY       Fisheries II                 10.0            9.5
1038- YDk       1980      PDRY       Aden Water Supply            13.2           12.1
1050- YDR       1980      PDRY       Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0              8.9
1144- YDR       1981      PDRY       Highways III                 12.5           11.8
1145- YDR       1981      PDRY       Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.    8.01'            8.0
1159- YDR       1981      PDRY       Al Mukalla Water Supply       3.5            3.5
Total                                 108.2 2/        65.82
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                 108.2 3/
Total undisbursed                                     65.82
1/    Not yet effective.
2/    Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under
Credits 560 and 1038.
3/    Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C. Projects in Execution I/
CR. No. 370-YDR       Fisheries Project:  $3.5 million Credit of April 12,
1973; Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6
million Supplementary Credit of February 6, 1975;
Effectiveness Date:  February 14, 1974;  Closing Date:
beptember 30, 1981
The project has been completed and the credit is fully disbursed.
The major component, the fish cold store and freezing facility at Mukalla
became operational, after a two-year delay, in June 1978. The delay was
primarily aue to the difficulties encountered in finding a suitable project
manager and cost overruns requiring supplemental financing, which was approved
by the Association in January 1975. The smaller receiving station at Shihr is
now fully operational, and the 100 fishing vessels financed under the credit
have all been delivered.
Ch. No. 494-YDR       Education I Project:  $5.4 million Credit Approved July
12, 1974; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit is assisting the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and in meeting priority manpower
needs. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but is about two years
behind appraisal estimate aue to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit
etiective and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant
architects; (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting
design completion; and (iii) shortages of labor and materials which have
delayea construction. Five of the ten institutions, including two previously
completed extensions, were ready for the 1980-81 academic year. The remaining
institutions were completea in mid 1981. About 98 percent of the equipment
has been receivea, and together with furniture, is being delivered and
installed in project institutions as they are completed. Final withdrawal
applications are being processed.
Ch. No. 560-YDR       Second Highway Project:  $15.5 million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
This project is financea jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Econo-
Development. Since international competitive bidding for the construction
element of the project produced no responsible bids, arrangements were made
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
tor the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which is
assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the project
area ana the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of domestic
skillea manpower and the lower than expected output from construction
equipment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about three years behind appraisal estimates. However,
considering these  lifticulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
1h:arch 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 80 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 67
percent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of
rock that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works
needed because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction
equipment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have
been procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic
studies and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan roads. Consultants
(botechni-Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the
overseas training program has been completed with six Yemeni engineers having
completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany).
The project is expected to be completed by June, 1983.
Ch. No. 584-YDR       Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  $3.2 million Credit of
September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date; February 3,
1976; Closing Date; March 1, 1982
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is assisting the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-
handling, workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabili-
tation of the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical
assistance. All equipment except some navigational items have been received
and most are already in use, although there has been a substantial delay in
the rehabilitation of the slipway. A cost accountant and a marine engineer
have been appointed. There was a savings of $850,000 in the purchase of
tloating craft and IDA agreed that this can be used to purchase containers
handling equipment required for the port. This equipment has been delivered
ana final withdrawal applications are being processed.
Ck. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices ana the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of teeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
tor a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hyarogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
The date packing plant has been completed, the rural road component is
progressing satisfactorily, but the pace of village water supply works has
been slow. The hydrogeological survey and feasibility study have since been
completea and form the basis for a second phase project aiming at intensi-
fication ot irrigation on about 3,700 ha.
Initial problems, with staff recruitment and retention, delayed
execution of the project by about two years.  High cost of labor, inefficient
tractor services, marketing restrictions, and pricing policy of the agricul-
tural produce have been impediments to increased production. Government has
recently taken steps to improve its agricultural pricing and subsidy policy,
ana a consultant's study (financed under Credit No. 768- YDR/Wadi Tuban
Agricultural Project) on agricultural prices, taxation and subsidy has been
completed and is under discussion with a view to improving these policies.
The increased availability of the agricultural machinery purchased under the
project and improvement in pricing and marketing policy of the agricultural
proauce woula assist in achieving the project's objectives.
Ch. No. 768-YDR       Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:  US$5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on cooperatives
ana state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved practices and the
construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network. Inputs and farm
machinery are to be provided through credit. An expatriate project manager is
under recruitment but all other technical assistance staff is now on post. A
water management study and an agricultural prices, taxation and subsidy policy
study has been completed. Construction of a village water supply scheme is
well aavanced and survey work for feeder roads was started. The Arab Fund,
which cofinances this project, approved its loan of $6.1 million in February
1980. With a total area of 7,000 ha, the project has 36,000 principal
beneficlaries, while the water supply scheme would benefit about 6,000 persons.
Ck. No. 829-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Waai Hadramawt by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks.
Institution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants'
services for a tariff study, and a power development study. Soil testing of
the project site has been completed, the contract for equipment and materials
has been awardea and erection of the plant, although one year behind schedule
because of skilled manpower shortages, is underway. The tariff study is
completed and the Government increased tariffs by an average 27 percent
ettective beptember 1, 1981. Discussions with PCEP on its manpower
development program are at an advanced stage.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ck. No. 865-YDR       Education II Project;  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date;  December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in establishing three
vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Arrangements for fellowships to be financed from
bilateral funds have been completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in
Mukalla started in June 1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate
due to delays in designs and tender, and is now expected to be completed in
Summer 1982. With IDA's approval, two existing schools are being converted
into agricultural and industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs.
The redesign work caused a delay of approximately 15 months. These
conversions should be completed by mid-1983. Furniture and equipment are
under acquisition, but there has been a two year delay because of unresponsive
bids. Satisfactory curricula have been developed. Because of the delays to
this project, the Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1984.
Ck. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDkY, ana consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist the Ministry of Fish Wealth in fleet
management, cold store operations and export marketing; and a national study
to assess nutritional deficiencies for a possible future IDA-financed
project. The project was delayed two years because of the difficulty in
finding cotinanciers. This has resulted in a cost overrun of about $11.5
million. Negotiations with the Arab Fund to provide this supplemental
financing are at an advanced stage. The contract for the construction of the
port and related shore facilities has been awarded and construction has begun.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
CR. No. 1038-YDR      Aden Water Supply Project:  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
*       long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1050-YDR      Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date; November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning of
the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration
Department's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and
(b) technical assistance to PED for project management services, data
evaluation to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training
ot PED's staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently
attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. The seismic
survey is underway and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1144 YDR      Third Highways Project:  $12.5 million Credit of July 27,
1981; Effectiveness Date; December 23, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is financing the construction of a two-lane paved road
(92 km) from Naqabah to Nisab in the presently isolated Shabwah Governorate.
This road is expectea to stimulate agricultural production in the vicinity of
these towns. It would also strengthen PDRY's road construction capabilities
(i) through about 130 manmonths of consultants assistance to the Ministry of
Construction (0OC) for improvement of project preparation capabilities,
management, ana operations of the MOC's construction units, including the
inaependent construction unit (ICU) established under the project and (ii)
through training of MOC and ICU staff including about 90 manmonths of long



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
and short-term overseas fellowships. The IDA credit became effective
concurrently with the loans from the two cofinanciers, the Kuwait Fund and the
OPEC Fund. The management team of consultants have mobilized, consultants
have been appointed to provide technical and construction supervision
assistance to the Ministry of Construction, and bid evaluations for equipment
for the project unit are complete and contracts with suppliers have been
signea. Construction is expected to begin in May, 1982 as scheduled.
CR. No. 1145-YDR      Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project; $8 million
Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date; Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha. of mixed spate (flood) and well irrigated lands in
the beihan subgovernorate by rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and
improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by providing
technical assistance, farm inputs and agricultural equipment for Wadi Beihan
ana Wali Ain. It would establish a program of hydrometeorological
observations in Wadi Beihan for improving knowledge of its water resources and
ensuring their optimal utilization. In addition, it would improve access
between agricultural and population centers in Wadi Beihan by constructing
feeder roads, and improve the nutrition of the local population by increasing
production of fruits, vegetables and meat. Initial implementation is
proceeaing satisfactorily, a project manager has been appointed and
recruitment of other key staff is under way, and bid documents for staff
housing are under preparation. A cofinancing loan agreement for $6 million
equivalent has been signed with the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD).
CR. No. 1159-YDR      Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project:  $3.5
million Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will rehabilitate the existing water supply system of Al
Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and prepare detailed plans of new
water proauction facilities for this city. It provides for an immediate
increase in water production to meet water demands up to 1985 and for the
expansion of the water distribution network into the poorer sections of Al
Mukalla. The project also provides for the formulation and implementation of
a health education program designed to encourage the population in Al Mukalla
to improve health practices and sanitary conditions. It further includes:
hydrogeological studies needed for the design of the water production
facilities; an urban growth study to forecast the pace of urbanization in the
Al Mukalla area and to plan for the expansion of basic urban services in this
area. A total of 122 manmonths of consulting services is provided. The
project would provide substantial health and environmental benefits to the
population of Al Mukalla. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
bection I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first presented to IDA               April 1980
(b)  Time taken by PDRY to prepare
the project                                  One year (May 1980 - May 1981)
(c)  Agency which prepared the project            Ministry of Education
(a)  Departure of Appraisal Mission               May 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations                   February 1982
(f)  Plannea Date of Effectiveness                July, 1982
bection II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
bection III; bpecial Conditions
The Borrower would;
(I)   prepare and submit for IDA review local instructor training
programs for the combined commercial technical institute and for
the agricultural technical institute, which are scheduled to open
in October, 1985, not later than 18 months prior to the scheduled
opening date (paras. 44 and 45);
(ii) appoint sufficient counterpart staff by October 31, 1982, that is
three months prior to the start of the studies included in the
project, currently scheduled for January, 1983. Not later than six
months after their completion to forward the studies to IDA for its
review and comment and thereafter implement the measures which are
agreed to be appropriate (para. 50);
(iii) ensure that the Ministry of Education a) maintain adequate
consultation with local and other bodies responsible for education
to ensure the continued relevance of curricula; and b) use the
evaluation mechanisms, including a tracer study for analysis of job
placement, established under the Second Education Project (Credit
865-YDR), to evaluate the relevance of the curricula of the
commercial and agricultural institutes to the needs of the
pertinent economic sectors and to monitor employment opportunities;



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
and to review the results of the evaluations with IDA. This system
would begin in the year that the first students graduate and
continue for five years (para. 52);
(iv)  establish an evaluation committee within the Ministry of Education
by March 31, 1984 to review the effectiveness and operations of the
two mobile building maintenance units during the first year of
operations, and within six months to forward the report of the
committee to IDA for its review and comments, following which the
Government would implement the agreed recommendations according to
a mutually acceptable timetable (para. 53); and
(v)   submit the audited accounts and the annual audit report to IDA not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 54).



TUIJH                                                              46S E Y S 9 d , j,> \ >   ' 40    468                              So0                                5 2
5I I8 AHEce1(  
IHA(    IHAN                                         PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  Yf YEMEN                                                                                                           20
a?
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
n             80101*  (T7/'
5d C                    T SAUDI ARABIA
SUIDAN X. J_       ,O                                                                                                                          3 
/~~~~~~/ ;tiNJ7>  5jg  tt  SEA 
)   p45ti8 <            0 I50                                             100            I
''                LX                                              ILOMETERS
SUIIAN  - 7~~~~~~~~~MA
> / -- -- fk ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sh,han 
Ch                                                                                          /     E  /                                                                     HabItitO 
\   r}   Sru  drJh ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t / T~~~~;3hamud   \,_
.9.919     Soda
--  )                                      I A  \                    /       ,/      '     oBIr Tamls      /              *                                 /        \         _Brm
A~B1S'S        AR   0AB0015
'  4't   \ J   l            Y~~~~~~~~~~Ol1X1~ E' M1ap1t E10f Ns 8a1d,/ d8         Zruma5X      :IS  /
~~~Thomud ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    Goya
so   %   |       R E P U B L I C                  \         /     O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C Al-Abr    ,     raav.,p                                                    d6-
.                                           !                         *     *h                          5         '                            /   0             -  J ,~~~~~~  / 
> \ \\ -\|__-/ -tMarib  // / . Houra]                      o*                               -         Oishn r/
X   CtX  )   />J3 ANA'A  tl    .           /OShobwah                                                                    Lth S  ,
I                                      >~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hj ~ Al Hibs y~
- AlAyn-  i*t  (, N   '\   A   COMMERCIAL SCHOOL AND TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
\p l Ihf    Nlsrnb  O oAIaq i           -                >       5     n   Shlhr                    +      PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTE
.)1)         As SoIdo} r1lo - - 'Ar uiyOllan                                             *                  AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
Al Mohfldb .     ,-Wayfazz hn                                                                 I h  iNSERVICE TEACHER UPGRADING CENTER
W4             I                                                ukyrcsAib-   yyf  h                            .v-/
Muhaydo  o' YLGwda                                Bir  l                                                 a    NATIONAL CAPITALS AND OTHER CITIES
0 h                      /                                                                                       PRIMARY ROADS
1sk0jair~~~  Al Qrh       '          ha
A  \    /   t  O  Naqe-el-Alalla    -. --  
~MuSI j } Taiz     v rMym,r -0  0r --~11  eo5  _-                                                                              -~ ~~~- AGRICULTUR AL AREAS
>                               Ke......... GTuqrah 5-OVERNORATE BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
>                                                                                     U  Z .   ,,, AmFarsI  Lahel ' ,  b  l f   Of   A Z) F/V                 -    .    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
iO   X    '---~  44  Ffwlto ADEN  46'                                48.                                  50'                                  52'
-I






IBRD 15175R
TURKEY                 , 4,     s       S  R                                                                                                                    5U0                                                                            AUGUST  1981
ESZRaP)                     r             2                         PEOPlE'S   DEMOCRATIC    REPUBLIC   OF   YEMEN
AN    -20 IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY SECTOR                                                                                                                                                                                    20'
~~ff   NEUTR]~~~~~E'~~   ~ ~                                PROJECTS
C                                                                           Ag,, p  I aTS.
ARE B     S SAUDI           4E                                                      sher,es
ARABIA f                                                            Petroleum  Expl.rIto-  Ass-sto-ce
SUDAN                                                                     A A   0  *  Edcatl,o- n
YUg5/         E'IANA  .5EA                                        H,gh.ws                                                                                     \t *y
JET,,,OPA> , , r                                                    *       Power Stotions                                     9                                                      ;Vs -~ P   St/t,  s
_31003T     -                      T r onsm ,ssio n   L -nes
*       Woter Supply                                              _/
       Por r  Developme-t                                  /                                                r
-R                                                                                                                                                         / t SPC/D .-   0 f
i                    4 ~~~~~~HGHWfAYS 1                1971                                                  4                                                                                                  L-HAYA
+    t         yU ~~VVDI HADRAMOUT AGHI ULTURE   1975                             /E/                                      gE                                                     :        ,E   A
j            WVAOI HAORAM2OUTPOWtER            197E8                         ; :          /        w           H    s 
ADN  YAER SPPL                      190                                                                                           V
HIGHWAYS 1                        1981                                                                                           ALLA          ELEVATIOAL GHAYDAHPoo$
WAISBERIHAN AGIUTR                1973                                                                             R-'                                                                         od        oc
lU~~~~             ED~~UKALCATION  SPPLY1981                                                                                                                                200P,.,                                      od
_ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~HGWY  0                                   107                                                                                                         0              -     _Nafstsa  ugeflotPIqn tmP     a @to h  add-Sn  t
UENGPORTEERAI LIAIOG17                                        1/
-------                                   'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----                -tlt-0             0~dle
N'~ ~ ~ ~~~~E
CcUr H                       R ADRA*OUT.OWR              417                                                                     5--                                                   ,
9                       AESPLEDNRIO                      00'.                                                                                              ~ s-R4             '



