Document of .                           irI)  f
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3709-YDR
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 25, 1982
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(since February 1973)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Dinars (YD)
US$1.00 = YD 0.345
YD1.000 = US$2.90
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (from 1976)
SCHOOL YEAR
September - June
GLOSSARY
CSO - Central Statistics Office
GDR - German Democratic Republic
ICB - International competitive bidding
ITUC - Inservice teacher upgrading center
MOC - Ministry of Construction
MOE - Ministry of Education
MOL - Ministry of Labor
MOP - Ministry of Planning
MSC - Management Services Center
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PTTI - Primary teacher training institute
SFYP - Second Five Year Plan, 1981-85
4A



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPU3LIC OF YEMEN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Conteats
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ......................................1..... 
Socio-Economic Background and Development .1
Educational Development . ...........4 . ........................         2
Education and Manpower Issues ....... ...................... . .          3
Manpower Development ... . .                  . .....    3
Quality of Schooling and Teachers....                                 4
Managerial and Administrative Capability..                            6
Educational Finance. ........................                             6
Government Educational Objectives....                                     7
IDA Strategy and Lending for Education               ..    ...            8
II. THE PROJECT....                                                                9
Introduction...                                                           9
Objectives and Scope..                                                    9
Technical and Vocational Education    .                .10
Commercial Vocational School and 'rechnical Institute .10
Agricultural Technical Institute    .                .11
Upgrading and Training of Teahers ..13
Inservice Teacher Upgrading Center   .               .13
Primary Teacher Training Institute   . .13
Mobile Building Maintenance Units    .                .14
Technical Assistance .....................--.--...    15
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS ......    17
Cost of the Project   .        ...........      ...............     17
Project Financing                        .....   19
Recurrent Expenditure  ........ ..  20
Implementation .........   20
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates    ....    21
Accounts and Audits ......               .     .........    22
Disbursements                          .....  23
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....... .......                                        .  23
Benefits ....................................................    23
Risks .......................................................    24
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION             ........       .......   24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1 - CHARTS, TABLES AND SCHEDULES
Charts 1; New Education Structure, 1980
2: Education Pyramid, 1979/80
Tables 1; Comparative Education Indicators
2: Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student
3; Contingency Allowances
Schedules 1: Implementation Schedule
2;  Technical Assistance
3; Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2 - RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Education
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C. Selected Working Papers of the Project
MAP: Location of Project Institutions



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Basic Data
Population (Estimated 1980)
Total population                          1.9 million
Rate of growth (1976-80)                  2.3%
Urban population as % of total             35%
Per capita GNP                            $424
Literacy rate (15 - 59 years of age)       40%
Enrollments (1979/80)
Level               Grades       Enrollments       % Female    As % of Age Group
Primary("Unity")    1-8            273,700            30               65
Secondary            9-12           38,120            28               22
Higher              13-16+            3,370           42                2
Education Expenditure (1980 Budgetted)
YD Million
Ministry of Education:
Recurrent expenditure                     17.5
Capital expenditure                        3.0
Total Education Expenditure;
as %,of government expenditure            10.5%
as % of GNP                                6.0%






I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background and Development
1.01     PDRY, with a per capita income of UI$424 in 1980, is still one of the
least developed among the developing countries. Limited natural resources
combined with rugged topography and difficult: climatic conditions severely
constrain development.  The population (1.9 miillion in 1980) is growing fast
at about 2.3% per annum and is still largely rural (65%). Prior to indepen-
dence in 1967, the economy had been dominated by port services and the Aden
refinery, both largely controlled by expatriate managers and technicians.
Agriculture and fisheries production was low and undeveloped. The closure of
the Suez Canal, coinciding with independence led to the collapse of port
activities, the emergence of serious unemployment and large scale emigration
to neighboring Arab states.
1.02      The new Government faced severe deficiencies, including the avail-
ability of skilled manpower. However, the Government has pursued a consistent
development policy over the past decade. This has emphasized: (a) developing
productive capacity, especially in agriculture, construction and manufactur-
ing, and increasing exports; (b) improving aad expanding the education and
training system to meet basic needs and to iacrease worker productivity; (c)
satisfying basic social and health needs; and (d) strengthening public admin-
istration and planning at national and regional levels.
1.03      Since the early 1970's, significant progress has been made.  Average
annual GDP growth rates have increased in real terms from about 2% (1970-73)
to 9% (1974-79) annually. Imported foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods have increased, but local production of agricultural produce has
stagnated in spite of substantial investments and the introduction of coopera-
tives and modern techniques. Substantial investments have been made in trans-
portation, power and mineral exploration. Rapid expansion in the local
construction industry since 1975, following large increases in remittances
sent by Yemenis working abroad, has produced an upsurge in private housing
construction and an increase in public sector investment.
1.04      However, government development programs continue to be constrained
by critical shortages of skilled personnel in all sectors and by emigration to
neighboring countries.  A well-trained labor force remains one of the
country's most important needs. Bank estimates 1/ suggest that by 1975 more
than 40,000 workers had left PDRY.2/   Not only do these Yemeni workers abroad
constitute a significant proportion (12%) of' the total resident Yemeni labor
force, but, more importantly, they include most of the skilled Yemeni labor
force; four out of five skilled Yemeni workers in 1975 worked outside the
1/ The World Bank, EMENA Region, Technical Assistance and Special Studies
Division: International Labor Migration in the Middle East and North
Africa. Final Report of Research Project, January 1981, Volume II,
Appendix D, Annex 3.
2/ The Government estimates that 85,000 workers were outside the country in
1980.



-2-
country. To counteract this manpower drain, the Government re-imposed strict
quotas on emigration in 1979 and has adopted policies to encourage migrants to
return. In addition, the Government has strengthened incentives for invest-
ment by Yemenis returning from abroad and by those remaining outside the
country. Although private housing construction has increased, little other
investment has taken place, and about 85% of remittance funds in 1980 were
used for imported consumption items.
1.05     The second Five Year Plan (SFYP), 1981-85, aims at satisfying basic
social and health needs, improving productive capacity, strengthening support
sectors, increasing exports of domestic products and improving public admini-
stration. The labor force requires a strong basic education system as a
foundation for sound vocational training. In support of this, a high 38% of
the total capital investment on education (YD22.6 million) in the SFYP will be
spent on basic schooling (grades 1-8) and 24% on vocational and technical
preparation in the formal school system. This emphasis in government educa-
tional priorities, with IDA support, remains crucial to maximizing returns to
the high level of proposed investment in the industrial, transportation,
public works and housing sectors and to alleviating the current shortages of
skilled and technical manpower.
Educational Development
1.06     The Ministry of Education (MOE) has achieved considerable success in
improving access to schooling, decreasing illiteracy and initiating needed
manpower training. Since independence in 1967, when an MOE was established,
schooling at all levels has become free and public. The rapid growth of the
school system was fundamental to the development of the country. Total
enrollments in the school system rose from 94,000 in 1967/68 to more than
312,000 in 1979/80, representing an average annual increase of about 17%. By
1980, about 65% of 7-14 year olds and 22% of 15-18 year olds were attending
schools in comparison to about 33% and 3%, respectively in neighboring Yemen
Arab Republic. The participation rates for girls in basic cycle and secondary
schools  were 30% and 28%, respectively, which is higher than most other
countries in the region. Of the 10,700 teachers in basic and secondary cycle
schools, about 35% and 23%, respectively, are female. Nevertheless, social
acceptance of girls' schooling, while growing, remains constrained by socio-
cultural factors and by the dispersed population which makes access to
education difficult in rural areas. Consequently, it is likely that full
enrollment of the 7-14 age group will be reached only during the 1990s. The
illiteracy rate of the 15-59 year olds has been reduced from about 90% in 1970
to an estimated 60% in 1980, a major accomplishment. All these measures
demonstrate the achievement of the system in spreading basic education.
1.07     As in many other countries, efforts at quantitative growth left
qualitative weaknesses in the school system. These have been recognized by
the Government. In the mid 1970's, the MOE reviewed its educational policies
and instituted sensible and serious major reforms beginning in 1977. These
reforms included initiating more systematic pre-vocational training, develop-
ing new curricula for all grades and phasing in a new educational structure.
In line with trends throughout the Middle East, the MOE has now established a
reformed education system in which; kindergartens were introduced; the
six-year primary and three-year lower secondary schools were replaced by eight
years of basic schooling in "unity" schools; academic secondary schooling was
extended from three to four years (grades 9-12); two-year (grades 9-10) skill
training schools and five-year (grades 9-13) technician training institutes



- 3 -
were introduced; and university programs were expanded and strengthened
(Annex 1, Chart 1). Teachers of primary gracles 1-4 now receive specialized
preservice training (equivalent to grades 9-1.2) while other teachers receive
two or four years of university education; such training is an interim measure
and is part of a reasoned philosophy supported by IDA, for eventual post-
secondary teacher preparation for all teachers aimed at upgrading the quality
of teaching in the schools.
Education and Manpower Issues
1.08     In spite of the Government's efforts, major issues still remain.
'hese relate to; (a) manpower development; (1)) teacher preparation and
upgrading and the quality of schooling; and Kc) managerial and administrative
capabilities.
(a) Manpower development
1.09     The Government's plans for continued growth in the economy are likely
to increase the already severe manpower problems. As a result of emigration
to neighboring oil-producing countries, the shortage of labor is evident at
all levels and affects all sectors of the economy but is especially acute in
the skilled worker and technician categories. Three key sectors are affected
by the Government's planned development.  IDA estimates of manpower needs
provide rough orders of magnitude for these three key sectors which are
directly related to this proposed project.
Table 1: IDA ESTIMATES OF MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY
1981-85                1986-90              1990
Requirements   Supply  Requirements   Supply    Shortfall
Agriculture/fisheries:
Skilled workers          900       300        1,200        800         1,000
Technicians              310        190         390        170           340
Professionals            400       200          600        200           600
Industrial:
Skilled workers        8,000     4,800       11,200      7,900         6,500
Technicians            1,500     1,100        2,000      1,000         1,400
Professionals          1,300       300        1,800        400         2,400
Commercial;
Skilled workers        6,000       200        7,500      1,100        12,200
Technicians            2,800       500        3,100        500         4,900
Professionals          1,400        800       1,500        800         1,300



-4-
1.10     In addition, technical/vocational preparation is one of the less
developed segments of the education system. For example, in 1980 only 7% of
secondary students were enrolled in vocational courses due largely to the lack
of aplpropriate facilities. The Government is acutely aware of this shortage.
With the reforms initiated in 1977, priority was given to the introduction of
two-year vocational (grades 9-10) and five-year (grades 9-13) technician
preparation but no schools have yet become operational. IDA has recognized
the urgent need to remedy this situation. The second IDA education credit in
1979 ifinanced three such skill-level training centers. This proposed project
replicates and expands this type of preparation in the formal education system.
1.11     The introduction of pre-vocational preparation in the formal school
system is recent and the majority of workers currently in the labor force lack
elementary schooling or skill training. Insufficient attention has been given
to the systematic provision of more adequate on-the-job training programs to
alleviate the continuing shortfall of trained manpower. The Government is
conscious of this problem; the National Technical and Vocational Council has
been established to formulate comprehensive training plans and programs and to
coordinate training activities. The Ministries of Labor (MOL), Construction
(MOC), Agriculture, Fish Wealth, Health, Industry and some public corporations
offer skill upgrading programs. Labor productivity remains low because the
amount and level of training has not developed skills adequate to support a
more dLiversified industrial base. The Government now requires a minimum
literacy level for newly-hired workers which has greatly spurred literacy
training in public sector enterprises. The results of the manpower planning
study proposed in this project (para. 2.21 below), should provide a more
accurate assessment of needs and form the basis for on-the-job training
proposals as part of a possible follow-up project.
(b) Quality of schooling and teachers
1.12     The quality of schooling and the preparation of teachers are closely
interrelated. With rapid enrollment growth, the need to obtain teachers of
lower grades from secondary school leavers and graduates has produced a poorly
prepared teaching force. Enrollment growth has also emphasized the provision
of additional buildings to the detriment of maintaining adequate instructional
materials, furniture and equipment.
1,13     The quality of schooling is low and is inhibited by the number of
inadequately trained teachers (para. 1.15 below), by meager instructional aids
other than textbooks which are in reasonable supply, by an estimated 70% of
basic cycle schools which lack rudimentary furniture and equipment and by poor
and ineffective maintenance of buildings. Furthermore, more than 50% of
schools occupy non-purpose-built rented facilities. These difficulties
receive little attention because of the regional administrative structure and
lack of reliable data. A study is therefore proposed in this project to carry
out an inventory of school needs in selected regions (para. 2.21 below). Such
an inv,entory would lay the basis for a more comprehensive school mapping
survey and the financing of furniture and equipment possibly in a future IDA
education project.



- 5 -
1.14     The six regional directorates of education have assumed increasing
autonomy and responsibility for all schooling in their governorates. While
the Government has tried to extend educational opportunities equally through-
out the country, inequalities have remained. The effectiveness of each
directorate varies in seeking to extend schooling to females and to remoter
regions as well as to improve its quality. Lack of administrative and super-
visory personnel is a major drawback. Furthermore, with limited budgets and
rapidly expanding enrollments during the last: decade, the directorates have
concentrated on constructing new schools to the detriment of essential upkeep
and general maintenance. Recently, the regional directorates have been
assigned direct responsibility for such maintenance but lack of skilled
workers, materials and funds to implement the new emphasis on maintenance and
repair has meant that little has been done. The Association proposes support-
ing, on a pilot basis, school maintenance in two key directorates to try to
improve school buildings and to provide an incentive for establishing a
regular maintenance program (para. 2.19 below).
1.15     The key issue in teacher preparation, both preservice and inservice,
is how to upgrade the quality of preparation quickly in order to underpin the
curricular changes being introduced in the schools. The Association supports
the long-range goals for teacher preparation (para. 1.07) but change in educa-
tion is necessarily a slow process. The MOE is constrained by insufficient
administrators, planners and curriculum developers. In common with other
ministries, technical assistance is being utilized increasingly to alleviate
such bottlenecks. In teacher preparation ani upgrading only modest assistance
has been provided to a directorate lacking inaginative and well-qualified
teacher educators. Although the MOE is conscious of this problem a major
shift in emphasis is necessary for teacher preparation to assume its essential
role in educational development.
[.16     As a first step towards upgrading all preservice teacher training to
post-secondary level by 1990, the Government has recently introduced two-year
post-secondary training for teachers of grades 5-8 in two regional institutes
constructed under the first IDA education project (Credit 494-YDR).  For
teachers of grades 1-4, a new four-year post-unity curriculum requiring
specialization in one of three fields 1/ was initiated in 1981 to increase the
teachers' knowledge of subject content and to improve the quality of teach-
ing. Secondary teachers continue to be trained in a four-year degree program
at the University of Aden; a special one-year post-graduate diploma in teach-
ing is proposed for graduates from other disciplines who wish to become
teachers. Each of these programs is likely to improve the quality of
pre-service teacher training. This proposed project continues assistance
initiated under the first education project by establishing another regional
teacher training institute.
1.17     At the same time, there is a need to upgrade the 70% of basic cycle
and 30% of secondary cycle teachers who are untrained or under-qualified. The
present in-service programs have been develcped with bilateral assistance.
1/ - Arabic, mathematics, natural science and social science
- Arabic, polytechnic crafts and drawing
- Arabic, physical education and music



- 6 -
However, they are inadequate to meet the needs largely because the MOE's
teachLer training directorate lacks sufficient trained staff to develop a
comprehensive range of courses. The MOE has recently appointed a director of
inservice upgrading who will be responsible for implementing a new upgrading
program in the institute proposed for inclusion in this project.
1.18     The national annual demands for teachers over the next 10 years are
expected to be 360, 480 and 100 for grades 1-4, 5-8 and 9-12 respectively.
Except for primary teachers, these needs will largely be met by the capacity
of the existing facilities. In the hinterland, however, no primary teacher
training exists; the more remote regions of three governorates are estimated
to require about 120 teachers of grades 1-4 annually and this proposed project
is expected to meet this need.
(c)  Managerial and administrative capability
1.19     Training at all levels of planning,  management and administration,
is urgently needed to prepare new leaders and to upgrade existing managerial
skills. The Government of Kuwait has recently financed construction of a
Management Services Center (MSC) to initiate both preservice and upgrading
programs; however, the MSC is handicapped by a lack of staff, programs and
equipment and by imprecise assessments of the numbers of personnel needing to
be trained. The Ministry of Planning (MOP) has indicated that bilateral
financing from Kuwait will be available to study managerial and administrative
training needs and to allow the MSC to begin its programs.
1.20     Within the MOE, no training is available in management or administra-
tion. Statistical data are manually tabulated; no analysis or planning is
attempted using these data and any transcription is laborious. Similarly, the
financial data collected at the regional level, which should assist account-
ability, do not permit analysis of expenditures by level of schooling nor by
type of expenditure in order to obtain per pupil costs or costs for particular
services or programs. The MOE's inservice teacher upgrading center proposed
in this project, together with the MSC, would establish courses to help meet
these needs. At the same time, the training of key people abroad should
continue. Possible fields of study include statistical methods and analysis,
education planning, and education administration and finance. Under ongoing
bilateral agreement it is likely that fellowships in these fields will be
provided (Annex 1, Schedule 2).
Educational Finance
1.21     Education expenditures, as a percentage of GNP have remained rela-
tively stable over the last five years. The 6.0% of GNP devoted to education
in 1980 is higher than most other countries in the region. Actual amounts of
both recurrent and capital expenditures have continued to increase annually.
However, as a percentage of total government expenditure, spending on educa-
tion has declined. In 1980, a somewhat low 10.5% of total government expendi-
tures was devoted to education. The average annual per pupil cost of educa-
tion in 1980 was only about US$200 in comparison to about US$500 in the
neighboring Yemen Arab Republic.
1.22     Annual recurrent costs for formal education are expected to reach
YD22.8 million or 20% of total government recurrent expenditure by 1985. This
is based on the projected 10% and 5% annual enrollment increases for the basic



-7 -
and secondary levels respectively and a modest 1.5% annual increase in
salaries and benefits. During the SFYP period, total capital expenditure for
education is projected as YD22.6 million or 4.5% of total capital expendi-
tures, most of which is likely to be financec. from external sources. Both
types of expenditure represent a realistic and achievable increase over cur-
rent spending. Thus, by 1985, spending on ecucation is expected to correspond
to about 14% of total projected public expenciture. This represents a sub-
stantial growth from the current 6.0% to 6.92 of GNP spent on education by
1985. While this would be approaching the upper limit desirable for education
financing, it is still feasible. The Governnment is expected to sustain this
level of expenditure in view of the high national priority attached to educa-
tion and training.
Government Educational Objectives
1.23     The Government's educational development strategy is directed real-
istically towards achieving a better adaptation of the education system to
meet manpower and basic needs and to improve the quality of schooling and
training. The objectives and projects proposed in the SFYP give priority to;
(a)  expanding opportunities for vocational and technical training in the
formal school system by establishing nine two-year skilled worker
training schools and three five-year technician institutes in order
to treble the number of graduates from the 1,600 trained in three-
year semi-skilled and skilled programs in 1978. This involves a
complementary reduction in the number of entrants to academic
secondary schools. This objective :s both reasonable and desirable
in order to alleviate manpower need,;;
(b)  improving the quality, efficiency and coverage of basic schooling
(Grades 1-8) by constructing new schools and providing libraries,
laboratories, workshops and additional furniture and equipment for
existing buildings; by emphasizing curricula development including
the production of textbooks and ins:ructional aids; by upgrading
teacher training facilities; and by doubling the number of entrants
(7 year olds) to achieve full primary enrollment by 1985. With 38%
of education expenditures devoted to this level of schooling, the
quantitative expansion is achievable. However, full enrollment of
females by 1985 is unlikely (para. 1.06).  Furthermore, while
curricula changes have been rapid, the corresponding improvements in
teacher upgrading and acquisition of books, aids and equipment are
part of a continuing process which should not be limited to the SFYP
period;
(c) improving the quality of secondary general education, which is
essential, especially through the provision of texts and equipment.
Again, this is a long-term objective which will be enhanced by the
diminution in the rate of enrollment increases at this level; and
(d) promoting the eradication of illiteracy through the implementation of
a systematic literacy program and by requiring everyone seeking
employment to have completed eight years of schooling or be in
possession of a literacy certificate. This continues a policy
successfully implemented since 1977.



-8-
IDA Strategy and Lending for Education
1.24     Since 1972, the Association has pursued an education lending strategy
focussing on formal vocational preparation and teacher training, to alleviate
the most severe manpower needs. Assistance has also been given to curriculum
reforms and provision of equipment for secondary schools.
1.25     Lending for education began in 1974 with the approval of a US$5.4
million credit (494-YDR). This project was completed by the revised closing
date of December 31, 1981 and a Project Completion Report is being prepared.
Difficulties in negotiating contracts with consultant architects and with
UNESCO delayed the start of the project. Architectural design development was
interrupted by the introduction of the 1977 educational reforms which required
prolonged discussions with the Government in view of the curricular changes
and their applicability to project schools. In general, the project has
successfully extended teacher training opportunities, introduced
pre-vocational curricula, surveyed standards and methods for the design and
construction of schools, trained semi-skilled and skilled workers, and ini-
tiated rural development activities in semi-nomadic and cooperative farming
areas. Reviews by supervision missions suggest that insufficient equipment
has been provided for the trade training center and the farm machinery
center. To ensure satisfactory implementation, supplementary financing for
additional equipment has been arranged by the Government.
1.26     The second credit (865-YDR) for US$4.0 million became effective in
June 1979. Following high bids for civil works, it was agreed to construct
only one new commercial school and convert two other schools into two-year
secondary training schools (one agricultural and one industrial). The need to
redesign and retender for these two schools delayed the project by 15 months;
bids for construction were evaluated in December 1981, about 27 months behind
appraisal estimates. However, construction of the commercial school once
begun has proceeded ahead of schedule although 10 months behind appraisal
estimates. Disbursements commenced in May 1981 and are expected to increase
substantially by mid-1982 with the award of furniture and equipment contracts
and the beginning of construction of the schools being converted. Fellowship
provisions under bilateral assistance have been completed satisfactorily. The
project is expected to be completed by June 1983.
1.27     These first two IDA education projects are being implemented satis-
factorily by the small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established within
the MOE. No expatriates are employed in the PIU. The director has esta-
blished effective working relations with other ministries and maintains
constant contact with senior personnel in the MOE. The experience gained in
the first project, especially in international procurement, by the staff of
the PIU has been beneficial for the second project. The PIU is expected to be
able to handle the implementation of the proposed third project without addi-
tional staff.
1.28     IDA strategy has concentrated on supporting the Government's develop-
ment of new semi-skilled and skilled worker and technician training programs
(para. 1.23). This proposed project continues this emphasis but also returns
to the essential field of teacher upgrading and training. Following this
proposed project, future IDA lending is likely to continue provision of
vocati,onal/technical training especially in relation to on-the-job training;



- 9 -
to assist in quality improvement in general education, especially through the
financing of school furniture, equipment and instructional aids; and to deve-
lop increased technical assistance in such fields as planning, management,
auditing, statistics and evaluation.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government following an IDA
reconnaissance mission in April 1980 and a subsequent IDA preparation assis-
tance mission in October 1980. The project was appraised 1/ in May 1981.
2.02     The proposed project focuses on (a) extending preservice  skilled and
technician preparation at the secondary school level; (b) improving teacher
upgrading and regional training facilities; and (c) initiating qualitative
improvements through a school building maintenance program and studies in key
areas. Institutions for skilled-worker training and preservice teacher train-
ing are essentially the same as the items appraised and financed in earlier
education projects in PDRY. Recognizing the availability of bilateral support
for training, its own limited financial resources and IDA reservations on
manpower needs, the Government requested the elimination of four vocational
schools, one technician institute and the textbook production item identified
earlier.  During appraisal discussions with the Government the mission added
two studies.
Objectives and Scope
2.03     The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
programs fully consistent with its educational development strategy through the
following objectives:
(i)  helping to alleviate urgent manpower needs by providing appropriate
facilities and equipment for the t:raining of skilled workers and
technicians and by improving the rmethods and data base available to
manpower planners;
(ii)  upgrading the skills of existing poorly qualified teachers and
increasing the output of primary l:eachers; and
(iii)  improving the quality of school buildings by establishing school
building maintenance units in two regional education directorates and
by determining urgent school furniture and equipment needs.
1/ The appraisal team comprised: Messrs. ]3.L. Masters (general educator,
mission leader), L.D. Briggs (technicaL educator) and M.T. Mertaugh
(manpower planner, consultant), and Mesdames R. Montague (architect) and
A. MacNamara (economist).



- 10 -
2.04     The project would include the provision of;
(a) construction/extension, equipment and furniture for:
Estimated
Institution                        Grades      Enrollments       Annual Output
Technical and Vocational Education:
Commercial vocational school        9-10            300               140
and technical institute            9-13            450               80
Agricultural technical
instiLtute                         9-13           450                80
Teacher Training.
Primary teacher training
institute                          9-12            590              150
Inservice teacher
upgrading center                   9-12            630              260
School Maintenance.
Mobile building
maintenance units
(b)  technical'assistance;  related to the above project items and fellow-
ships in educational planning and statistics (about 48 man-months of
specialists' services and 210 man-months of fellowships) would be
financed by the Government; and studies (40 man-months of special-
ists' services and 66 man-months of fellowships) would be financed
from the credit (Annex 1, Schedule 2); and
(c)  study visits related to project and tracer system administration, and
the provision of vehicles.
Technical and Vocational Education
2.05     The project would replicate the skill level training (in commerce)
financed in the second education project and initiate technician level train-
ing to respond to manpower demands (para. 1.09). A commercial technical
institute would be built, comprising two sections; a two-year vocational
school and a five-year technician institute. The commercial vocational
school, for grade 8 graduates, would be constructed, furnished and equipped in
the Khormaksar area of Aden near the main business and industrial districts,
thus facilitating the close contacts essential for practical on-the-job
instructional experience and for placement of graduates. The two-year
secondary level program, identical to that financed in the second education



- 11 -
project, would prepare skilled clerical workers in bookkeeping and secretarial
skills. At full capacity, 300 students (about 50% female) would be enrolled
(intake 150) with about 140 graduates annualLy. The MOE anticipates no diffi-
culty in obtaining the 21 teachers required. Key teachers would be trained
under an extension of an existing bilateral training program. The Government
has provided an assurance that an instructor training program will be prepared
to train the other teachers and that such a program would be forwarded for IDA
review at least 18 months prior to the opening of the school currently sched-
uled for October 1985, in time for staff to be trained.
2.06     A commercial technical institute would be part of the Khormaksar
commercial training complex (para. 2.05). Entrants for this five-year program
would be selected from grade 8 graduates.  The technician program would
operate during the morning and the skilled clerical worker program in the
afternoon. The combination of differing level programs in the same complex
would allow for improved and more efficient administration, institutional and
student services, and a more intensive use of staff, equipment and space.
2.07     The institute would have a capacity for 450 secondary level students
(about 30% female), with an intake of 90 and about 80 graduates annually from
the five-year course. The curricula have an almost equal balance of general
education and specialized subjects in two options: accounting and secretarial
practice. The first two years would be devcted to general studies with
increasing emphasis on-technical subjects thereafter. During the final year
of the program, and the summer vacation preceeding it, students would work in
local businesses and industry on a rotational basis to obtain practical job
experience. The 29 instructors provide an z.cceptable pupil:teacher ratio of
16. Instructors would be graduates of the College of Economics and Admini-
stration and would be supplemented by part-time instructors experienced in
business practices who would teach the more specialized subjects. It is not
anticipated that the MOE would experience any difficulty in recruiting
instructors. The Government would arrange t:echnical assistance for about one
or two years each of fellowships to train future heads of departments. In
addition, the Government would obtain about 12 man-months of expert services
to assist in the planning, organization and implementation of these commercial
programs.
2.08     An agricultural technical instituteZ would be constructed, furnished
and equipped at Saber, an agricultural region about 30 miles from Aden where
there is a relatively large population base. The five-year secondary level
program would enroll graduates from grade 8; provision would also be made to
train in a shorter inservice program, groups of more mature people with agri-
cultural experience. Both programs would prepare middle-level technicians who
would initially be appointed to assist more experienced personnel as extension
agents, cooperative farm managers, and specialists in crop and animal produc-
tion, dairy and food processing, and farm mechanization. The shortage of
trained agricultural manpower at this level is severe (para. 1.09).
2.09     The proposed institute would be constructed on the campus of the
two-year agricultural school (annual output, 110 skilled agricultural workers)
being financed under the second IDA education credit. Combining the two agri-
cultural training programs within one institution would allow for improved and
more efficient administration, instructional and student services, and greater
efficiency in the utilization of space and equipment. Also the local emphasis



- 12 -
on agriculture would provide a natural environment for the training programs
with ample opportunity for practical field experience and placement of gradu-
ates. A state farm adjoins the school and arrangements have already been made
for students to use the land and machinery for practical instruction.
2.10     Program options or areas of specialization for the proposed institu-
tion include horticulture, agronomy and animal production. The distribution
of curriculum content over the proposed five-year program is about 60% general
and applied subjects and 40% in the technical specialization. This is accept-
able as the technical courses are emphasized in the last three years following
a sound general secondary program.
2.11     The institute would admit 90 new students annually on a phased basis
beginning in 1985 with a total enrollment of 450 students (about 15% female)
and a planned output of 80 graduates per year from 1990. Approximately 29
teachers would be required for the proposed technical program when it becomes
fully operational providing an acceptable pupil:teacher ratio of 16. Instruc-
tional staff would be recruited from graduates of the Nasser College of Agri-
culture 1/ and given a one-year course in teaching techniques and methodology
prior to their assignment as technical instructors at the new institute. The
Government has provided an assurance that this program will be reviewed by IDA
at least 18 months prior to the opening of the institute currently scheduled
for October 1985. In view of the ongoing bilateral training program, an ade-
quate number of trained instructors will be available. In addition, experi-
enced agriculturalists would be employed on a part-time basis to teach
specialized topics.  Technical assistance would be provided by the Government
for about one or two years each of fellowships for selected individuals who
would serve as heads of divisions in the institute.  In addition, the Govern-
ment would obtain an expert for about 12 man-months to advise on the organiza-
tion, implementation and development of the program.
2.12     In order to ensure the continuing relevance of the training programs
to be offered by the individual      vocational institutions and the placement
of graduates in jobs for which they are trained, the Government has provided
assurances that (i) the MOE will maintain adequate consultation with local and
other bodies to ensure the continued relevance of curricula; and (ii) the MOE
will utilize the evaluation mechanisms, including a tracer study for analysis
of job placement, established under the second education project to evaluate
the programs of the commercial school and the commercial and agricultural
institutes and to provide the Association with annual reports on the evalu-
ation and tracer study results for five years following the first graduation
of students from these institutions. To enable this system to be established,
a study tour for one person for about two months would be financed from the
Credit.
1/ A faculty of the University of Aden preparing professionals in the
agricultural sciences.



- 13 -
2.13     In summary, the training proposed above would complement the programs
financed under the first two education projects and assist the Government
considerably in implementing the SFYP objectives of increasing the skilled and
technician level manpower in the country. This project component would
directly provide an additional 1,200 training places.
Upgrading and Training of Teachers
2.14     In continuing IDA support, initiated in the first education project,
for the Government's priority for improving the quality and upgrading the
level of basic cycle teachers, the project would provide financing for.
(i) renovations and additions to a teacher training institute in Aden which
would become the major location for inservice upgrading courses; and
(ii) construction, furnishing and equipping of a new preservice primary
teacher training institute (PTTI) at Seiyun to train male teachers for the
three most remote regions of the country.
2.15     The proposed inservice teacher upgrading center (ITUC) would become
the focus for upgrading teachers throughout the country and would replace a
dilapidated institute for training primary teachers for the Aden governorate.
At full capacity, it would enroll up to 600 teachers and administrators
annually in a variety of short courses, about 150 teachers in a one-year
upgrading course and 480 preservice trainees; in a four-year program; approxi-
mately 40% would be females. The graduates from these regular programs would
be about 150 and 110 annually.
2.16     Technical assistance for 24 months of specialist services in inser-
vice curriculum development and implementat:Lon would be provided early in the
project to assist the inservice teacher training department to organize and
initiate such programs. New curricula for the ITUC have been prepared in out-
line. The detailed proposals for upgrading were reviewed by IDA during nego-
tiations. Because teachers in the basic cycle have received varying periods
and quality of education and training, the emphasis of the new center would be
on providing upgrading courses of one-year duration for teachers of grades 1-8
who have been unable to complete 12 years of general education. Similar pro-
grams, conducted in the evening, would be introduced in the four regional
teacher training institutes (including the proposed Seiyun PTTI) in order to
cater to regional needs for teacher upgrading. Recently appointed teachers
for grades 1-8 who have been unable to atte2ld the orientation courses in such
subject matter during 1976-79 would be the first scheduled to attend the new
center. The ITUC would also be used as the focal point for upgrading second-
ary teachers who have not received orientation in the new curricula being
progressively introduced from 1980-83.
2.17     The proposed primary teacher training institute (PTTI) would be
constructed at Seiyun, the largest city in the interior of the country to
replace a PTTI at Mukalla on the coast.  Prior to 1981, no teacher training
facilities were available in the interior.  In 1981, a temporary arrangement
was made to train approximately 160 males in a converted secondary school in
Seiyun while females continue to be trained in Mukalla.  As the predominant
need will be for male teachers to teach in the remote villages in these three
regions, the Government has placed a high priority on construction of a new
male teacher training institute in the intErior. Because of the unwillingness



- 14 -
of females to teach in such remote areas, the most urgent need is to prepare
males to teach in the co-educational village primary schools (para. 1.06).
The institute would have a capacity for 560 trainees in a four-year program;
the entry requirements would be grade 8 graduation. Another 30 underqualified
teachers from the region would receive a one-year upgrading program in the
institute. The new PTTI would graduate annually about 120 teachers for grades
1-4 using the teacher training curricula (para. 1.16) approved in 1978 which
has an acceptable proportion of practical methodology and will emphasize the
needs of schools in small villages. The MOE and IDA consider that such a
curriculum will produce a positive qualitative improvement in education.
2.18     Approximately 38 staff would be required for the ITUC and 31 for the
PTTI providing acceptable pupil:teacher ratios of 17 and 19 respectively. No
difficulty is anticipated in providing an adequate number of instructors for
both centers. Summer courses of upgrading acceptable to IDA would be prepared
for these new staff to acquaint them with the new programs and new equipment.
In addition, the ITUC would conduct regular summer courses for staff of all
primary teacher training institutes in PDRY and methodology courses for staff
from the University of Aden. Thus, the ITUC would become an essential element
in the continuing improvement of quality instruction at all levels of formal
education. For this purpose, key instructors would continue to be trained
under bilateral agreements. In addition, up to 18 man-months of fellowships
would be provided for senior administrators of both the ITUC and PTTI to visit
training institutions-and study administration, organization and methods of
training in overseas countries.
Mobile Building Maintenance Units
2.19     This component would support the embryonic school building mainte-
nance units recently established in the regional directorates of education
(para. 1.14). Two mobile building maintenance units would each be equipped
with carpentry, plumbing and electric tools, a welding machine, a small lathe
and a generator. The mobile maintenance units would be stationed at the
governorate education offices in Mukalla and Aden, and would be staffed with
experienced full-time maintenance crews. The mechanical maintenance of these
units would be performed by each governorate along with other public vehi-
cles. No difficulty is anticipated in obtaining adequate recurrent budgets
for these units. The mobile units would be on call for repair work and would
benefit especially those schools which have no maintenance staff of their own
or are unable to find skilled craftsmen in their communities who will do
repair work. The introduction of such units into the two regions would be on
a pilot basis. The pilot scheme would result in strengthening the building
maintenance program and in its eventual replication as a nationwide mainte-
nance system. After one year of operation, the pilot scheme would be eval-
uated by the MOE. The results of this evaluation would be discussed with IDA
in order to determine whether the mobile maintenance unit network should be
extended to other districts and, if so, an agreed implementation program would
be drawn up. The Government provided an assurance during negotiations that,
by March 31, 1984, the MOE will establish a committee to evaluate the effec-
tiveness of the two mobile building maintenance units, will forward a report
to IDA within six months for review and comment, and will implement the agreed
recommendations according to a mutually acceptable timetable.



- 15 -
Technical Assistance
2.20     Provision is being made for expert/consultant services (4 man-years)
and fellowship training abroad (11-1/2 man-years) to assist the implementation
of the specific project items (paras. 2.07, 2.11, 2.16 and 2.18). In addi-
tion, six fellowships for 12 man-months each would be provided in statistical
design and methodology. The Government confirmed during negotiations that
these consultants and fellowships will be provided through bilateral and
multilateral arrangements. Provision is made within the Credit for travel by
project unit staff and for a visit to investigate tracer system administra-
tion. The Government has prepared terms of reference for the consultants and
a training schedule for the fellowship holders.
2.21     Two studies are proposed.
(a)  The manpower planning study would aim at improving the Government's
capability to forecast specific training needs in the context of
future manpower requirements, and ct providing an occupational
classification on which a new wage scale would be based. The study
would complement the proposed manpcower review by IDA in late 1982
which would focus on broader manpower analyses. The Credit would
finance necessary office equipment and vehicles and about two man-
years of expert/consultant services and 4-1/2 man-years of fellow-
ships for the Ministry of Labor (MOL) in order to strengthen the
presently limited capability of that ministry in projecting manpower
needs and establishing wage policies. Study tasks would include the
following; (i) evaluate the methodology of the 1977 employment survey
to assess the validity of the data and, if warranted, in cooperation
with the MOP, complete the processi.ng and analysis of data from that
survey; (ii) review with the Central Statistics Office (CSO) the data
from the 1973 national census and other sources and, if warranted,
further analyze such data; (iii) develop, with the MOP, an occupa-
tional/skill classification for use by the MOL in establishing a new
wage scale; and (iv) assist the CSI) and MOL in the preliminary plan-
ning and designing of the labor fo:rce survey scheduled for early
1983. The Government has provided an assurance that sufficient
counterparts with training in statistics and manpower planning will
be assigned full-time to the study three months prior to the
commencement of the study currently programmed for January 1983.  If
the data referred to in (i) and (ii) above do not warrant further
analysis, the study would assist tnie relevant ministries in preparing
suitable instruments to obtain data and to carry out limited surveys
such that the remaining tasks of tne study could be achieved. The
Government has provided detailed terms of reference for the consul-
tants and an operational plan for the study and for the fellowship
program. The outcome of the study would be to assist the Government
immediately in preparing an occupational classification, developing a
labor force survey instrument and establishing a new wage scale. The
Government provided assurances that the results of the study will be
forwarded to IDA for comment within six months of the completion of
the study.



- 16 -
(lb) A schools inventory survey would quantify the priority needs for
furniture and equipment in schools. The survey would include
(i) designing an inventory of school physical facilities; (ii) train-
ing multi-specialist teams to be appointed by January 1983 to carry
out the survey in two out of the six regional education directorates;
(iii) supervising the collection, recording and analysis of data; and
(iv) preparing, on a priority basis, recommendations regarding needs
based on the present facilities and projected enrollments for each
school in these two directorates. By limiting the study to two
regions, the inventory design and training would become a first phase
in a nationwide review. The more urgent needs in these districts for
furniture and equipment would be identified and the basis would be
laid for a school location planning survey for systematic placement
of new schools to be included in the next Five-Year Plan (1986-90).
The survey would be administered by the Directorate of Planning and
Statistics in the MOE. About 16 man-months has been allocated for a
number of consultants for the study; one man-year of fellowship has
been proposed to train one or more persons in survey methods and
analytical techniques. In addition necessary vehicles and office
equipment would be provided. The implementation of the study would
depend on the training and operation of two local teams to conduct
the survey. The Government provided an assurance that sufficient
counterpart staff will be assigned for this purpose at least three
months prior to the commencement of the survey currently programmed
for January 1983. The Government has also provided detailed terms of
reference and a plan for implementing the study. The results of the
study will be forwarded to IDA for comment within six months of the
completion of the study in order to be considered as the basis for
possible financing in a future education project.



- 17 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01     Summary of Project Cost.  The total aost of the project is estimated
at YD 7.1 million or US 20.6 million equivaleat.  The estimated total cost and
foreign exchange components by main project item are summarized below:
% of
YD Million           US$ Million         Baseline
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total         Cost
Construction, equipment
and furniture:
Commercial school and
technical institute          0.5    0.5    1.0   1.3    1.7    3.0    21.1
Primary teacher
training institute           0.9    1.0    1.9   2.8    2.8    5.6    39.5
Extension, equipment
and furniture;
Agricultural technical
institute                    0.1    0.3    0.4   0.5    0.7    1.2         8.5
Inservice teacher
upgrading center             0.5    0.5    1.0   1.2    1.4    2.6    18.3
Equipment only:
Mobile maintenance
units                        0.0    0.1    0.1   0.0    0.2    0.2         1.4
Technical assistance:
Specialists                    0.1    0.1    0.2   0.1    0.3    0.4         2.8
Fellowships                    0.0    0.2    0.2   0.1    0.4    0.5         3.5
Studies and PIU
administration               0.0    0.1    0.1   0.1    0.6    0.7         4.9
Baseline cost                    2.1    2.8    4.9   6.1    8.1   14.2   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                       0.2    0.3    0.5   0.6    0.7    1.3         9.2
Price increase                 1.1    0.6    1.7   3.1    2.0    5.1    35.9
Subtotal                     1.3    0.9    2.2   3.7    2.7    6.4    45.1
Total project cost               3.4    3.7    7.1   9.8   10.8   20.6



- 18 -
3.02 A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
YDs Million         US$ Million         Baseline
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total   Cost
Construction:
Academic and communal
facilities                   1.3    1.1    2.4   3.7    3.2    6.9    48.6
Boarding                       0.5    0.5    1.0   1.5    1.3    2.8    19.7
Staff housing                  0.1    0.1    0.2   0.3    0.3    0.6        4.2
Subtotal                     1.9    1.7    3.6   5.5    4.8   10.3    72.5
Furniture;                       0.0    0.3    0.3   0.1    0.8    0.9        6.3
Equipment:                       0.1    0.4    0.5   0.2    1.3    1.5    10.6
Subtotal                     0.1    0.7    0.8   0.3    2.1    2.4    16.9
Technical assistance:            0.1    0.4    0.5   0.3    1.2    1.5    10.6
Baseline cost                2.1    2.8    4.9   6.1    8.1   14.2   100.0
Contingencies:                   1.3    0.9    2.2   3.7    2.7    6.4    45.1
Total project cost           3.4    3.7    7.1   9.8   10.8   20.6
3.03     Basis of cost estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the pro-
posed project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts for
similar institutions.  Furniture and equipment costs are based on current CIF
unit prices and are adjusted to include local transportation and installa-
tion. Project cost estimates do not include any identifiable import duties
and taxes. In line with recent experience, the estimate of technical assis-
tance costs is based upon: (a) average costs per man-month of about US$8,600
for experts (consisting of fees and per diem allowances) and about US$2,240
for fellowships, of which 80% would be foreign costs with the remaining local
costs to include in-country transport and subsistence; and (b) average travel
costs to and from home office or study base abroad of about US$1,800 per
individual. Baseline cost estimates have been adjusted to reflect prices at
the date of negotiations.
3.04     Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of civil works, furniture and equipment and 5% of the estimated cost of
technical assistance. The project cost also includes price escalation
contingencies calculated for the period beginning at the date of negotiations
and in accordance with an appropriate schedule of implementation (Annex 1,
Schedule 1). Annual rates of price increase for various categories of
expenditure are indicated in Annex 1, Table 3. Prices are expected to



- 19 -
increase during the project implementation period by a total of about 37% for
civil works, 24% for furniture and equipment and 17% for technical assis-
tance. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 33% of
baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated
to be about 45% of the baseline cost.
3.05     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$10.8 million equivalent or about 52% of the total project cost.
Calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the assumptions
that (a) all civil works contracts will be awarded to local construction
firms, and (b) all equipment and furniture will be directly imported. The
resulting foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is as
follows; (a) civil works, 46%; (b) furniture, 90%; (c) equipment, 90%; and
(d) technical assistance, 80%.
Project Financing
3.06     The proposed credit of US$6.0 million would finance 29% of the total
cost of the project.  At negotiations, the Government stated that it will
finance the remainder of the total project costs through its own and multi-
lateral and bilateral resources.  The proposed financial plan is summarized
below;
Government,
Multilateral
and Bilateral                        IDA               Total
US$         % of              US$          % of           US$
Million     Financing         Million      Financing      Million
(Construction    8.6        83                  1.7        17             10.3
Furniture        0.1        10                  0.8        90              0.9
Equipment        0.2         10                 1.3        90              1.5
Technical
assistance    1.0         67                 0.5         33              1.5
Baseline cost  9.9         70                 4.3         30             14.2
Contingencies;
Physical        0.9        69                 0.4         31              1.3
Price increase 3.8         75                  1.3        25              5.1
Subtotal       4.7         73                  1.7        27              6.4
Total project  14.6         71                 6.0         29             20.6
cost



- 20 -
Recurrent Expenditure
3.07     Project institutions will begin enrolling students in 1985, and will
be fu]Lly operational by 1990. At that time, the project institutions will be
generating about YDO.16 million annually in recurrent costs, corresponding to
about 0.5 % of the projected public recurrent expenditure on education for
that year. In view of the high priority of the proposed institutions, the
Government can be expected to meet these expenditures.
Implementation
3.08     The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools is sche-
duled to be completed by April 1986 while the technical assistance component
would be completed by December 1986. Construction of the commercial and agri-
cultural institutes and the ITUC is expected to be completed in time for the
1985/86 academic year. This period for construction is based on experience in
the two previous education projects and the more advanced stage of designs by
the time of Board presentation. To allow sufficient time for submission of
the final withdrawal applications, the Closing Date would be June 30, 1987.
3.09     Administration. The Project Implementation Unit established in the
MOE for the implementation of the first two education projects and responsible
to the Deputy Minister for Education, would also be responsible for the imple-
mentation of the MOE components of this project. The PIU has performed
effectively during the implementation of the first two projects and does not
require any additional staff (para. 1.27). For this project, it would be
assisted by the General Directorates of Technical and Vocational Education and
of Teacher Training.  To assist implementation, financing would be available
in the Credit for study visits by PIU staff and the provision of vehicles.
The Director of External Relations in the Ministry of Labor has been
designated to implement the MOL study component.
3.10     Architectural Services.  Under agreements signed between the MOE and
the Ministry of Construction (MOC), preparation of designs and construction
documents for all project institutions together with supervision of the
construction are being undertaken by the Design Unit of the MOC. The staff of
the Design Unit are well-qualified to carry out this work; key staff have been
appointed and preliminary designs have been completed and approved by IDA;
design development drawings are also completed and preparation of final bid
documetnts is underway.
3.11     Furniture and Equipment Lists.  Preliminary furniture and equipment
lists for the new project institutions have already been prepared and approved
by IDAS. Final lists, specifications and bid documents have been completed.
As suitable storage is not available, bidding will proceed so that delivery of
goods will coincide with the completion of civil works.
3.12     Sites.  Suitable sites for all project institutions are already owned
by the Government and have been allocated to the MOE. Existing institutions
have sufficient land to allow for their expansion.
3.13     Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to a total of about
US$15.6 million including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Association guide-



- 21 -
lines. It is anticipated that because of the scattered nature of the works
and the relatively small cost of the individual institutions all civil works
contracts would be awarded to local firms. Furthermore, no foreign firms
submitted bids on similar civil works advertised under international compe-
titive bidding in the previous two education projects. Detailed lists and
specifications of furniture and equipment to be financed under the Credit
would be presented to the Association for review and approval prior to
procurement. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to about US$3.2 million
including contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large
packages to permit bulk procurement. Bid packages for furniture and equipment
estimated to cost in excess of US$100,000 woUld be awarded in accordance with
the Association's guidelines for ICB. Small items or groups of items
estimated to cost less than the above figure, or items of a specialized nature
for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under normal govern-
ment procedures which are satisfactory to IDAL and would include, to the extent
possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. The
total value of furniture and equipment so procured would not exceed US$0.3
million equivalent which would represent about 10% of the estimated furniture
and equipment costs including contingencies. In the event of local bids for
furniture and equipment being received under ICB, the local manufacturers
would be allowed a margin of preference in comparison with foreign bids, equal
to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15%
of the CIF price, whichever is lower. Draft tender and contract documents for
furniture/equipment and civil works would, on completion, be forwarded for IDA
review and approval; IDA approval of tender evaluation documents would be
required prior to the award of all contracts for furniture and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,00r) or more and for all civil works
contracts. IDA reimbursement for all other contracts would be contingent upon
IDA approval of tender evaluation documents subsequent to contract awards.
Technical assistance and other consultancy services financed by the Credit
would be obtained in accordance with the Association's guidelines for the use
of consultants (August 1981).
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates
3.14     Expected completion dates are listed in the following table for the
critical activities in project implementation.  Such dates are achievable with
the proposed project management arrangements and experience, and will serve as
a basis for project implementation monitoring.



- 22 -
MOE           MOL
Civil works:
Completion of design development
drawings and site plans                   03/01/82
Completion of final construction
documents                                 10/01/82
Commencement of construction               07/01/83
Completion of construction                 04/01/86
Furniture and equipment:
Completion of preliminary lists            01/01/82
Completion of final lists
and bid documents                         07/01/83
Completion of installation of
major furniture and equipment             04/01/86
Technical assistance;
Commencement of programs:
Fellowships                               06/01/82       01/01/83
Experts                                   06/01/82       01/01/83
Accounts and Audits
3.15     The PIU employs a full-time qualified accountant.  Detailed, accurate
and up-to-date records of project accounts have been maintained for the first
two education projects. The PIU director and accountant regularly consult
with the MOE accounts' department, obtain clearances for capital investment
expendlitures through the MOP and the Ministry of Finance and have established
good working relationships with the Central Bank of Yemen for the processing
of all project contracts. Thus, the quality and promptness of all project
accounting are good. The volume of work is not sufficient to justify any
additional personnel in the PIU.
3.16     IDA is currently conducting a review of the Government's overall
audit capabilities. The project accounts are subject to government audit by
the Central Board of Audit.  The second education Development Credit Agreement
provides for an annual audit of project accounts to be submitted to the
Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year; however, as no
disbursements were made from the Credit until May 1981 the first audit is not
expected to be submitted until the first six months of 1982. The PIU has
already been advised that such audits would also be required for the third
project accounts and has notified the Central Board of Audit that these audits
should be scheduled. The Government provided assurances during negotiations
that the accounts of the project would be audited and certified copies of
project accounts as well as an annual audit report would be submitted to the
Association not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.



- 23 -
Disbursements
3.17     Disbursements (Annex 1, Schedule 3) would be on the basis of;
(a)  civil works:   17 % of total expenditures;
(b)  furniture and equipment: 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported items and of local expenditures ex-factory for locally
manufactured items; 85% of local expenditures for items procured
locally off-the-shelf; and
(c) technical assistance: 100% of total expenditures.
These percentages would be adjusted as required to assure continued financing
from the available Credit funds of expenditures in each category for the
entire implementation period.
3.18     Disbursements from the Credit have been estimated to take place on
average about six months after the incurring Df the expenditures and the
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (Annex 1, Schedule 3) has been calculated
on this basis. Implementation schedules have been drawn up on the basis of
the periods required for the implementation of the two previous education
projects. Implementation periods for repeater education projects in PDRY have
decreased in length as-the PIU and MOC gain in experience. In a comparison
with the country-wide disbursement profile for IDA projects in PDRY, the end
of the implementation period for the proposed project falls at the point where
about 95% of the average credit has been disbursed.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     Continuing the work of previous IDA education projects the proposed
project would reinforce the Government's efforts to expand and strengthen
vocational and technical education. Not only would regional imbalances,
especially in teacher training, be alleviated but a much-needed impetus would
be given to inservice teacher upgrading throlughout the country. All the
institutions in the project would benefit from the development of new
curricula. In technical and vocational trailing the incorporation of an
internship or practicum period of training oa-the-job is seen as a major
innovation which is likely not only to increase practical competence but to
improve relations between the employers and the training entities.
Substantial benefits are also expected from the initiation of a school
building maintenance system which can be replicated and is likely to provide
an essential impetus to school maintenance operations. The studies would
provide the Government with more effective planning mechanisms, and a detailed
assessment of school furniture and equipment needs.



- 24 -
Risks
4.02     The proposed project does not face any special risks in its imple-
mentation because the experienced staff of the PIU have demonstrated their
capability to implement similar project items successfully.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     As a condition of negotiations, the Government prepared draft terms
of reference for and specified qualifications of the experts/consultants
required in the project, including those for the studies, together with an
operational plan for implementing these studies and a proposed timetable for
fellowships (paras. 2.20 and 2.21).
5.02     During negotiations, agreement has been reached on the following
principal points:
(a) programs of instructor training for the technical and vocational
institutions will be presented for IDA review at least 18 months
prior to the opening of the institutions (paras. 2.05 and 2.11);
(b) adequate consultation will be maintained with local and other
interested parties to ensure the continued relevance of the curricula
of the technical and vocational institutions and an evaluation
mechanism, including a tracer system for analysis of job placement,
will be utilized by the MOE and the results of the evaluation and the
tracer studies will be submitted to the Association for five years
following the first graduates from these institutions (para. 2.12);
(c) an evaluation committee will be appointed by the MOE by March 31,
1984, to review the effectiveness of the mobile building maintenance
units in the two regional directorates and within six months, a
report will be forwarded to IDA for review and comment, following
which the Government will implement the agreed recommendations
according to a mutually acceptable timetable (para. 2.19);
(d) sufficient counterpart staff will be assigned at least three months
prior to the commencement of the studies currently programmed for
January 1983 to permit the studies to begin and that, upon
completion, the results of these studies will be forwarded to the
Association within six months for comment (para. 2.21); and
(e) the accounts of the project will be audited and certified copies of
project accounts as well as an annual audit report will be submitted
to the Association not later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year (para. 3.16).



- 25 -
5.03     The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDRs 5.3
million (US$6.0 million equivalent) to the Govrernment of the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
New Education Structure, 1980
Academic Secondary           Faculty of Medicine
.Higher College of Education (Degree)
Teacher Training             Higher College of Education (Diploma)
Vocational Schools           Faculty of Law
Unity Schools                                                                          Faculty of Economics and Administration
Health Manpovver.(MOPH)    Faculty of Agriculture
Fisheries (MOFW)           {Loo   [               }
1         :         1 2  3  4   I Faculty of Technology
Technician Training|                                                        
S   Assisted by IDA Projects                                  H                                                                                                               r
Agriculture Centers (MOA)an-30
Trade Training (MO L)
World Bank-23409



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Education Pyramid, 1979/80
Total                                                                                                                    Female
Enrollments                                                                                                             Erlmn
Enrollments                                                                          Level as %      Enrollments as     as % of
Level and                                                                                 of Total        % of Age-group      Total for
Grade       Age Totals                                      University                   Enrollment      Total  Female       Each Level
Universityrl
16+   593  29,000                                         426  1 t6
Un i  776+    593 29,000             MALE                       274        FEMALE           1.1          2.5    1.4           42.0
14  1,087  35,000                                         596   491
13    915  38,000                                         431  484
Secondary/                                                    Secondary
12   5,071   41,000                                   3,645       1,426
11   6,555  44,000                                   4,578        1,977
|    _                  ~~~~ ~~~12.1  22.0   11.5           27.61
10   8,871   45,000                                6,230           2,641
9  17,625  46,000                        13,165                     4,460
UnityZJ                                                      Unity
8  18,790  47,000                        13,670F                     5,120
7  26,917  48,000                19,522                                 7,395
6  32,007  49,000             22,644                                      9,363
5  40,310  51,000      28,603                                               11,707
4  33,94   3,0  2,9-786.8     65.3   39.5           29.7
4  33,794   53,000           23,937                                      19,857
3  38,971   55,000        26,480                                              12,491
2  38,894  57,000         26,493                                             12.401
1  44,023  59,000   30,938                                                    13,085
310        20         110         ( 110                 210                                                               t
(Thousands)
Source: Compiled by the mission from statistics prepared by the Directorate of Planning and Statistics, MOE, and
the University of Aden, May 1981.
1 / Includes bedouins, teacher training, vocational and technical enrollments in MOE institutions.
2/ Includes bedouin enrollments.
World Bank-23408



-28 -
CONPFARATIVE EBIUCAIION INOOICATORS                                    lA-- 1
JANUARY 27., 198I2                                           Page 1
*  .      ,          ~~~~~~~CENTRAL:           :                  i 
*  .     .          : ~~~~~~~GOVT. :I                              
*  lGNP/              IEXP. ON:                                    I           :F8RI. :RECURREKT:                      SC
*   : APITA:           IEDO. As: EDIUCATION    : LITER- F-IEI. :COKPLE- :ITUJ- bANIT COST:PROGRESS-  SEC.  1111J  AHIKHERI
* IAT  I              % TTL. I RECURRENT    :ACY          I ENROLL:TIOGA      :DENTS:PRIM. Eli.: ION RATE :ENRDL_ [I ElNI o:ENROL LI
*   KARKE?: 1. ONE'  :CENTRAL:EXF ALLOCATES:  NATE :R8TIO  :RATE FOR:PER  :813'  GAP/lEROM PSI, RATIOI ,FER   IF81TI
POP, :PRICES. DEVOTED': GOVT .            TO:          (Y. OPF    NE-T  :P'RI.SCH.:TEAIC'H: CAPIT'A  ITO  SEC.  lNET   :1ACK   0FO'D 0 
YR:NILLS.l 1(881)l TO EDJ.I EXP.   :PRI. GEC. KO.:ADULTLS1: 101   :CYC:LE(%J:ER    I                          /.        151   :ER   . 
:41) :  (21:   131            141          (0)       :   61  :171          (4)      19):   (100)         101)   I1(2) :1 I14
AD'VANCED'
AUSTRIA          74   7.OH 7,020H   5.01'    9.9K   24?  51Y   15Y    99               E)       93C1     26       10.7C       59C       SO5C    09C   06G.E5
CANAGIA          78  23.0   8.670       8.1      4.3K    25   39   23        99      000       000       20       17.6       080        92      003    22.00
GERMANY P.REP.78  61.3 GO,300           4.88     8.4L    ...,,... .    99            . ..     0(10        ,..               100        94       228    02.00',
JAPAN            70 114,9H 7.7G0IK    4 .35 r    ..W      4OVY 37UY I JuEJ  99        990       990      215      . .         998F      950Y   200    2469YY
NETHERLANDS    78  13.    9,200         8.3    03.8L    20   35   24         99       96        93       19       07,8        94?       al2      03     12.00
NEW ZEALAND,   73   3,92NH5530K    5.20   113.0K    39   24   29             99       99?       89       26       09.4        99E       67      19      24.001
NORWAY           76   4.09 9560         7.2      9.30'   54   24   11        99       99         9        GA      0. 99E                6.      0       010
SWEDEN           78   8.3  00,40         .8PWF  I03.0L   37   00   900            99  88        00       16)      27.         00        7        30     3.0
Li K.            78  56.0  4,5960    0.6         2.6K    26   38    22        99      99        100      24       07.        000        65      17      20.6
U.S.A.           78 208.0  9.770        7.1      2.96 K    ..    7I, 078   1s  99     90       988       223      ...         99        97      1.90    41,111;
EUROPE
GREECEL          76   9:4K 43500K    2.6W    00.6)3   37Y  26Y  20Y   86A             99        SC       31       .6.2?      70D        80x    27       011.00
IRELANS         74   3.2H 3.181041   51W    ,.            43?  410   14?    98,   0019?~    998          30                  9 .  O     61?    1.       1 .4/Y
PORTUGOAL        77   9.88 I.940K    3,6W    00.7E    41                     700ti 1  82-       60*      189        I,07"3                         2     5
ROMANIA          70  21.8K  1650HK   40          0.9K    36Y  09    03       913    011         ..       210      .9..                  49X     2       10 00
SFPAIN           74  37 .0 H3.960H   2. 4A       5.0K    4'?   _2      1     906    010?5                313       .                    78!     30         6B/
APRI CA
ALGERIA          79 08.      1.400H   7.1         ,.      34K  26K  "16    31Kl   9411          4 5K?    27       11. I9     52It'KP   3731"                 0X
BENIN            78    3.4    20        6.0      31       43   2005 1                42         3 1       46      14.0II                        4.
BOTSWANA         79   0.8    70         6.7      19,3    418    2            30      94         74       32       220        3    ~       ,     IE 
UJRUINO E        79   4.0    080        2 .S7L   20,60r 441   331   2"'L    70S    2111         34       10       1I.0       0>             '
CAMEROON         76   8.1H  4901)    3.7W        13.6K  33   44   '0          ,.     6                                                    D 2     4           06,C
C.N.R.           74   1.9K1  270H       3.0C6    ...    56D 098    .,.               791        25       68       2:1 .08    1.           x     2/)l    31
CAN              70   4. 314  10H0    3.0W    13.5F  78:                     01      29080      30       6950?    . ..                          3 YY 0    .0 ClY
G0o50            80   0.4    260K       6.0      20.40   401  28    04,   25E         981                         06.0       1i         2       30       1, 4
CONOBI           74 E   1.5K  080K      6.06       ...    40   32    21      00?    0330        03       6         3.3A      4 E        3X        :        4
DJOBOITIT       88    0.4    440        0.4      00.8     60    4      -       05      32                41.6                                   1
EGYP'T           783  38.7    40        01        003    30   30    26         44G     723       5         30?     ..         849                 1' 0 0
ETHICOPN A       78  31.0      30       2.2       01.00           .01 ..              35                           . 5                          40
GABON           7     0.6H 3.370       05 0      ...     2510    0            ..     000        0        46"13     47        8         31Y    '01    0 ',9y
GAMBIA          76   0.6K   00K        3.36       6.5   46   20-    6        00      27        90        33     .44. 8192              13       2.
OHANA            74   100HK 380oH        .        05.01   43?   22?   20Y0   .        600?y    62D       30?       .         141',      3..IT   101 E   I Dy
GUINEA          76   5.0KH260K         4.3K0     ,.      30   31   30        ..      30X       64        4,5      30.0?     86             X     6      40
IVORY COAST    76   7.8KH90HK   6.81             ..       33   46    03        9N     00        86,      43       08.7       47          7Y -,1
RENYA            79  00.3    380        0.8      17.95   71   05    14       45       92        74       40      0IS.8       4L          1      21       11
LESOTHG          78    0.3     340C    4.1       21.30, 41   291   20        52       60         2         5       80        4 ,                23       090
LIBERIA          77   0.7K    46DK   3.18    01.9L.   23   03   26           30       s11                 5    4  27.8?      76         2X       1
MADAGASCAR       77   8.3K    200K    4.0W   05.30    03   28    08          00       90        33        44       ,, .13                       '4       1 70
MALAWI           789    .      200      2.2HW    8.7K    40    23   23       20       09        17K       62K     00.00      0     ~     6X      2
MALI             71    6.3H    030K    4.2KW  21.7K    45E  37P   ORe_   OE           22E       ..        4E       ...        0          6
MAURITANIA       78    1.0     270      0.5     16.8      33   43   25        17      32        6         45      52.0       3D          9        5
MAURITIUS        76   0.9K    920H   4.7W    07,0K    00   26          6     80B    94          98        24      08.0?       9          5       , 
MORO CCO         80  08.       740      6.3W    07.0K    36   44   20)    218         72X       30        39      19.7       40         2         1      45
NGR           77   0:.K    240K        1380    23.310  52   43       0      8       07       00        39       38,:7     31                   '4
NIGERlIA         74  806K    600KH   4IOCY    9.60    23?   06Y  42?       .          49? X     ,,..      34CY                           IC.) 105  '05 0l :45?
RWAN ON          80    0.0     200      3.2     20.7      62   07    I0    21;        66        62?      40?      04.0                           13      0 40
SENEOCAL         77    0,4K    360K    5.       B8.8E    46   34    20        00      32        ...      48       21.6K      20         10      2'1      15_"
SIERRA LEONE  73   3HK         230K    3.4W4'    06.0H   31.   36    30       00?     341       40       32.      03.:70     603        131     2          0?
SOMALIA          74    3.7K    180KH  2.0W       8.1K    00    00    21       50      44        ..,      32        20.4      405                 J            0
SUSAN            70  07.4K    340K?   4.0W       0.2K    48    36    16 . 20          34        74       33       46,, 5     33         1         4      12
SWAZILANI'       713   0.5K    5080     6.I0W  21.40    37    33    23       62       92X       48       37        7'6U3X                       2        2 01OX
TANZANIA         73   07.1     230      6.8NW  00. 3K    43   09    10       66F      86        67,      0         II         9          4        0)u   O0 3B)
YOGI3            737  2.4K    320K    0.0W    13.70    30   28    21          58      74        40       58       03.313                        445         )
TUNISIA          7    6.4      120      9.      06.9      40    36    20     62      100        80       39       0.         3          30      34       6 0
UGANDA           71   I2.4K    2BO0K?  3. 40? I   .       348? 450 Y 220?,   205A     03KY     ...       34DY      ..         46         608?   '(0      0 .'.6?Y
LOPPFER VOLTA    77    0.6K    160K    3.4W        4      30    06    32       0      03        23       51                                       5      1
ZAIRE            787  26.8K    240K?  6,0W        ...     49   26    22       10      860       44       42      20DOA       4                   '7      0 000
28880A           81)  5.7      5.40     0.6     00.011   48    23   22       44       82,       80       48       1.          9          I        2      15
.ZOM0ASWE         81  7.7        700     0.1      08.5      62   32.     6     74       911      50        38       200        85            
CENTRAL AMERICA AKD THE CARIBBEAN
BAKAMAS          79   0.22,780o    6.08    23.11    36   36    00             93      99        97       24                   9          1,      1
DARBADIO         765   0.2  2.080H   8.0        21.7K    43   31    06       99      06I8                2         88          8        90       1
COSTA 8006       80    2.21.800         8.4     383.0     40   27    33       90      93        77       33         .2        77        40       27     140
CUBIA            783   9.7  000         8.0           ..96                            9K        903       22        ...      9VA        615      1  1. 05:0
DOMI NICAN RE7P 72         H       HK80  3.     0.OPF 4         24    22      0       8          7        0        4.08       63        14       74      7.3
EL SALVAD,OR    77'   4 3K    640H   4.0        09.31    64      8    27      62      880       32        38,       ...       41        23       7021      3
GUATEMALA        735   6.6K    930K    0.9      02.6K    00    23    14       47      64        26        30,       ...       68         8      21j      4~,09?y
KAITI            80    5.0     260      3.4V       .      60     9     6      23.     50        20        40      18.0        62F       144      27      0.
KONOOURAS        781   3.4     4830     4.2P    07.8K    62P   lOP   19P    60E       75.       30        3S      12.SYE1    68         10       17      4.3
JAMAICA          8     2.2  1240K    6.0        183.40    37   43   20       90       98        98        40       2.3        95        81       27       .3
MEXICO           80    67.41,80         0.0     083.70    46   38    0       92       98i       03        44       9.0        56        56       17     1030
NICARA GUAr      78   2.5i    660       3.0W    1 6.90I   610,  030   130    90L      61        24        44       7. 30      830        4L,    37       7.000
FPANAMA          78i   0.8  1, 260      0.4     12.7K    420  030   03       786A    97         820       320     10.6        801       48,      340    20.00
YR0NIDAD S T. 77,   0.0K 3,101K    4.0          11.7K    48    32   20       95       98        91        30      00.5?       49        62       7
SOUTH AMERTICA
ARGENTINA        783  26.7  0.910    4.4          83K    430  31F  180    93          891       02r       17                  e  7.     30.             2 3.00
BOLIVIA          76      03K    010K     01.0   30.K      ...           .     42L     800       280       24        ,.         ...       4       10I
BRAZIL           75 19.0  1.510K    2.80W    6.2K    40 20             20     646     BBF       ..        278?                          26F  ..  O  158?    6.00
CHILE            75  007K 1470K    3.8S?   13.08    239   00?   50Y    I..    09?                .        30?8578              .        40    . A.   1Y6.05?
COLOMBDIA        74  206       90K      30?..  .          44Cr 22?00           8     1000?Y    20         33?     110I0                  6?      04:.7
ECUIADOR         8     8.4  03690    6.G OF'              40    30    16      80     005        48        36      02.6        86        47       16      25.70
GUYANA           74I   0.BK    560Ki   0.8N   03.4KH   47   30    14          83A     920       09        33      09.80I       09       62X0     2   14  0.00
P'ARAGAT         7     3.0     9820K    0.4     12.6K    42   07   20         84      82        3         28        .1        70         2       02       .0
PERU             716.8KH 680K    4.20    00.011   40?  22?   00?    72               0000       38        39C?     I 008      70        480      23? 1.1
50006 UA         71    2.9K 1,790H   2.0          9.4K    46   34   20        94      931       .. .      24      02.3K       83         ..      LO .0
VENEZUELA        72  14.OK 28500K    4.6W4   183.9K    300  280I  3508   77A          80        ...       33        .. .     ...        33       ...    12.630Y



- 2 9 -
SO[141'ARA -T I 0117  E-11(1   ((IIN   TN 'O  AI 1(,  ( O(1N4111I
,JANUARY   279   19B4?                                                                                        Page  2
5  NP/                            :ElF,.  ONi%Of Fi LI  -LiI .A'                                                        :PI  I    :1H, :19  I'Ub-:,-F Ni:I(-
*     FTI:                      Ii LDII   A!;   EJULKAl I ON             II IER- -       F'RI NT      LC1-'OhPl I    :siT-   :IIf1j  uoI_          -ol ib-1  :;Iv; ISE  .            I]      -]l- 
*        1 AT                       %i   TI.          I R   U-:kLF-iE NT       AC17         IE NR DIL; I :114       ION   liIFT  F-IRl] ti            ,1E11 O      hlI     I RsiI Fs 'IiFItll    il-  ILI
MAR411-  E 171            L' 41'    :ELNIT RIA IE. X ' Al I I11011187        F     -IRIlL. IF-T Ill    RAIE  b-OF :111              IIA  S    041/N li, b-l,Ib-i  M)id    1--. 1   II       F.1      P,-  1 1)
P.M 1I L  ,:    I 10(1.1    71.   E I'i.J    1.X1',          FF; RL         . ILK  b-1     si. j  I: I            :2C :l II           F..'                      :      :F'
AS] A  AND  1(1E (;iI b-
AF GH-I11 T'll             '7    114 4 -       11.0(.1       II I                        4 7       0'9      iS         3~         24 1 X           63Il           3'           1.               60'                00         1            1
s                 DAIA941   IDE !;il:l''               'IIIC' NE                                            .A       I        2              1'-    '',I11                I          'I,:P                                                                         3
Kb-l I NA                   9  9/;   9>           (                        o6            3           ,      3           ,6        1        ~       64                                9'YlL      ((71" ix                                       Ei'
11'lb MI  -f, 1. 31 '9I- Et hOu                             2        I                                                29"19      WOO~X                           4i                                             :111/;       ."               ,4
3 140111 11,1E I P         II          ,H     340                 WU                              3[            ,-                                 4H                                                             
I PrL  :1(9H                                              l      3      II ,                           i  1,  liii  6                 Ii           , -, 
-1iRIr Nl2 b-9                                  I El 0          I I       I    E         I';)      4';       B  Ill                   7            14                               7          "                                         "
1(Kb-I P,/I    31,1, e10 I(I;i    6                                               f      35       -                                   : -i I X     441            4''                6  91L    O-9
L EBANDIr                         349 Pw                                                -         4(9      1 I]       Al         N L                             I 9          2` 71~ 1'       64.1
MAIL AY111A               NO)    1',' 2     I  461um         6, !         1 iF I0                                      nOB1   ~  ,)  9 eK          9 4            "K             6el III         44
liLFA;          Eli;    14.4~         ~~~ Ib       9 III W        "9  9        2 ''OF    2  F'1    41F                      F f  "       29FF             IF                          64i
OlIN                    El '         Nil                       /44            I                                                     X            14, 9
i'AhbI STA4               79     / 9 7        7;;           7  I              'j        311      2"        2        '4           MItX               I) F         44             6,1                               0                              E,Ii.
161111N, ,.3              7        29 1 62  il               Ti  '11F     i /  Ob        394      16b       24         3.         5   1'           731P           3;1          21,1(            9''              ;'9'''                    ' '-9'
KNO 1.L. l fl'  ILK             46  E        690o            ) 2113      1t             64       lb-elF-,                            4            94.~           3!             7,0            91                             7,     .l)0
E.I NI(;KP- R L                                 'tb-Oil     7.   Ml!   14. 91           391Y      399      17Y        7'.A         I YXY          721A          2SlY            7 ,41          Y Y              449Y           I'l        7.914
E-tit ((Ml(N  10;         E I            .      4 b-K'       54           II   01 V      4]1      3 4       79                        91..         70             3F,,  
67<1(1                         9;,Ib-I       ~~~~~~                               ~~~~44-.4  34?  25  21               ''1          4;             71            771             Fl1',6]
Tb-l A I  14 A   i2''44    , 5 ~                             4,081W         I l  ',YK-    00      30k       111        84i'       1                311            3],          1  0,1'         7Yii                             ,          3.0O;
YFRE N                    7i           b       41 (Oi-I      ;i,i           I 10,111     A,i'    "] 91F    27F'4II1.                               I F)           to           19,Y  3          ]'l                 x                       .1291191B
4(11416   (11  E: SIFIIIFd     1      41 I4':                       I     E?     649       1(9      96          4         I'7 1,           41             18           7                 11             13;            ''         '-O
RIFFLE: I                                         Ii;.2-         I -9--1:1)    IN'-9-9---4- 1-3'                                      (1.7-            ('-'         17-                :1-              .--I- ,-9
9.71/         39).0         911    73'    5019            96)        1131'          19               69   9    52.2- 1            99               b-il         41',]    4L,i'9
Il11k)] I L>-E liI F'F :  1                             1,1 .,       17,0~  -      4'        35       22         16          9<:              91            4]           9                93               II 47                    -1 'I 
Ml D1III:                            4W-'         13, O          41       2-16      I 4        ei]]       67               61             74           171              AIF             24            '7' . 4
L. DO E Ri                               I 74        I, V        34       2TI       13i       27%         O9              '37             29           70 L             4 1             1 1          I               -I0
I-iYNBI'ti  11 . ,    D [AlTUF   UNAVI 0     .AU10                        A--I  9" ?l    of9:  Pl,Ed'  14              N"zz-1; IFF-RE 11   118111                                           0 017
hA44(NI:1IJEIE   Niltb- (if., NJ (Li     II F  4.BLE   t 1.9/.                                     F': 13IIi
7   1IiL7TI 0411911                                    1'IY- 1 -i                                  O:IN 11 1; lI] NI:   lliN1.TIiN  410]                               1:1LU((441:]   b-NI-  7-W1R1I' 1954 A           I,IrAI AS
* 1 .1 ILhfi  1  b-'lFT'--T14E.  (1U1(1N91 41          Ii y 194                                 R: 114N1141        CLIE  OFJT. iL Y                                                              LiFll" 91 4REI       '1ibl
*1,   C7;h41TNiT'  WI11 H 1<) MINI                          ::: 9~                                      S: MIN [9 14 1. FY  OI   IF IIL:ATION   141MD]   lbl 911                          3  1] 1   4   1111]t 41(TI (FINB
*4    OMB] NID  WI TH1 1-114 HIiR                       F :19/76                                     T  401MO F    Htl  STATE 1<  0(101    ONLY                                                       5Nl,'.'Ii   1JN1 100
0- 19/                                      (I L~XCI LIINI 1    CENT 1A61   11101.                                                           116 Al1ES11000L
Nl Tb-/Il                                    V:  11 CtLli  I)   E 14 V1 OTlI1     E 1XPFNDI 1T1111-                                           YEA141111l,
1:- 1 '79                                    0  1F041  IT    I EXPENIB 1111E  ONL~Y
4  I9111I                                    YFlbH14(TCIIILSOURCES1
COMPARATIVE0   EI'IULA111111)  TIt)T(  AF-E   iLJ!l IL   I   'Till   EOAIILUIT((I     01:  VAIOUSI;1    E17UII,61-(ION   IY(]TEN]  441'  ANA1YS171     0F  RE-L-AiT]'1    ( 1.$    OI   iDL(111  IN01.95
DEiLE  1Fh~1147lI   DII T01:14   V11(1 CLF(   COiIb-TF RI ES.  H-lW11  VE1< R,  TN HE' ElAEIlli01 711  TbIF   11<1114 S                         IIA     , CR1;.-I-NIT 1iN61,   CONJ'F<A.9 /1]          IlilIIJI It BK APRAF[ 11FF(Iii  I'      J TIFA
ACCURAC(l(Y   UP   Til   LIATA1.  IBF]OLjF-INLI11((,liUCb-  1410A  ARE1  1110.0   14-I Rb-LOT   INl  ;-04.,Ri.- F-~If C1-                                 1,  A-I   IFi F THE   BAN     15  WII.,1111b-'11 I     151911SF   1 iln
1'1O11RES(;IVEL Y  ON EFI l-I   0C( AI7;11     01~  11.-!  DF11911  rFNl.  19fFkK.  lTI   1111.  1LJ!I7  CII  1THE (i    4111.  TilE  F-(iLl 113 IlKi                           0A191    ICAI 1   I ONI, 1-IIFIII I  III  1'iiib-]    I N
'11  'L['11AT I(ON'  A1., [9171-14N1D 14  TIlE  T111.1.  INC1. Di  1; 611  FI'EDUEATTEIF-  1141J TI:IININI(),  F(11<111   F-NI'  N1O1  fi 111.411
27(  '1( I1( MAYELICi01T   (I    i  F-ELI         3  11(1   1(   DUCA[7T1F- LON    11T  T 1HEF 1:R1   L I '3 11.  641!       (-11:1411A4Y   111191 Al LON4  b-'i] 1 RIl   IO  ii  11   1<D911k:AT11999   'b-T  I wIT  ],i I.9'II'-Y
LAVEOL. REbARDL1Ib-11   OF- 19YF]  (1 ,b-i   OI-LFIL,  TE.IIEiOAL, .  111' 11L1L0U(11.1    I
DD11111T 111 UL   IIA     ANY   041114    4FiM        EF 11  11T     ElF 0 1 .011-1 :611'AT   bIl   4114E:E     FILlA(1019   CION;2 ;;11TE           4%T  Y
'4) ' Pb-'11111   F XIE7N[I I111RFF   IN)  LIECIT7O1 1(1             CIJLI6  4  6419  5)1 R F-LI IF--l   TO1  61.1           & 11111     lb-Il  b-I: 7Ib-:FF HIT  F.11   411 M, T]UIb' ].  '1E 1'i;fl, I  11- 11E911061:'  I u1   II
F'IBLA(   AN1D  QUASTi-1' BIFB1. 17  611EN(71F-
(11I '1 44R11.INM-41   RAI I(1TS  (E7C,LE]  7~   TI1   ANO  1 4)  RF-lb-b-     1)11 l1:b-I1tItI   Y1:6R  A N'II, t bIEN  Till]  [IC RI E 06111 A                  II OF   F    (-i 'vbI E   IIIH  1 1<1RE    14E9-19; [I- II i It -Ti  Ib-b-
14  I1I1E  AF'P411Pl; AT1. SCHOO11L.,  FIUEL TI:  A61'  1400611   BY   1131;FI . iHEY   Alt1  CJF 114 N                                   9P111,IIT   TOI  A  WI LE. 4191<016   ('1           110-19    IP l' II 1111  EL     (F ' I III,
C1D1 'TR1 111       WI 1(441   TII  V61A 110FFO   IN   Tb-IF   ACCURIF-ACY   ('.9'  BA101C  01TA1 .1 ,1                Fili-SPIF'1         IE  FEFEOP ILT  11 11ON     'E  N1A.b-IF-I   1  117'     949:11.10141   F  IQIP
b-REQUEFNTLY7  All]  4H111H11   1414   THEl  NU14 F11                 [I: 111  1(TiIT'b.1I   ArT1ALI-Y   IN          I,I:1-l101  ,  1111 1111-11    FiUHU11].1117     IN] LII; - III I 1 411 N,(ill   I Ill
PID(1,11')1IM    Il-Ei  CF-N  1111-0611   1991   F-Il(IC,



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Third Education Project
Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student-/
Project Institutions
Gross Area/2        Buildings and
Project Item                    Per Student-           Site Works       Furniture       Equipment      Total
m2              ---------------------- US$ ------------------------
Commercial school and
technical institute:
Academic and communal             6.2                  3,920             330            840         5,090
Boarding                         10.1                 6,250              390             -          6,640
Primary teacher training
institute (Seiyun):
Academic and communal             4.6                 4,110              300            290         4,700
Boarding                         10.4                 9,120              690             -          9,810
Staff housing                    96.0                82,320               -              -         82,320
/L Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
/2 Excluding covered galleries; the cost of these areas is included in the unit
capital cost figures.
icA M



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Third Education Project
Contingency Allowances
Technical Assistance
Civil Works         Furniture         Equipment         Specialists        Fellowships        Total Project Cost
Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Total
Contingencies (as % of
project cost):
Physical                       10.0    10.0       10.0    10.0       10.0    10.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
Price increase  1/            48.2    22.0       24.1    24.1       24.1    24.1       16.8    16.8       16.8    16.8
Project cost (without
contingencies);
Millions YD                     1.9      1.7       0.0     0.3       0.1      0.4       0.1      0.2       0.0      0.2       2.1      2.8       4.9
Millions US$                    5.5     4.8        0.1     0.8       0.2      1.3       0.1      0.7       0.2      0.5       6.1      8.1      14.2
Z foreign exchange                     46.0               90.0               90.0               80.0               80.0               56.8
Contingencies (amounts): 2/
Physical
Millions YD                   0.2     0.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.2      0.3       0.5
Millions US$                  0.6     0.5       0.0      0.1       0.0      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.6      0.7       1.3
Price increase
Millions YD                   1.1     0.3        0.0     0.1       0.0      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.1       1.1      0.6       1.7
Millions US$                  3.0      1.2       0.0     0.2       0.0      0.4       0.1      0.1       0.0      0.1       3.1      2.0       5.1
Subtotal
Millions YD                   1.3     0.5        0.0     0.1       0.0      0.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.1       1.3      0n9       797
Millions US$                  3.6      1.7       0.0     0.3       0.0      0.5       0.1      0.1       0.0      0.1       3.7      2.7       6.4
% foreign exchange                     32.2               90.0               90.0               80.0               80.0               42.5
Total project cost
(including contingencies):
Millions YD                     3.2      2.2       0.0      0.4       0.1     0.6       0.1      0.2       0.0      0.3       3.4      3.7        7.1
Millions US$                    9.1      6.5       0.1      1.1       0.2      1.8      0.2      0.8       0.2      0.6       9.8    10.8       20.6
% foreign exchange                     41.4               90.0               90.0               80.0               80.0               52.3 3                    D
w X
1/ Price increases computed on basis of (I) separate annual increase rates for local and foreign exchange costs;
(2) Division estimates of foreign exchange increase rates for equipment and furniture;
(3) project completion 12/1986 (4.5 years from credit signing);
(4) estimated progress of work per year;
(5) baseline cost plus the physical contingency; and
(6) following yearly percentages;
1982              1983                1984               1985               1986
Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign
Civil works                 16.0     8.5       15.0     7.5       15.0      7.5     14.0       7.5      13.0      6.0
Furniture                   10.0    10.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0        8.0     8.0
Equipment                   10.0    10.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0        8.0     8.0
Technical assistance         8.0     8.0        7.0     7.0        7.0     7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0      7.0
2/ Total contingencies as % of project cost without contingencies - 45.1%.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Ministry of Education: Commercial School/Technical Institute, Agricultural Technical Institute, Inservice Teacher Upgrading Center
1981                 1982                  1983                 1984                  1985                  1986                  1987
1    2    3   4    1    2                            3    4    1   2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4             1  2    3    4
Design and Construction:                    _
Site Selection, Survey                     _    _
Preliminary Drawings
Design Development Drawings
Bid Documents
Advertise and Issue Documents
Receive, Analyze Bids, Contract Awards
Construction                                                                                    - -          -    -    -    -    -    -    -
Gtiarantee Period
Equipment and Furniture:
Preliminary Lists                                                                                                   III
Final Lists
Specifications and Cost Estimates
Bid Documents
Advertise, Analy7e Bids, Awards
Maniufacture, Deliver and Install                                                                                 *
t echnical Assistance:                                          I                            -
Exaperts                                                          I
Fellowships                                                        I    =             =  -    _ -  -                                  _ -   -  -  -  m  -             m0
_~~~~~ _                                                                                                                                                              I  -____                I'_1
* IDA Review and Approval                        Negotiations_ -  i                                                                                                 Closing Date |
Board
World Bank-23407



PEOPLE'S DEIM/OCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Ministry of Education: Primary Teacher Training Institute
1981                1982                 1983                 1984                1985                 1986                 1987
1    2   3   4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3   4    1   2    3    4    1    2   3   _4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
Design and Construction:
Site Selection, Survey                   _
Preliminary Drawings                           -
Design Development Drawings
Bid Documents
Advertise and Issue Documents                                I               _
Receive, Analyze Bids, Contract Awards                       I                               _
Construction                                                 I                                              -           _-_
Guarantee Period                               .
Equipment and Furniture:
Preliminary Lists
Final Lists
Bid Documents                                                I
Advertise, Analyze Bids, Awards
Manufacture, Deliver and Install                                                                                 -
Technical Assistance:I
Expers rts
Fellowships                                                                                                                                                                                       f 
*  IDA Review and Approval                      Negotiations-..]                                                                                                 Closing Date-0-1
Board ---
World Bank   23406



- 34 -
PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                              Annex 1
Third  Education Project
Techaical Assistance
Experts                                       Fellowships
Type of Technical Assistance               Man/Months    Total        Beginning            Man/Months    Total        Beginning
Required                 Number      Each      Man/Months       Date    Number       Each      Man/Months    Date
Financed from cther sources
Experts:
Inservice teacher
trailling curriculuim      2        12            24           06/82
Vocational training;
Commerce                    1        12           12           04/85
Agriculture                 1        12           12           04/85
Fellowships:
Directors of teacher
training institutions                                                      2        9             18           07/85
EducatiorLal plarining
and statistics                                                             6       12             72           06/82
Commercial department
heads                                                                      2       12-24          24-48        06/84
AgricultLLral department
heads                      _                      _                        3       12-24          36-72        06/84
Subtotal                     4                      48                      13                     150-210
Financed from the IDA Credit
Studies:
School irnventory:
Experts                    2         8            16           01/83
Fellowships                                                                1       12             12           01/83
Manpower survey:
Experts                    3         8            24           01/83
Fellowships                _                      _                        3       18             54           01/83
Subtotal                      5                     40                       4                      66
Tracer System                                                                    1        2             2            01/84
administtrationi
PIU adminis:rative travel                                                        2        2             4
Subtotal                      5                     40                        7                     72
Total                         9                     88                       20                    222-282
Note: this schedule is intended to De suggestive ratner tnan prescriptive.



-35 -                        Annex I
Schedule 3
PEQPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Third  Education Projezt
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Calendar          Fiscal                                                        Undisbursed
Year and         Year and         DisbursementS          Disbursements            Balance
  Semester         Semester         Amount      %          Amount      %          Amount   %
(US$m)                (US$m)                 (IJS$m)
6.0    100.0
1982             1983
2                1             0.2       3.3          0.2       3.3         5.8     96.7
1983
1                2             0.3       5.0          0.5       8.3         5.5     91.7
1984
2                1             0.6      10.0          1.1      18.3         4.9     81.7
1984
1                2             0.9      15.0          2.0      33.3         4.0     66.7
1985
2                1             1.0      16.7          3.0      50.0         3.0     50.0
1985
1                2             1.1      18.3          4.1      68.3         1.9     31.7
19S6
2                1             1.0      16.7          5.1      85.0         0.9     15.0
1986
1                2             0.7      11.7          5.8      96.7         0.2      3.3
1987
2                1             0.1       1.7          5.9      98.4         0.1      1.6
1987
1                2             0.1       1.6          6.0    100.0          0.0      0.0



- 36 -                          Annex 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Third Education Project
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to Education
Report and recommendations of the Second Education Conference,
September 7-10, 1979.
The World Bank, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, A Review
of Economic and Social Development, March 1979.
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Ministry of Planning,
Statistical Yearbook, 1980.
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, The Second Five-Year Plan
(1981-1985) (translated excerpts).
B.   Reports and Studies  Relating to the Project
Reconnaissance mission, April/May 1980, Working Notes.
Preparation mission, September/October 1980, Working Notes II.
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project
Preliminary working papers, November 1980.
Draft working papers, September 1981.
Final working papers, March 1982.



T t1 H h I Y     4 5at;> ~ \   tJ S i      |  4 8  4 8'            5(0                                52'
V-                       HAN                                      PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF  YEMEN                                                                                                                20
,,IITII< ./LvTHIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SAIID ARABIA '
z     ',2tN 2.SXv AWAg/^td ggX                0              50             100             150                                P
a  A  U,'AT2'                                                      MILES    I              I
01       50       100        15U       200       250
I         I 
flA>,o MB                                             - ---Shiha \
Ch,'                          ~       2         \/                                                            /                                                                           art
\Ph-mud                                          If
08ir Tm         /              */
ARAB                                          /  ,'                                                                    6                   ,
0/0!Abr \<' G\Nam) I                                                                        I Gh.ydoh
I))',j            1          REPUBLIC                           I                 Al CAITbror                                                                         I Ab                                     ' -
<   (v/   t                                          y                            . - "~~~~ -i  151 Siion ,rSh5., ,I|
1   , \\   n   /   Mar b  /   /   *  Haura      Q.shn
i\ N 3     \              ,_gSANAA                     \       /                 /(Osoubmoh                 I                A                                 L    yN Say0
I4 / ~               (                      (     e 3           /         4                    4' S g f         h a lX tS A  Hilbs
fHodelda   \   Al Ayn-<) jB  \                                 A                                                     COMMERCIAL SCHOOL AND TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
.ode,d~                    'H/ha                           Nb    O                                                   hAtch lir                               P        RIMARY   TEACHER THAINING INSTITUTE
2-1   )   ,)   ,)  )        '-      -; 6              4'              /  ~rr iyan                                       AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
-14  zz/ vukayraS  Al  Mrlt// J                                   2      INSERVICE TEACHER UPGRADING CENTER
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  k a y rcis                                                                                                                                       14'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
,Mokyds        0d    4d 0                             B                                                       o    NATIONAL CAPITALS AND OTIIER ClIIES
0    LuwdOr                                      t  l
Dh I  -      o    q am Ayrb I                                                                                                  PRIMARY ROADS
0  d  Nuqeoel Al Kolla---      TRACKS
,> {_ humairp . ., o~~~~~~Al Qarah           /             Awar    PCl
Tz    OMUS m,r                --            '                                                                                           AGRICULTURAL AREAS
D   ,.               Macho           KEh Taizon Alk 1us I      huqroh                                                                                              5-         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
r  3 i XAIbaha Al Fagdnitbo8   (     / l  / /F-  (/!/    / iMj s    \/                                     -- *- *  INTERNATIONAL BOLJNDARIES 
al,oho                    ADEN           46                                 4                                     SO                                                                             0-
To   ~~~~      I-'                            AGEN ~~~~4-46T                                     48'                                  50'                                                                              p.),



