OpFICIAL      CREDIT NUER 1222 YDR
DOCUIENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
betveen
PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           '?.2'              , 1982, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Project Unit" means the Project Implementation Unit
of the Borrower's Ministry of Education established pursuant to
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement (Education
Project) dated July 12, 1974 between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE Ii
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services


﻿-2-
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4 02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1992, and ending December 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-3-
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpooe.
(b) The Borrower shall until the completion of the Project:
(i) maintain the Project Unit in existence, with appropriate
powers as required to enable the Project Unit to carry out its
responsibilities for the execution of the Project; and (ii)
provide such unit, promptly as needed, with such facilities,
funds, resources and qualified and experienced staff as shall be
required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms. and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in
accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported .goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Education to furnish, not later than 18 months prior to the
scheduled opening of the institutions to be established under
Part A of the Project, to the Association for review the proposed
programs of instructor training for the commercial technical


﻿-5-
institute in Khormaksar and the agricultural technical institute
in Saber.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Education:
(a) to establish, not later than March 31, 1984, an evalua-
tion committee in order to review the effectiveness of the two
mobile school building maintenance units provided under Part C of
the Project during the first year of their operations;
(b) to report to the Association within six months follow-
ing the first year of operations of these units the results of
the evaluation for its review and comments; and
(c) to implement the recommendations contained in the
report and approved by the Association according to a timetable
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause its Ministry
of Labor and Ministry of Education to carry out the studies under
Part D of the Project and scheduled to commence not .ater than
January 1, 1983, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, not later than six
months after their completion, the results thereof and exchange
views with the Association thereon; and (iii) shall thereafter
take such measures as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree are appropriate on the basis of such studies.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than three months prior
to the scheduled commencement of the studies, appoint qualified
counterparts to work with the consultants employed under Section
3.02 of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall award the fellowships in connection
with the carrying out of the studies referred to in Part D of the
Project to suitably qualified candidates in accordance with
criteria for selection and award acceptable to the Association,
after approval by the Association of the training programs
proposed under said fellowships.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Education:


﻿-6-
(a)  to maintain adequate consultation with local and other
interested parties to ensure the continued relevance of the
curricula of the institutions to be established under Part A of
the Project to their needs;
(b)   to utilize the evaluation mechanisms (including the
tracer system) established pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of the
Development Credit Agreement (Second Education Project), dated
December 22, 1978, between the Borrower and the Association, in
order to ensure the relevancy of the curricula of the institu-
tions to be established under Part A of the Project to the needs
of the related economic sectors and to monitor the employment
opportunities available for the students of such institutions;
and
(c)   to provide the Association, during the five years
immediately following the first graduation of students from such
institutions with annual reports on the results of said evalua-
tion system and tracer studies.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit
to maintain a separate Project account adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the Project Unit and of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to: (i) have
the Project account referred to in sub-section (a) above for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said account and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-7-
Secticn 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each of the technical
and teacher training institutions established or expanded under
the Project to carry out its operations and manage its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and
educational policies and practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings,
furniture and equipment of the technical and teacher training
institutions established or expanded under the Project to be
adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof to be made; and (ii) establish appropriate
administrative and financial procedures for the purpose of such
maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall provide suitably trained
teachers and administrators in adequate numbers and' on a full-
time basis for each of the institutions established or expanded
under the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date Aiot 2. t( , i'-           , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Education of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Education
Madinat Ash-Shaab
P.O. Box 7042
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
TARBIYAH
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B fX   Regional Vice President
Europe, Midle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out J,pf the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil works              1,500,000             17%
(2) Equipment and            1,900,000             100% of foreign
furniture                                     expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory and
85% of local
expenditures
for items
procu red
locally off-
the-shelf
(3) Consultants'               400,000             100%
services, fellow-
ships and tech-
nical assistance
(4) Unallocated              1,500,000
TOTAL    5,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's


﻿- 11 -
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand and improve the Borrower's
technical and vocational education system and its preservice and
inservice teacher training programs. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Technical and Vocational Education
The. construction, furnishing and equipping of the following
institutions:
1.   a commercial technical institute at Khormaksar compris-
ing two sections: a two-year vocational school with a
capacity of about 300 places and a five-year technician
institute with a capacity of about 450 places. The
vocational school will prepare students in bookkeeping
and secretarial skills; the technical institute will
prepare   students  in   accountancy  and   secretarial
practice; and
2.   an agricultural technical institute at Saber with a
capacity of about 450 places. The five-year program
will offer specialization in agronomy, horticulture and
animal production.
Part B:   Teacher Training
1.   The extension and renovation of existing facilities of
the Inservice Teacher Upgrading Center at Aden in order
to provide inservice and preservice teacher training
with a capacity of about 630 places.
2.   The construction, furnishing and equipping of a primary
teacher training institute at Seiyun with a capacity of
about 590 places.
Part C:   School Maintenance
The provision of two mobile building maintenance units.


﻿- 13 -
Part D:   Studies
1.   A manpower planning study; and
2.   a  school inventory survey quantifying the priority
needs for furniture and equipment in schools.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training
The strengthening of the Borrower's project preparation and
implementation capability through the provision of about 7 man-
years of specialist services and about 23 man-years of fellow-
ships.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
Contracts for goods and civil works shall be grouped in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association so as to encourage
competition and, with respect to contracts for goods, to permit
bulk procurement consistent with appropriate technical and pro-
curement practices.
B.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.    Bidders for the civil works included in the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿- 15 -
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part B of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in the People's Democratic of Republic of Yemen may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value
added il People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and


﻿-16 -
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods: (i) which cannot be grouped pursuant to Part A above
and which are estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
US$100,000 each; or (ii) which the Association agrees are of a
specialized nature, may be procured in accordance with such
procurement procedures of the Borrower as are satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however, that, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, contracts for goods to be entered into unde!r
this paragraph   shall: (A) be    awarded   only  after  obtaining
quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers of such
goods; and (B) not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
US$300,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿- 17 -
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract ghall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with      the analysis of the
respective bids or price quotations as the case may be, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contr:t, or


﻿- 18 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   92_E_    day of          ,
198 i.
FOR SECRETARY


