Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23867-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING NETWORK PROJECT (LIL)
June 19, 2002
Hutman Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 = US$ 0.0001
US$ 1 = Rp 9,000
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPKP                 Financial and Development Supervisory Board
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CLR                  Center for Learning Resources
CPCU                 Central Project Coordination Unit of DUE and QUE
CPIU                 Central Project Implementation Unit
DGHE                 Directorate General of Higher Education
DLC(s)               Distance Learning Center(s)
DUE/QUE              Development of Undergraduate Education/Quality of Undergraduate Education
EAP                  East Asia Pacific
EAPA                 East Asia Pacific Association
FMR                  Financial Management Report
GDLN                 Global Development Learning Network
Gol                  Government of Indonesia
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IT                  Infonnation Technology
ISG                  Information Solutions Group
LAC                  Latin America and Caribbean
LIL                  Learning and Innovation Loan
KPKN                 Ministry of Finance Treasury Office
MENA                 Middle East and North Africa
MoNE                 Ministry of National Education
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NGO(s)               Non-Government Organization(s)
PAR                  Procurement Assessment Review
PMM                  Project Management Manual
UI                   University of Indonesia
Unhas                Hasanuddin University
Unri                 University of Riau
Unud                 Udayana University
WBI                  World Bank Institute
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:  Mark Baird
Sector Director:  Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader:   Jerry Strudwick



INDONESIA
GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING NETWORK PROJECT (LIL)
CONTENTS
A. LIL Justification                                                                                        Page
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)? ................................................................... .  3
2.  How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on                        3
operation)?
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................  3
B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will the learning take place? .......................................................................  4
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted .......................................................................   4
3.  Steps Involved in Implementing the Pilot .......................................................................   4
4.  Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot ..........................................................5 
5. Triggers for a Follow-on Operation .......................................................................  6
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .....................................................  6
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1. Project components ............................................,                                        7
2. Implementation arrangements ..................................................................           8
a. Procurement ..................................................................                       8
b. Financial Management .................................................................               8
c. Other ........                                                                                      9
D. Risks
1.  Social and Environmental Risks .....................................................................   9
a. Safeguard Policies .....................................................................             9
b. Other social risks .....................................................................             9
2. Other Risks .....................................................................                       10
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..................................................................... I 
2. Other .....................1 I I
F. Readiness for Implementation ...........................         .    .    .    .   .     .   . 12
G. Compliance with Bank Policies ...................................................................           12
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary. .14
Annex 2. Project Description ............17...........                                                    l       7
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .20
Annex 4. Financial Management .21
Annex 5. Project Processing Schedule .30
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .31
Annex 7. Documents in the Project File .44
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .45
Annex 9. Country at a Glance ..............                                    ...                             47



MAP(S)
IBRD 31391



INDONESIA
Global Development Learning Network Project (LIL)
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASHD
Date: June 19, 2002                              Team Leader: Jerry G. Strudwick
Comntry Manager/Director: Mark Baird             Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Prc.ject ID: P073970                             Sector(s): ED - Distance Education/Education Technology
Lexiding Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
jj9Pinancing Data,                                       _ t
[XI Loan     [ ] Credit   [ Grant      [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $2.66
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: N Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75% p.a.                     Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Maintain as Variable
Type of repayment schedule:
[)C Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
[ ]. Linked to Disbursement
Fn 6ncing Pan(US$m):- 1_. ,I Source  7                 '--..                         -j-:-'.tal.
BO]ZROWER                                                     0.98           0.00          0.98
IBRD                                                          1.52           1.14          2.66
Total:                                                        2.50           1.14          3.64
Boi,rower: REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Responsible agency: DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HIGHER EDUCATION, MONE
Directorate General of Higher Education
Ministry of National Education (MoNE)
Adihress: Jl. Jend. Sudirman, Senayan Higher Education Bldg. 2nd Fl.
Jakirta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Dr. Satryo S. Brodjonegoro, Dir. General, Higher Education; Department of National Education,
Republic of Indonesia
Tel 6221-573-1618            Fax: 6221-573-6870            Email: satriolindo.net.id
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
!iFY           003.      2004-     2005      2006- r     . . l;       .. J.
Annual      1.32      0.47      0.45       0.42
Cumulative     1.32      1.79       2.24      2.66
Project Implementation period: FY 03 - FY 06
Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2006
OQ PM. F  :FJ-  -h MO



Project implementation period: FY 03 - FY 06
[Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2006
OMS PA.D Fpm P_ .. U  Z2
-2 -



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
The project will test the potential effectiveness and sustainability of the Global Development
Learning Network (GDLN) in Indonesia. Through a variety of distance leaming and state-of-the-art
communications technologies, the project will expand access to development management information,
strengthen the capacity of key-decision makers in both the public and private sectors, and improve levels of
regional dialogue on policy-related issues. The project will also develop appropriate technologies to link
the Jakarta-based GDLN center to three regional university centers, representing the western, central and
eastem regions. This, in tum, magnifies the potential impact of the GDLN as a dynamic, potentially low
cost development tool and it provides an effective platform for regional distance learning and information
exchange between key Indonesian institutions and the regional and global networks of GDLN.
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Document number: 21580-IND        Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/20/2001
The joint IBRD/IFC/IDA 2001 CAS supports efforts to reduce poverty and vulnerability in a more
democratic and decentralized environment. It articulates a strategy that specifically focuses on: (a)
sustaining economic recovery and promoting broad-based growth; (b) building national institutions for
accountable govemment; and (c) delivering better public services to the poor. The proposed project will be
an important instrument in the realization of these objectives as it will directly contribute to improving
development knowledge in both the public and private sectors. In addition, it will contribute to: (a)
improving skill levels in the public service and other segments of society; (b) increasing knowledge sharing
within Indonesia and intemationally; and (c) developing consensus and national/regional dialogue. It is
anticipated that the outcome of the LIL will be the basis for GDLN replication to additional universities
within Indonesia. The follow-on operation may be financed through future Bank lending or bilateral grants.
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
The GDLN was launched by the Bank, as a unique partnership of public, private, and
non-governmental organizations, to build a virtual global community and to provide cost-effective leaming
opportunities for key stakeholders in the development process, in order to close the knowledge gap between
developed and developing countries as new countries join the network. Currently, Distance Learning
Centers (DLCs) are fully operational in Africa, LAC, MENA, EAP, and Europe. By 2004, the plan is to
have almost all EAP countries host at least one GDLN center (DLC). An intemal Bank evaluation study
conducted by WBI indicates that the GDLN operation has: (a) improved decision making through
interactive leaming linked to real-life experience and action; (b) increased country-to-country exchanges
that support capacity building and knowledge sharing among development stakeholders; (c) strengthened a
partnership that builds on the strengths of many organizations to ensure sustainable and substantial
long-term impact; and (d) provided cost-effective course delivery to participants throughout the world.
- 3 -



B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
Given the competitive realities in a decentralized global economy, Indonesia must optimize its
ability to compete in the global market and good telecommunications ensure a broader array of choices and
opportunities. Through the project, the Government will test the use of state-of-the-art technologies to
provide broad access to global knowledge and experience in priority areas of modem economics, finance
and development management. Associated with these priorities, the project will also use appropriate
technologies to distribute high quality university programming to regional universities. These technologies
are proven and are widely used in many other countries. The issue, therefore, is not the viability of the new
distance learning technologies and the applied pedagogy, but rather, the potential for their widespread
sustainable use in the Indonesian context.
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
With the establishment of the main GDLN center in Jakarta and three sub-centers in regional
universities, the project will seek to demonstrate the potential of GDLN learning technologies in Indonesia.
If successful, consideration may be given to the extension of all or part of these technologies to other
institutions and regional universities. (There may be as many as 50 appropriate sites across the country.)
Three lessons already learned in a non-GDLN context on Indonesia are: that in-country training is
cost-effective; that training technology should be flexible enough to respond to the leaming context, and to
varying levels of supply and demand for training; and that a pipeline of relevant courses must be developed
in advance to respond to demand and to facilitate marketing. The project will need to assess in the GDLN
context: (a) the demand for GDLN services; (b) the Indonesia GDLN system's ability to respond to this
demand; (c) the costs at which demand can be met; (d) the sustainability of GDLN service provision and
the provision of higher education through this medium - i.e. the ability of the service providers to meet their
costs; and (e) the availability of appropriate content.
Through the four GDLN DLCs, key decision-makers, academics, students and other interested
participants will gain access to current information on development management, economics, finance,
health issues, etc., and to quality formal higher education. By studying how this access is utilized the
project will assess the value of GDLN-based distance learning as a tool for the development of national
dialogue, consensus, partnerships and of a better informed population.
3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
As preparation for the LIL, the Bank has:
*   assessed government commitrnent and capacity to implement the LIL;
* provided specifications for facility establishment and information on procurement options;
* carried out wide intemal Bank review and consultation;
* carried out technical review and consultation;
* reviewed lessons learned from similar projects funded by the Bank in other regions; and
* assessed the implementing agency's viability to implement the project through their long term business
plan.
With technical inputs from the Bank, the Government has prepared:
* a GDLN proposal that incorporates project design;
- 4-



*   identified key staff and proposed a project implementation team; and
*   a draft project management manual (PMM). [In its final form the PMM will include specific
outcomes, milestones and timing for major GDLN activities.]
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
1 Economic     (I Technical    ] Social      1 Participation
3 Financial    1 Institutional  L] Environmental L] Other
[X] Economic: The economic viability of distance leaming as a tool for capacity building in the context of
Indonesia and the region has beeri established. It is expected that the project will demonstrate an effective
method of delivering high quality: training to replace or supplement high-cost, low-impact training
scholarships, study tours and the import of trainers. By project closing, it is expected that the Government
will establish a distance learning capacity that will reduce the requirement for investments in overseas
training and provide cost-effective opportunities for decision-makers to interact with their global and
regional counterparts. It is expected that this will result in improved decision-making and, perhaps, policy
reform.
[X] Financial: Financial viability hinges on market development and cost recovery. Cost recovery, in turn,
depends on the availability of government and private sector resources to purchase GDLN DLC products,
the quality and availability of relevant products (content), and the development of effective partnerships. A
successful cost-recovery strategy requires that significant work is undertaken up-front, on the analysis and
marketing of GDLN products and learning programs; an assessment of training demand and willingness
and ability to pay for training by identified clients; pricing policy; and the preparation of a medium term
GDLN financing plan. The project will finance a decreasing share of GDLN DLC operating costs during
the first four years of implementation [at 100% (of which 70% is Bank financed and 30% Gol financed),
75% (50% Bank and 25% Gol) and 50% (35% Bank and 15% Gol) respectively] to allow for gradual
market development and the establishment of effective management and procedures. The DLCs are
expected to be financially self-sustaining by their fourth year of operation, by generating enough revenue,
through a combination of participant fees and facilities charges to cover operating costs and equipment
replacement. Financial simulations determined that the financial break-even point will be achieved when
the average facility utilization rate reaches 60%.
[X] Technical: The project will introduce state-of-the-art information technologies. The GDLN center in
Jakarta will have facilities and equipment to support global and regional interactive video-conferencing and
broadcast mode television reception and transmission, simultaneous translation, interactive computer-based
learning and Internet technologies. The three sub-centers will each be equipped with a single distance
learning classroom, regional interactive video-conferencing and broadcast mode television reception and
transmission, interactive computer-based learning and Internet technologies.
Initial technical training for the IT staff at all four DLCs will be provided under the supervision of the
Bank's Information Solutions Group (ISG). ISG will also provide ongoing technical support for the
duration of the project on an as required basis. ISG staff at WBOJ will also be available for occasional
support. Additional on-site training will be arranged through a neighboring GDLN center. Future
equipment upgrading would, to the extent possible, seek compatibility with domestic and Bank
communication systems. Pass-through equipment warranties (both local and international) and
replacement/upgrade contingencies are included in the project. Equipment maintenance will be provided by
qualified suppliers in Indonesia.
[X] Institutional: The Jakarta GDLN center will be established at the University of Indonesia's (UI)
-5-



Salemba campus. GDLN sub-centers will be established at Hasanuddin Universitas in Makassar,
Universitas Riau in Pekanbaru, and Udayana Universitas in Denpasar. The project will be managed by the
Central Project Implementation Unit (CPI[) of the ongoing DUE and QUE higher education projects
(Development of Undergraduate Education, IBRD 4043-IND and the Quality Undergraduate Education,
IBRD 4193-IND). It is intended that a close partnership will be established between the four GDLN
universities, other public and private universities, academic groups, donors, civil society organizations, as
well as with domestic, regional and intemational networks.
[   ] Environmental:  Environmental Category: C  Refurbishment activities will not involve land
acquisition or resettlement. The Government will be asked to present, for the Bank's review, a plan for the
refurbishing of physical facilities at the GDLN Center and Sub-Centers, including the timing of
construction and its linkage to equipment procurement.
[X1 Participation: DGHE has received significant input from representatives of the public and private
sectors, business and academic communities, civil society and donors. The project is expected to increase
policy dialogue through the extension of opportunities for government officials, private sector professionals
and civil society to participate and contribute to the development of the country. In addition, it is expected
that the quality of policy dialogue will be enhanced by the global nature of the GDLN facilitating
regional/international consultation and the sharing of experiences. Annual project review meetings will
contain representatives from the academic community, the Bank, civil society and the public and private
sector.
5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
*   Well managed DLCs and successful completion of the LIL;
*   DLCs achieving an acceptable level of cost recovery and becoming self financed as planned;
*   Market demand for additional services;
*   Access to a pool of affordable relevant content;
*   Appropriate cost effective technologies for additional sub-centers; and
*   Government commitment and donor support for follow-on operations.
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
The GDLN operation in Indonesia will be overseen by the Directorate General of Higher Education
(DGHE), Ministry of National Education (MoNE). The DG, DGHE will chair a GDLN Advisory Board
that will meet twice a year to evaluate project progress and the operations of the Indonesia GDLN. The
Advisory Board comprises key stakeholders, (i.e. respective Rectors, relevant public/private enterprises,
non governmental organizations, international organizations, and other donor agencies). The Board will
also provide guidance to enhance the effectiveness of the GDLN operation.
Each DLC will develop a business plan which will be updated annually and submitted toDGHE
and the Bank for review. These plans will include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training
and other services to be provided (lectures, semninars, other), source and programming of training, rates for
different types of training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and
marketing strategy.
Each DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to CPIU within 30 days of the end of each
quarter. Subsequently, CPIU will submit an implementation report to the Bank each quarter. This report
will provide information on the DLCs' operations and progress in implementing their business plans. The
- 6-



report will also highlight problems encountered and include updated performance indicators. Regular
project reviews will be conducted by the Bank. At project completion, a detailed evaluation report will be
prepared to reflect the Government's viewpoint on both implementation and effectiveness of the LIL.
C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
The project comprises two main components:
1. Establishing, retrofitting and equipping the main GDLN center and the three sub-centers; and
2. Supporting GDLN operations on a decreasing basis over the project's four year implementation period.
Component 1 - Establishing, retrofitting and equipping: the main GDLN center at UI's Salemba campus
(a section of a new building will be committed to GDLN) and the three selected sub-centers at the
Universities of Hasanuddin (in Makassar), Riau (in Pekanbaru) and Udayana (in Denpasar).
The mam GDLN center at UTI will be retrofitted and equipped to include two technology-based
classrooms (synchronous and asynchronous) connected to GDLN Washington through two-way multimedia
facilities for video, data, and voice exchange. The Synchronous Classroom wiU enable video-conferencing
with real-time (synchronous) video interaction between local course participants, remote course instructors
and other international participants, and will also include facilities for simultaneous interpretation.
Participants will have access to a computer screen sharing facility (T. 120 Standard) which can be used to
support synchronous learning. The Asynchronous Room will be used for asynchronous course delivery,
which is Internet based. This method will be fully independent of the local infrastructure, and is proven to
be time-flexible and efficient. Both classrooms will be outfitted with 30 computer stations, (which includes
hardware, software, pedagogical tools, internet hook-up, and the installation and/or upgrading of electrical
and telephone wiring). The Jakarta GDLN center will also include a reception area, offices, and support
facilities for DLC staff.
The three sub-centers will be retrofitted and partially equipped to include one multimedia
classroom. Each sub-center will combine the asynchronous and synchronous functions into a single
classroom, which will provide pedagogical tools for 15 participants. The rooms will be retrofitted to
accommodate the required wiring for computer networking, support clean power delivery, and to enable a
high quality video-conferencing. The delivery speed and all synchronous features will be identical to that of
the main center in Jakarta (with the exception of reduced access speed for asynchronous course
development, as the asynchronous server will be located at UI). However, the multimedia two-way network
program exchange between the sub-centers and the GDLN center will be based on IP protocol (technology),
which will significantly reduce the up-front investment costs. To ensure long-term sustainability, the
sub-centers will be designed to make optimum use of the existing domestic connectivity and the
communication infrastructure already provided by PT Telkom.
Component 2: Support for center and sub-centers operation.
This component includes (a) financing of operation costs on a decreasing basis (100%; 75%; and
50%) over the four years of implementation; (b) technical assistance for training of DLC staff, periodic
evaluation of their operations and management effectiveness, and establishment of financial accounts and
their annual audit; (c) funds for the sponsoring and development of local course content and partnerships;
- 7 -



and (d) financing of technology review and upgrade.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs-    % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Establishment of GDLN center and                    1.44      39.6      1.30      49.1
three sub-centers
2. Support for center and sub-center                  2.17      59.6       1.32      49.8
operation
Total Project Costs                   3.61      99.2      2.62      98.9
Front-end fee                    0.03       0.8       0.03       1.1
Total Financing Required                     3.64     100.0      2.65     100.0
2. Implementation Arrangements
Project Oversight and Coordination: The DGHE will be responsible for project oversight and
coordination. DGHE and the four DLC Directors will oversee the physical preparation of the GDLN
facilities, coordinate a market analysis/need assessment and the development a business plan for the life of
the project and beyond, and facilitate the monitoring and evaluation process. In addition, regular
supervision activities and biannual meetings will be held. between DGHE, the DLC Directors and the EAP
Regional GDLN team to review the availability and quality of content as well as to discuss the evaluation
of training needs in Indonesia.
Project Implementation: The CPIU will be established in Jakarta and will be staffed with the
necessary core personnel: (i) a director, (ii) a procurement specialist, (iii) a financial management
specialist/treasurer, and (iv) a secretary and will be provided an allocation of project preparation funds
sufficient to effectively implement the project The four DLCs will be staffed by: (i) a director, (ii) a
procurement specialist, (iii) a finaincial management specialist/treasurer, (iv) an information yechnology
and tele communications engineer, (v) a business coordinator, and (vi) a secretary.
The CPIU will coordinate the preparation of the annual work program, monitor progress in project
implementation and compliance with Bank safeguard policies, including preparation of procurement,
performance indicators, physical achievements and expenditures, and preparation and submittal to the Bank
of quarterly progress reports on overall project implementation.
a. Procurement
After obtaining further clarification on possible procurement options, DGHE have elected to use
the system integrator selected by the Bank for equipment and services for pedagogical tools and local
connectivity. This decision by the Govenmment is in part due to the level of complexity required to program
and integrate the local infrastructure, connectivity equipment, and pedagogical tools, which is required to
transform the feed into interactive visual, audio, and data display for instructional purposes. Moreover, the
centralized procurement approach is expected to offer the lowest cost to the Borrower and minimize risks to
the quality of the network communication services provided by the Bank to the GDLN. All other
procurement will be in accordance with the procedures agreed and detailed Annex 6.
b. Financial Management
- 8-



Funds Flow (see Annex 4)
The DLC Directors will be responsible for authorizing all expenditures in accordance with the
agreed budgets under existing government procedures. Each DLC will open a bank account and will make
a six months forecast on fund requirements. These forecasts will be the basis upon which CPIU will
submit payment requests to the relevant MoF Treasury Office (KPKN). They, in turn, will issue payment
remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to the DLCs' accounts and to debit the project Special
Account. Upon effectiveness, the DG Budget will provide guidelines and criteria for eligible project
expenditures, in accordance with the loan agreement.
A Financial Management Assessment for the GDLN Project was completed by a Financial
Management Officer from WBOJ in accordance with Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements
in World Bank-Financed Projects, Guidelines to Staff issued by the Financial Management Sector Board in
June 30, 2001. The Assessment reviewed the operations of the CPIU of the QUE and DUE projects in
DGHE. The assessment of CPIU concluded that the accounting and financial management procedures
employed by CPIU are acceptable to the Bank and are in compliance with the requirements of OP/BP
10.02.
Although CPIU staff are already sufficiently experienced in managing Bank projects, it is expected
that they will require guidelines on their roles and responsibilities in respect to GDLN and that these can be
addressed by the adoption of a Project Management Manual (PMM) which will include (a) I)LC
organization structure and key job descriptions; (b) budgeting processes; (c) procurement agreements and
plans; (d) guidelines for record keeping, preparation of Financial Management Report (FMR) and its use in
disbursement, and financial statements preparation; (e) guidelines for fixed assets management; (f) internal
control, safeguards and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms; and (g) auditing arrangements for the
project. In addition, the PMM will outline a training plan for procurement and financial management
including the preparation of FMR for relevant staff within the CPIU and the DLCs
c. Other
D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
This operation is low risk with respect to safeguard policies and no safeguard policies have
been triggered.
a. Safeguard Policies
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
9-



2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating           RiskiMitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Sustainability. DLCs may not reach a       S        Continual refinement of business plans and
level of cost-recovery that will enable their       marketing strategies by DLCs. DGHE
host institutions to maintain them.                 recognize that the GDLN is untested in an
Indonesian context and that its success will
depend on how well they implement a thorough
marketing strategy. TA may be required to
further develop the DLCs programs to attract
fee-paying participants to GDLN global and
regional offerings as well as to attract additional
students to quality higher education courses.
Availability of quality relevant content   S        (i) WBI courses will be provided for free for the
(courses, teleseminars and policy dialogue          duration of the project. (ii) The GDLN-EAPA
events and higher educatiori courses) -             (East Asia and Pacific Association) will conduct
particularly content offered in Bahasa              a regional needs assessment to ensure relevance
Indonesia.                                          of courses to its local markets. (iii) Facilities
and equipment are included to provide
simultaneous translation. (iv) The GDLN DLCs
will be integrated into existing domestic and
regional distance learning networks.
Gol commitment to train/inform civil      M         (i) Use of broad-based participatory approach to
servants via non-traditional methods, and           develop a business plan and marketing strategy.
willingness of Gol institutions, private            Institutions contributed to the DLCs' business
sector, donors and individuals to                   plans and are canvassed on an on-going basis
participate in and pay for GDLN program             regarding training needs. (ii) Marketing
and course offerings.                               campaigns will be carried out by the
management team of each DLC. (iii) Gol and
university commitment to pay increasing share
of GDLN costs over project period. (iv) DLCs
will be integrated into the university-based
learning network. (v) Resources built into the
Government budget to finance content. (vi) Use
and sponsorship of courses by the donor and
private sector community.
Reliable management of GDLN               M         ISG will assist GDLN DLCs' IT staff with
equipment                                           on-site training and WBOJ will provide
occasional technical support.
From Components to Outputs
Obsolescence of equipment.                M         (i) Funds contained in project to prepare
equipment upgrade plan and contingency for
upgrade. The Bank will provide guidance. (ii)
Technical integration of DLC equipment into
existing domestic and regional networks and
emerging technology infrastructure developed by
PT. Telkom.
-10 -



Equipment operation and maintenance        M         The project will provide intensive training for
technical staff; maintenance will be contracted
to local qualified contractor(s).
Professional competence of GDLN teams      M         (i) Competitively selected, highly-qualified
at each DLC                                          management team, with a proven track record
will be employed. (ii) The project will finance a
two week training package for three persons
from each sub-center and four from the Jakarta
center. The ToR for the training will be
developed by the Bank and IJI, as will minimum
competences of staff to attend the training.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
E. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Revised GDLN Center and Sub-Center business plans agreeable to the Bank.
* PMM agreeable to the Bank.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
1.     The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project a Central Project Implementation Unit
responsible for the implementation of the Project and the coordination of the GDLN Center and GDLN
Sub-Centers, said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by
qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its objectives,
including the following staff. (i) a director; (ii) a procurement specialist, (iii) a financial management
specialist and treasurer, and (iv) a secretary.
2.     The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project a GDLN Center at the University of
Indonesia and GDLN Sub-Centers at the Hasanuddin University in Makassar, the University of Riau in
Pekanbaru and the Udayana University in Denpasar, responsible for the implementation of the Project
activities related to the GDLN Center and the GDLN Sub-Centers at each such university, said GDLN
Center and the GDLN Sub-Centers to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and
staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish
their objectives, including the following staff: (i) a director, (ii) a procurement specialist; (iii) a financial
management specialist and treasurer, (iv) an information technology and telecommunications engineer, (v)
a business coordinator, and (vi) a secretary.
3.     The Borrower shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, the Project
Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include: procurement procedures (including the
supplemental letter on procurement procedures of even date with this Agreement) and standard
documentation as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, reporting requirements and financial
management procedures, including audit procedures, as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement, and the
Project Performance Indicators as set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and shall not amend, delete,
suspend or waive any part of the Project Management Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank.
4.     The Borrower shall cause the Directorate General of Higher Education (i) to prepare a business
plan for the GDLN Center and the GDLN Sub-Centers, such plan to include market data, budget and
sources of financing, services to 'be provided (including training, lectures and seminars), sources of
- 1 1 -



progranrming and training, rates for different types of training, operating accounts and marketing strategy,
and (ii) thereafter, to apply such business plan to the activities of the GDLN Center and the GDLN
Sub-Centers.
5.     The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project
and the achievemnent of the objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about
May 1 in each year, commnencing May 1, 2003, and until completion of the Project, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommnended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)    review with the Bank, by June 1 in each year, commencing June 1, 2003, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, and until completion of the Project, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
F. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O I. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIB
3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
G. Compliance with Bank Policies
l 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recornmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jerry OeBfudwick               Emnanuel Y. imenez              Mark Baird
oe r            k   -Sector Manager                  Country. Manager
-12 -



- 13-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDONESIA: Global Development Learning Network Project (LIL)
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators.                                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Build national institutions  * Skill mix of civil  Surveys to be conducted  Government, private sector
for accountable government  service improves.   annually.                and donors willing to utilize
and enhance consensus and  * Broad participation in                      distance learning in training
support through national!   policy dialogue and                          programs.
regional dialogue.          development.
* Level of consensus and                       Access to knowledge and
partnership building in                      information is applied and
development process                          transformed into better
continues to deepen.                         policies and improved
* Increase in the number                       performance by public,
of distance learning                         private and community
courses offered.                             actors.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Mainstream the use of     * A trend that reflects an  DLC annual reviews and  Adequate supply, quality
distance learning as an    increase number of    Bank supervisions.      and relevance of GDLN
ongoing tool to increase    development focused                          content.
access of public and        GDLN learning
private sector              products subscribed to
professionals to global     by public and private
information and             professionals. Targets:
inforation and             In Yr. 1: 1000
innovations                 person-days of training;
in Yr. 2: 2500; and in
Yr. 3: 3225.
* A trend that shows an
increasing number and
variety of organizations
using the GDLN DLCs.
Project Development     Outcome I Impact         Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Via an expansion of access  * A trend that reflects an  Annual Business Plans  Participants/trainees willing
to development management   increase number of                           and able to pay reasonable
information, the project will  development focused  Attendance reports   fees.
strengthen the capacity of  GDLN learning
key-decision makers in both  products subscribed to  Quarterly and Annual  Wide spread acceptability
the public and private      by public and private  reports.              of distance learning through
sectors, and improve levels  professionals. Targets:                     GDLN facilities.
-14 -



of regional dialogue on    In Yr. 1: 1000       Training program
policy-related issues.     person-days of training; evaluations completed by  Availability of relevant
in Yr. 2: 2500; and in  participants.       courses and convenience of
Additionally, the project  Yr. 3: 3225.                                 scheduling. Course
will provide an effective  * Quality and relevance  Audit reports       offerings in Bahasa
platform for quality       of courses offered by                        Indonesia
distance learning and      the GDLN is evaluated Bank supervisions
information exchange       satisfactory or better by                    GDLN Directors able to
between key Indonesian     a minimum of 80% of                          identify and refine course
institutions and the       participants.                                offerings on the basis of
regional/global network.  * Distance learning                          requests and feedback from
facility utilization rate                   participants.
(60% by year 4).
* 45% of content is                            Reliable network equipment
provided by national                        and professional center
and international                           management
partners by end of year
2. 60% by the end of
year 3.
* A trend that shows an
increasing number and
variety of organizations
usinig the GDLN DLCs.
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
* Fully equipped and    * DLC GDLN             ISG certified           Technology works reliably
operational GDLN        Certification        Telecommunications report. and is accepted by trainees.
DLCs.                   (Operational
* Cost-effective          Acceptance Test)     Quarterly and Annual    Compatibility between
provision of learning   completed successfully. reports              GDLN technology and
and training          * Business Plans                               domestic (university)
opportunities.          reviewed biannually and Audit reports.       network.
modified to reflect
progress and newly   Year I Business plan    Participants/sponsors
identified opportunities. completed          willingness and ability to
* Financial management                         pay GDLN user fees.
systems in operation
and effective.                               Relevance of GDLN
* Monitoring and                               training to identified country
assessment systems                           demand.
producing quality input
to business plan and
project management
reviews.
- 15 -



* A trend that reflects a
clear progression
towards DLCs
becoming self-
sustaining. Targets:
DLCs to be 25% self-
financed in year 2, 50%
in year 3 and an
acceptable GDLN DLC
costs/income to income
ration at project closing.
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
Component 1:            US $                    ISG sign-off on Operational GDLN DLC teams remain
Establishment, retrofitting                     Acceptance Report,      business oriented.
and equipping the GDLN                          connectivity and network
Center and three                                access.                 Course content relevant to
Sub-Centers                                                            local needs.
Quarterly and Annual
reports.                Participating institutions
willing to cover part of
operating costs.
Donors and private sector
willing to support the DLCs
by allocating budget to
subsidize event
participation/training.
Component 2:            US$                     ISG sign-off on Operational
Support for GDLN center                         Acceptance Report,
and sub-centers operations                      connectivity and network
access.
Quarterly and Annual
reports.
- 16 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDONESIA: Global Development Learning Network Project (LIL)
The project comprises two main components:
1. Establishing, retrofitting and equipping the main GDLN center and the three sub-centers; and
2. Supporting GDLN operations on a decreasing basis over the project's four year implementation period.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.44 million
Establishment of GDLN Center and Three Sub-Centers
This component comprises the establishment, retrofitting .and equipping of the:
A.     Main GDLN center in UI's new building on its Salemba campus in Jakarta. The GDLN center
will include: a video-conferencing room with a 30-person capacity for "live" or synchronous video
interaction (video, data, and voice exchange) between local participants, remote course instructors and
international participants, supported by a computer screen sharing facility (T. 120 Standard); simultaneous
translation equipment; a computer room (asynchronous), outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware,
software and internet); a communications room and reception area; office and classroom furniture; video,
telecommunications, computers and microprocessor equipment; mechanical outfitting. E.g. installation
and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring; and various other equipment for GDLN operation and
security.
B.     Three sub-centers at Hasanuddin University in Makassar, the University of Riau in Pekanbaru and
Udayana University in Denpasar. The sub-centers will include: equipment (computer, inteinet and audio
visual equipment) required to connect the sub-centers to the GDLN center in Jakarta; a single multimedia
classroom with a 15-person capacity to enable a high quality video-conferencing or "live" or synchronous
video interaction between regional course instructors and participants; and an additional 15 computer
terminals that will be integrated into the local (university) area network; a communications room and
reception area; office and classroom furniture; and various other equipment for GDLN operation and
security.
Project Component 2 - US$2.17 million
Support for Center and Sub-Centers Operation.
This component includes support for the GDLN center and sub-center operations over a four year
implementation period - this consists of: financing of GDLN DLCs' operating costs (such as
communications, fiber connectivity, facility maintenance) on a decreasing basis (100%; 75%; and 50%)
over the first 3 years of operations; technical assistance for the training of GDLN center/sub-centers staff,
periodic evaluation of GDLN center/sub-centers operation and management; effectiveness and
establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit; funds for the sponsoring and development of
local course content and partnerships; and financing of technology review and upgrade.
Project Implementation Framework
Implementing Agency: The project will be implemented by Ul under the auspices of the DGHE,
MoNE. The main GDLN center will be located in Jakarta, at the Salemba campus of UI which has been
selected due to its ample space and central location. Based on the UTI's master plan, the Salemba campus
will be developed as a complex of high-rise buildings to form a Science and Technology Center, facilitating
- 17 -



activities involving businesses and industries. The sub-centers will be located within the Hasanuddin
University in Makassar, University of Riau in Pekanbaru, and the Udayana University in Denpasar. These
were selected because of their regional prominence,
Project Implementation: The project will be implemented by a CPIU, which is part of the CPIU
of the DUE and QUE Projects. The CPIU will be a small unit that will share resources and management
expertise with the DUE/QUE Projects. The CPIU will also be responsible for implementing the project
overall and coordinating and facilitating the activities of the four DLCs. The CPIU will be staffed with the
necessary personnel to effectively implement the project. At a minimum, support staffwill include
individuals with experience in procurement and financial management and auditing. At a minimum, the
four DLCs directors will be assisted by individuals with experience in procurement, financial management,
business management and information technology.
UI will establish a GDLN Distance Learning Center (DLC) within their Center fdr Learning
Resources (CLR) at Ul. The UI DLC will be the responsibility of the Vice-Rector for Academic Affairs
and will be supported by qualified personnel. The overall management of the Ul DLC wil] be entrusted to
a GDLN Director, selected on the basis of proven experience in enterprise management or management of
similar educational entities. The UI GDLN Director will be employed full-time.
Each DLC is preparing comprehensive business plans under DGHE supervision. The plans
include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be provided (lectures,
seminars, etc.), source and programming of training, rates for different types of training and financial
projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy. The business plans will be
updated annually or as required and submitted for DGHE and Bank review.
Project Financing: The Bank will finance GDLN DLC retrofitting, equipment and consultant
services, and training related to GDLN start-up. Over the project implementation period, the Bank will
also finance, on a decreasing basis, GDLN operating expenditures. As the market for its services develops,
each center will mobilize an increasing share of financing for its operating expenses. The plan is that they
will achieve self-sufficiency within the project implementation period, through a combination of user-fees
and re-directed university core training budgets. Institutions are expected to finance 0% of operating
expenses in the first year, 25% in the second year, and 50% in the third year, and to reach sustainability in
the fourth year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The quality of the offerings and services of GDLN
DLCs will be assessed through participants questionnaires, to be completed by participants after each event
or course. Follow-up surveys designed to indicate long-term value of the services and course content will
be administered six months after course completion. The general performance of the GDLN DLCs and the
functioning of GDLN in Indonesia as a member of the intemational network will be assessed quarterly. An
initial assessment of the financial and economic viability of the Indonesia GDLN scheme will be carried out
at the end of the first year of operation and at that time a schedule will be set for further assessments. A
GDLN Advisory Board (respective Rectors, relevant industries, businesses, non-governmental
organizations, international organizations, donors) wil] review and evaluate operations. The Board will
provide necessary suggestions to improve and enhance the effectiveness of the GDLN operation.
Matching Demand with Supply of Content: WBI has considerable experience in the production,
delivery and evaluation of distance learning programs. The intent is to develop a dynamic knowledge
management system in Indonesia capable of distilling international experience and making it available for
- 18 -



further adaptation in a local setting. The project will help build the capability in Indonesia to adapt relevant
policy and technical knowledge to the domestic context, and where possible, to create new knowledge
products which in turn will be accessed in other countries. For example, UI is prepared to deliver a series
of higher education management programs in late 2002, jointly developed by Higher Education Funding
Council for England (HEFCE) and the Board of higher Education (BHE). Courses will be targeted to
decision and policy makers in higher education sector, senior-level university managers (rectors, deans, and
department heads), and graduate students in management and education.
During November 2000, a two-day conference was held in Singapore where GDLN managers and
prospective content partners gathered to establish the Global Development Learning Network East Asia
and Pacific Association (GDLN-EAPA). The GDLN-EAPA will work collaboratively to develop
additional content specifically for the region. The UI GDLN center and the GDLN-EAPA will engage in
the formative identification of demand throughout the year. The GDLN-EAPA will also provide a regional
database of content suppliers. A similar database will be compiled by ANU of Australian content suppliers.
Providers of additional local content will also be identified by the UI GDLN center.
19-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDONESIA: Global Development Learning Network Project (LIL)
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million  US $million
1. Establishment of GDLN center and three sub-centers       0.71         0.73          1.44
2. Support for center and sub-center operation              1.64          0.36         2.00
Total Baseline Cost                                         2.35          1.09         3.44
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.15          0.02         0.17
Total Project Costs'               2.50          1.11         3.61
Front-end fee                     0.03          0.03
Total Financing Required                2.50          1.14         3.64
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million   US $mifllon  US $million
Goods                                                         0.35          1.02          1,37
Works                                                         0.40          0.00          0.40
Incremental Operating Costs (i) Global Connectivity           1.01          0.00          1.01
(li) Local Connectivity and ISG Networking Services           0.22          0.01          0.23
Content Development Services and Training                     0.32          0.08          0.40
Project Management                                            0.20          0.00          0.20
Total Project Costs       2.50           1.11          3.61
Front-end fee                     0.03          0.03
Total Financing Required       2.50           1.14          3.64
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 3.64 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 73.08% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 20 -



Annex 4: Financial Management
INDONESIA: Global Development Learning Network Project (LIL)
Financial Management. Accounting and ReDorting Arrangements
Attachment 1 contains an Action Plan for Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The financial management assessment for CGDLN Project
was carried out by Financial Management Officer, WBOJ. The assessment was carried out in accordance
with Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects, Guidelines to
Staff issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001. The Assessment reviewed the
operation of Central Project Impementation Unit (CPCU) of Quality Undergraduate Education/QUE
(EBRD 4193-IND) and Higher Education Support Project-Development of Undergraduate/DUE (IBRD
4043-IND) in Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) in Ministry of National Education
(MoNE). The assessment of CPIU concluded that the accounting and financial management procedures
employed by CPIU and CLR are acceptable to the Bank and in compliance with the requirements of OP/BP
10.02.
The assessment of GDLN project concluded that CPIU will have to be established by DGHE. In
addition to that, although all of the CPIU staff already have sufficient experience in managing the Bank
project, it is expected that improvement of coordination and more understanding on roles and duties of the
CPIU staff are addressed by: (a)'adoption of a Project Management Manual (PMM) - the PMM will
include organization structure, job description, budgeting, procurement, guidelines for record keeping,
Financial Management Report (FMR) preparation and its use for the disbursement based, financial
statements preparation, record and fixed assets management, internal control, monitoring and evaluation
mechanism for the project management system and auditing arrangements for the project; and (b) training
on procurement and financial management as described in PMM including the preparation of FMR for the
relevant staff within the CPIU, CLR and sub-centers.
- 21 -



Implementing Agency: As noted the project CPIU will be attached to the CPIU of the DUE and
QUE Projects and will be headed by a Director who will be supported by a treasurer, a procurement officer
and a project secretary. The CPIU will coordinate the preparation of the annual work program, monitor
progress in project implementation and compliance with Bank safeguard policies, including preparation of
procurement, performance indicators, physical achievements and expenditures, and preparation and
submittal to the Bank of quarterly progress reports on overall project implementation. The CPIU will be
responsible for: (a) coordinating all project activities (in accordance with Loan Agreement); (b) ensuring
that the project is implemented in line with the PMM; and (c) submission of project FMRs on a quarterly
basis to the World Bank (no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter). Each of the Directors of the
four DLCs will have similar responsibilities with the exception of (a) above, in this regard they will
coordinate only the activities of their own center. Each project treasurer (one at each DLC) will be
responsible for (a) preparing, keeping and maintaining project accounting records, including the
preparation of the project financial statements for audit purposes; (b) monitoring the loan disbursement
status by category and component; and (c) preparing financial reports as part of the quarterly FMR
process. Each procurement officer will be responsible for: (a) organizing the procurement requirements of
the project; (b) carrying out, monitoring and evaluating procurement of goods and any selection of
consultants required by the project; and (c) preparing procurement reports that may be part of the quarterly
FMRs. In addition, CPIU will (a) monitor and evaluate DLC implementation of the project program in
accordance with the Loan Agreement; and (b) prepare physical progress report as part of the quarterly
FMRs.
Funds Flow: The DLC Directors will be responsible for authorizing all expenditures in accordance
with the agreed budgets under existing government procedures. Each DLC will open a bank account and
will make a six month forecast on fund requirements. These forecasts will be the basis upon which CPIU
will submit payment requests to the relevant MoF Treasury Office (KPKN). They, in turn, will issue
payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to the DLCs' accounts and to debit the project Special
Account. Upon effectiveness, the DG Budget will provide guidelines and criteria for eligible project
expenditures, in accordance with the proposed loan agreement. A flow of funds summary is provided in
Attachment 2.
Accounting Policies and Procedures: The CPIU, and the DLCs will follow DGHE standardized
accounting systems and record management procedures for projects. These, in general, follow the
government accounting procedures (full details of these procedures are to be found in project files).
Project Management Manual (PMM): The PMM will document the financial management
system and procedures to be followed by CPIU and the DLCs. The PMM will also include: (a) DLC
organization structure and key job descriptions; (b) budgeting processes; (c) procurement agreements and
plans; (d) guidelines for record keeping, Financial Management Report (FMR) preparation and for
disbursement based, financial statements preparation; (e) guidelines for fixed assets management; (f)
intemal control, safeguards and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms; and (g) auditing arrangements for
the project. In addition, the PMM will outline a training plan for procurement and financial management
including the preparation of FMR for relevant staff within the CPIU and the DLCs.
- 22 -



Audit: The proposed project audits will be based on annual project accounts that are themselves
based on the quarterly FMRs. Auditors shall audit the DLCs accounts and subsequently consolidate their
reports for review by the Bank and the Gol. CPIU shall prepare consolidated project accounts including
special account and SOEs, based on FMR, for audit by the Auditor. The annual audit reports shall be
furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the government fiscal year. The audit will be
conducted in accordance with the Term of Reference for audit included as Attachment 3 to this annex and
Audit Manual for World Bank financed project (EAP, July 1998). The auditor will also audit, due process
and due diligence the attainment of objectives according to the agreed performance indicators.
Financial Management Report: The FMR fonnat will include: (a) Financial Report, (b) Output
Monitoring Report, and (c) Procurement Management Report. To include the following documents:
(i) Financial Report
Report 1-A   Project Sources .md Uses of Funds
Report 1-B    Use of Funds by Project Activity
Report 1-C    Project Cash Withdrawal (Disbursements)
Report 1-D   Bank Account Reconciliation Statement
Report I -D- I  List of Payment Order for Loan Fund Realization
Report I -D-2  List of Payment Order for GOI Fund Realization
Report 1 -E   Project Cash Forecast
Report 1-F    Disbursements and Expenditures Status for Loan Fund
(ii) Output Monitoring Report
Report 2-B    Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by Project Activity)
(iii) Procurement Management Report
Report 3-A    Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
Report 3-B    Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services)
Report 3-C    Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
Report 3-D    Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)
The FMR is to be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis within 45 days of the end of the quarter. The
initial submission will include Report I -E Project Cash Forecast for the amount of initial deposit required
for the first six months of project implementation.
FMR-based Disbursement: In order to facilitate disbursements from the Loan a Special Account
denominated in US dollars will be opened in the Central Bank under the name of Ministry of Finance. The
maximun ceiling of this account will be US $500,000 equivalent to about six months average
disbursements in the peak period. The management of the Special Account will be under the responsibility
of the CPIU. Disbursements from the Bank Loan would be made to the Special Account based on the
submission of the FMR prepared by the CPIU. All documentation for the expenditures as reported in the
FMR would be retained at the relevant CPIU and shall be made available to auditors for the annual audit
and to the Bank during the supervision missions. The Bank's disbursement would be for the six months
projected expenditures as reported in the FMR.
- 23 -



Attachment 1
Action Plan for Financial Management
GDLN Project
Issues                         Action              Resp.      Due Date
Organization
Appointment of CPIU and DLC staff  Decrees on the appointment of the  GOI  Done
which are acceptable to the Bank.  CPIU and DLC staff.
Project Management Manual (PMMV)
The PMM will include sections on   Draft PMM0 GOI                         Done
organization structure, job descriptions,
budgeting, procurement agreements
and plans, guidelines for record
keeping, Financial Management Report
(FMR) preparation and use, financial
statements preparation,. guidelines for
fixed assets management, internal
controls, safeguards and monitoring
and evaluation mechanisms, auditing
arrangements and governance and
disclosure requirements for the project.
Issuance of PMM acceptable to  GOI     By
the Bank                               effectiveness
Training for DLC key staff to acquire  PMM training              GOI    After
the necessary skills to carry out their                                 effectiveness
respective duties as described in the
PMM.
C. Financial Management Report
(FMR) and Auditing
Submission of the first FMR to cover  First FMR                   GOI     After
the fund required for the first six                                       effectiveness
months of the project
Arrangements for project auditing in  Letter of appointment of            Done
accordance with a specific ToR.     Auditor
- 24 -



Attachment 2
Global Development Learning Network Project
Flow of Funds
IBRD
/                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~audns
PMR based disbursemerA/
PMR
J Debit to                    |          payment            Copies SPM
SpecBal Account      GuCdellnesrequest                                    au
_MOF Treasury /
Bank Indonesia         SPM      KPKN      _/
Branch omce_/
funds
transfer
fnd
transfer
(only for payment to CLR/Sub-Centers)
!CLPJSub-centem Bank Account     | h daepso  lo      CLRtSub-centers      |adits
- 25 -



Attachment 3
Terms of Reference
Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statements
Indonesia- GDLN Project
Objectives
The overall objectives of the audit are: (a) to enable the auditor to express a professional
opimon on the project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management system
including internal controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (b) to provide project
management with timely information on financial aspects of the project to enable follow-up action; and
(c) to assess the achievements of the project objectives as measured by performance indicators.
The audit should cover the entire project, i.e. covering all sources and application of funds by
all implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and other
agencies as considered necessary for the audit.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and with
the Audit Manual for World Bank-Financed projects (July 1998). It will include such tests and
controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. Specific areas of coverage of the
audit will include the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
consistently applied Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and give a true and fair view
of the operations of the project during the year and the financial position of the project at the close of
the fiscal year. Any material deviations from GAAP, and the impact of such departures on the project
financial statements as presented would be stated;
(2) An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems', including intemal
controls. This would include aspects such as adequacy and effectiveness of accounting, financial and
operational controls, and any needs for revision; level of compliance with established policies, plans
and procedures; reliability of accounting systems, data and financial reports; methods of remedying
weak controls or creating them where there are none; verification of assets and liabilities; and integrity,
controls, security and effectiveness of the operation of the computerized system (if any); and
(3) An assessment of compliance with provisions of financing agreements, especially those relating to
accounting and financial matters. This would inter alia include verification that:
(a)  all extemal funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant
financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes
for which the financing was provided.
(b) counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which
they were provided,
- 26 -



(c) expenditures charged to the project are eligible expenditures and have been correctly
classified in accordance with the relevant financing agreement;
(d) goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement;
(e) all necessary supporting documents, records, and accounts have been kept in respect of all
project activities;
(f) clear linkages exist between the accounting records including accounts books and the
Project Financial Statements;
(g) where Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the relevant financing agreement;
(h) FMR used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications accurately reflect
expenditures and activities on the project; and
(i) project expenditures as reported by the project implementation agencies are reconciled with
the amounts withdrawn,fro;n the Special Account and the amounts deposited to the special
account are reconciled with the amounts disbursed from Loan/Grants.
(4) An assessment on the achievements of the planned results of the project as measured by the
performance indicators as stipulated in the relevant financing agreement.
Project Financial Statements.
The Center and each Sub-Centers shall prepare its annual FMR as the project financial
statement. The FMR, covering Project Account and Special Account shall be prepared by the CPIU,
should include: (a) Annual Project Sources and Uses of Funds; and (b) Cumulative Project Sources and
Uses of Funds. (c) deposits and replenishments received from the Bank; (d) withdrawals from the bank
account; and (e) the remaining balances at the end of the fiscal year. Sources of funds would show
Loan/Grant, other donors, and GOI counterpart funds separately. FMR would be sumrnarized project
expenditures by main project components, disbursement categories and by project location (province)
both consolidated for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date.
The auditor should provide an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Bank's
procedures and the exact balance of the Special Account at year-end. The auditor should examine the
eligibility and integrity of financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at
the end of the period, the operation and use of the special account in accordance with the financing
agreement, and the adequacy of intemal financial controls.
Special Account: The auditor must assess a reconciliation report between the project
expenditures made from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account.
Reconciliation should also be made with the amounts paid from the pre-fmancing account and direct
payments (if any). The auditor should assess a reconciliation report between the amounts deposited to
the special account and disbursed by the Bank to the special account.
The auditor is also required to audit all FMR (paid from the special account and/or other
- 27 -



accounts) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications. The auditor should apply
such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. These expenditures
in the FMR should be carefully compared for project eligibility with the relevant financing agreements,
and with reference to the Project Appraisal Document for guidance when considered necessary.
Ineligible expenditures identified as having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed by
the Bank should be noted separately by the auditor. The total withdrawals should be part of the overall
reconciliation of Bank disbursements described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project financial
statements, including an opinion on the Special Account and a separate paragraph commenting on the
accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn based on PMR and the extent to which the Bank can
rely on FMRs as a basis for Loan/Grant disbursement.' The report should refer to the auditor's TOR
The auditor should submit the report to the project executing agency who should then promptly
forward one copy of the audited accounts and report to the Bank. It should be received by the Bank no
later than six months after the end of the project's fiscal year.
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which the
auditor will:
(a) give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were
examined during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in
systems and controls and make recommendation for their improvement;
(b) give comments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of resources;
(c) report on the achievement of the planned results of the project;
(d) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing agreement
and give cormments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such compliance;
(e) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a significant
impact on the implementation of the project; and
(f) any other matters that the auditors consider pertinent.
General
The auditor should b1e given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also
be obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Bank.
The auditor should be familiar with the Bank's Audit Manualfor World Bank Financed
Projects which provides guidance to auditors conducting audits of Bank-financed projects.
The financial managmet system would include methods and records established to identsfy. assemble, analyzc, claify, trord and repor sn tansactons and to mn
- 28 -



accountability for the mlated assets and liabilities
- 29 -



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
INDONESIA: Global Development Leaming Network Project (LIL)
Pr,o,je ,ct  Schedule           -.:,,,.                          ........-:,,--.,,,.n..,':,,'PlIanne ,d  - _______,'_-__'_Ac.tual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            08/15/2000                08/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    03/18/2001                04/10/2002
Negotiations                                   04/15/2001                06/18/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/01/2001                08/01/2002
Prepared by:
Directorate General of Higher Education
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Speciality
Jerry Strudwick                  Team Leader. Senior Education Specialist
Sonya Woo                        Ass. GDLN Coordinator
Robert McGough                   Consultant
Vidoje Brajovic                  Lead Information Officer, Technical Manager
Naseer Ahmad Rana                Senior Procurement Specialist
Novira Asra                      Financial Management
Karin I. Nordlander              Lead Counsel
Christopher Lemer                Counsel
Hilarion Bruneau                 Disbursement Officer
Elsa Warouw                      Administration
Joan E. Morgan-Nicholson         Administration
- 30 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDONESIA: Global Development Learning Network Project (LIL)
Procurement
Organization
1.      The Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) and Distance Learning is a project to
develop a Global Development Learning Network Center at the Salemba Campus of University of
Indonesia (UI), Jakarta, and three sub-centers at Udayana University (Denpasar), Hasanuddin University
(Makassar) and University of Riau (Pekanbaru). The Central Project Coordination Unit (CPCU) of
Quality Undergraduate Education/QUE (IBRD 4193-IND) and Higher Education Support
Project-Development of Undergraduate/DUE (IBRD 4043-IND) in Directorate General of Higher
Education (DGHE) in Ministry of National Education (MoNE) was reviewed. This unit will also serve
as the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) of GDLN project. Main procurement actions will be
completed by the procurement staff of CPIU, who will also assist the provinces with their minor
procurement actions. The staff of the CPIU is familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures and has
experience under National Competitive Bidding, National Shopping, and selection of consultants.
Decrees on the appointment of the staff of the CPIU including the procurement support by CPCU will be
issued before negotiations. If the procurement support is not forthcoming from the CPCU in a timely
manner, then alternative arrangement must be made including hiring a consultant experienced with the
Bank's procurement procedures on a short-term basis.
Procurement arrangements
2.     The procurement procedure shall follow the Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999; and
Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, Revised
September 1997, January 1999 and April 2002. Also, applicable is the Guidance Note on GDLN
Procurement issued by the Bank's Central Procurement Unitissued by Jean-Jacques Raoul on July 13,
2001. In accordance with para 9 e of the guidance note attached under Annex B below the government
was asked to choose from the various options available. The government after obtaining further
clarifications from the Bank chose to use the firms selected by the Bank for equipment and services for
pedagogical tools and local connectivity. The details of all procurement activities under this project are
given below.
Procurement of Goods (USD 1,351,700):
Goods: Firms Selected by the Bank
Local Connectivity Equipment and Pedagogical Tools (USD 732,800)
3.    One key part of the system is the Local Connectivity Equipment and the Pedagogical Tools
which is required to transform the feed into interactive visual, audio, and data display for instructional
purposes.
4.    The Borrower has agreed to accept the option offered by the Bank of using the services of firm(s)
-31 -



selected by the Bank. The principal reasons in accepting that option are:
a)   While video conference technology, to a certain extent, is not a new technology for Indonesia,
application connecting an IP based video conference to a global network, such as GDLN, has never been
carried out in this country.
b)   The equipment needed for the Local Connectivity and the Pedagogical Tools is mostly off-the-shelf
technology readily available in the market. However, to program and to integrate the local infrastructure,
connectivity equipment, and pedagogical tools, which is necessary to be able to transform the feed from
the global network into interactive visual, audio, and data display for instructional purposes, will require
considerable experiences to ensure compatibility with the global network.
c)  In view of the fact that compliance with the Bank's Global Communication System (GCS) Hub
and the GDLN network is a prerequisite, the understanding and knowledge of the GDLN specifications
is very essential to carry out the task mentioned in item b). Practically, at present, such crucial
knowledge is only possessed by the Bank's ISG.
d)   For further expansion of this project, if the GOI would like to establish new sub-centers in addition
to the 3 (three) currently planned under this project, the understanding and knowledge of the GDLN
specifications would have been acquired domestically.
5.    Under this approach, the Bank is managing the competitive procurement process for the
integration of services and pedagogical equipment, and has recently completed the "Request for
Proposals" (RFP), which will be a public document made available to country institutions and
organizations providing financing for GDLN centers. However, once a contractor has been
competitively selected, the Borrower selecting these services would be able to procure the integration of
services and pedagogical equipment through its own independent contracts (as direct contracting from
the point of view of the Borrower) with the selected firm. The Contractor will buy, stage, and test the
Equipment. At the conclusion of the Equipment Acceptance Test and Protocol, the equipment will be
shipped by the Contractor and installed by the Bank's ISG.
6.    The justification of this direct contracting is that this option is expected to offer the lowest cost to
the Borrower and minimize risks to the quality of the network communication services provided by the
Bank to the GDLN. If the Borrower had not chosen this option and decided to procure this equipment
through ICB, it would have been required as a condition of accessing the Bank's Global Communication
System (GCS) Hub and the GDLN network to accept in writing that the Bank's ISG will provide final
inspection and certification of network readiness for their DLC(s). The procurement guidance note
explains the Bank's procurement procedure in detail.
Goods: Firms Selected by the Borrower
Local Infrastructure, Furnishing and Equipment (USD 338,000)
7.     Facilities equipment like air conditioners and fumiture for all sites, and Local Infrastructure
Equipment like generators, UPS, telephone, scanners, copiers, fax machines, etc, for all sites will be
procured under the National Shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with Articles 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Each contract not to exceed USD 50,000.
Maintenance and Spare Parts (USD 280,900)
8.    Contracts for maintenance of all sites will be under the National Shopping procedures acceptable
to the Bank in accordance with Articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, with each contract not to exceed
- 32 -



USD 50,000. Spare parts of propriety nature may be procured through direct contracting procedures
consistent with Article 3.7 of the Guidelines, with a threshold of USD 30,000 and an aggregate of USD
100,000.
Procurement of works (USID.372,800)
9.     Civil works is for the renovation of the class rooms to meet the facilities standards established
by ISG. The GDLN Center in Jakarta will be contracted under the NCB procedures for a contract not to
exceed USD 200,000. Civil works at the sub-centers will be contracted under procurement of small
works based on quotations obtained from qualified contractors for contracts not to exceed USD 75,000
and an aggregate of USD 200,000. This will require a side-letter stating the requirement for NCB to be
acceptable (attached under Annex C).
Selection of Consultants (USD 409,300)
10.    These are contracts for individual consultants for technical assistance for training of DLC staff,
business plan development and review, periodic evaluation of operations and management effectiveness,
and content development.
Operational Costs (USD 1,270,300)
11.   These costs will be based on the government's procedures for these operational expenditures.
This includes the fiber connectivity equipment and service for three years for all four sites. This service
can only be provided by a few local firms. The selection will be based on quotations received from these
firms. This also includes expenses for overseas training.
Review Thresholds and Supervision
12.    The threshold for prior review will be US$ 100,000 for all methods for goods and works, except
direct contracting. For contracts under direct contracting before the execution of any contract a copy of
the specifications and the draft contract will be provided, and procedures under paragraphs 2(f), 2(g),
and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. The threshold for the employment of intdividual
consultants will be US$50,000.
13.    A project launch worlkshop will be held after effectiveness and the first supervision mission be
carried out six months after effectiveness and once every six months thereafter. Procurement post review
should be carried out every year for at least fifteen percent of the contracts below the prior review
threshold.
-33 -



Annex A
Procurement Plan
Pkg. #  ComponentVDesc.  1 Estimated  1 Procurement    Date of     Date of 1 Indicative
of Services/Goods  Cost        Method           RFPIITB    Award     Completion/
($ 000)                                           Delivery Date
Procurement of Goods
Firms Selected by the Bank
1       Pedagogical tools       732.8  Direct          July 02     July 31  June 03
and Local                      Contracting
Connectivity                  (Firm(s) selected
by WB through a
competitive
process)
Firms Selected by GOI
2       Salemba: Local          115.1  NS              July 02     July 31  June 03
Infra & Furnishing
(multiple contracts)
3      Pekambaru: Local           82.3 NS              July 02     July 31  June 03
Infra & Fumishing
(multiple contracts)
4      Denpasar: Local infra      82.3 NS              July 02     July 31  June 03
& Furnishing (multiple
contracts)
5      Makassar: Local Infra      58.3 NS              July 02     July 31  June 03
& Furnishing (multiple
contracts)
6      Salemba:                  112.9 NS              July 02     July 31  June 03
Maintenance & spare
parts
7      Pakanbaru:                 56.C NS              July 02     July 31  June 03
Maintenance & spare
parts
8      Denpasar:                  56. NS               July 02     July 31   June 03
Maintenance & spare
parts                                              .
9      Makasar:                   56. NS               July 02     July 31   June 03
Maintenance & spare
_ parts
Procurement of Works
10      Jakarta: Facilities     158.3  NCB             July 02     Aug 31   June 03
Rehab            _
11     Denpasar: Facilities       71.6 Small Works     July 02     July 31   June 03
Rehab
12     Makassar: Facilities       71. Small Works      July 02     July 31  June 03
Rehab                                                                I
- 34 -



13    |Pekanbaru: Facilities |   71.lSmall Works      July02      July31   June 03
|Rehab
Selection of Consultants
14      Salemba: TA            199.8 IC               July 02     July 31  June 04
(Multiple contracts)  _
15     Pekanbaru: TA             61. IC               July 02     July 31  June 04
(Multiple contracts)
16     Denpasar: TA              61. IC              July02       July 31  June 04
(Multiple contracts)  _I 
17     Makassar: TA              61. IC               July 02     July 31  June 04
_ (Multiple contracts)  _
Operational Costs
18      Global/Local          1270.3  Govt. procedures  on-going  on-goin  June 04
connectivity and                                           9
other services
(Multilple
Contracts)        _                                                .
19     Training                 25.3  Govt. procedures  on-going  on-goin  June 04
9
-35 -



ANNEX B
Guidance Note
GDLN Procurement
Background
1.    In FY00 GDLN Phase I development of Distance Learning Centers (DLCs) was accelerated by
an MD waiver which enabled the Bank to procure centrally under existing contracts for technology and
connectivity services that enabled the GDLN to be carried on the Bank's Global Communication System
(GCS). Included were: a) the satellite technology and services required for direct connection to the GCS
and the GDLN; and b) the pedagogical equipment package and maintenance services needed to transform
the satellite feed into interactive visual, audio and data display for instructional purposes within a GDLN
center. The Bank's Information Solutions Group (ISG) and General Services Departments (GSD)
managed the procurement, installation and integration of both packages, with management support from
the World Bank Institute (WBI). ISG also assumed maintenance obligations similar to those for country
offices of the Bank, at the same charge back rates.
2.     Bilateral sponsors (CIDA, USAID) chose to use this procurement model because of the high
probability of system integrity, lower costs and the backup technical and maintenance services of the
Bank. It is noted that the GDLN uses the World Bank's Global Communication System and that all
GDLN DLCs using that system must meet World Bank technical standards in order to preserve the
technical reliability of the GCS.
3.      It is also noted that learning centers may become affiliates of the GDLN using existing
technology and by connecting through ISDN and other non-satellite communications networks to the
Bank's GCS hub (s). In such cases these affiliate learning centers bear all responsibility for the
technical quality of communication services between the affiliate and the Bank's GCS hubs. In such
cases, this guidance
note does not apply.
4.      In November 2000 it was agreed by all parties that Phase II would repeat Phase I procedures
for FY01. At the same time ISG/WBI would prepare for Phase HI, which would entail competitive
central procurement of connectivity, integration services, technology, and maintenance services, with
bidders asked to propose on the procurement and integration services provide in Phases I and II by ISG.
ISG and GSD have completed the RFP for Phase Im, and are prepared to go to the market. Importantly,
the Phase 111 approach will enable ISG.to outsource the maintenance services. This will in tum enable
countries to pay with Bank financing which otherwise cannot be used to pay for ISG's maintenance
services.
5.      Under this approach, once a bidder has been competitively selected, countries seeking to
procure connectivity, integration services and pedagogical equipment would be able to do so through
independent contracts with the competitively selected bidder.
Issues and Analysis
6.      A numnber of issues regarding this approach were raised in May 2001, including whether or not
the proposed Phase m procedures could be acceptable under Bank procurement rules. Standard
NCB/ICB procedures were suggested as an altemative that would not raise issues at the country level.
- 36 -



These issues were reviewed by WBI, ISG and regional staff engaged in developing GDLN centers, and
summarized in a note that evaluates a range of procurement options against various risk criteria. GDLN
Technology Procurement Options, World Bank Institute, May 16, 2001. The note concluded with a
recommendation to follow the proposed competitive centralized procurement approach because it would
offer lowest costs to countries and minimize risks to the quality of network communication services
provided by the Bank to the GDLN.
Review and Decision
7.     The issues and analyses contained in.the Note have been reviewed by a commnittee consisting of
the Acting Chairman of the Procurement Board (OCSPR), the Chief Information Officer (ISG), technical
staff from the GCS, the Director of Institutional Procurement (GSD), the Director Global Learning
(WBI) and representatives of LEG and the EAP Regional Procurement Advisor.
8.    The committee decided to proceed with centralized competitive procurement on the basis of risk
and cost considerations. The committee endorsed the direct role of the Bank in participating in the
procurement and installation processes as necessary to ensure the quality of services provided through
the Bank's GCS. The Committee noted that the RFP will be a public document available to country
institutions and organizations providing financing for GDLN centers. The Committee also endorsed
making the procurement services available to other organizations financing DLCs for the GDLN, such as
bi-lateral donors and country organizations that will provide their own financing for DLC connectivity
and technology.
9.     The following understandings apply to the procurement process:
a)   A contractor(s) to provide procurement services for connectivity equipment and services,
integration services, and pedagogical equipment will be selected competitively.
b)   Countries or organizations establishing GDLN DLCs will be offered the option of using the
services provided by the selected firm(s), regardless of source of financing. Written assurances from the
appropriate country institution(s) or organizations of the intention to use the services will be required.
Countries or organizations selecting these services will contract directly with the competitively chosen
firm(s).
c)   All countries or organizations seeking to connect to the satellites operated by the Bank's GCS,
must, as a practical matter, purchase equipment and communication services that meet GCS
specifications.
d)   Countries or organizations choosing not to use these procurement services will be required as a
condition of accessing the Bank's GCS and the GDLN network to accept in writing that the Bank (ISG)
will provide final inspection and certification of network readiness for their DLC(s). Countries or
organizations choosing not to use these procurement services will also accept all connectivity and
performance risks associated with an alternative approach to procurement, including a possible Bank
decision not to issue network readiness certification.
e)   Countries or organizations may choose to use the central competitive procurement process in whole
or in part, subject to the requirement in 9 c) above. For example, purchasers may choose to use regular
NCB/ICB procedures for computers and pedagogical equipment while using the centralized
competitively chosen firm (s) for connectivity equipment and services.
Implementation
10. Implementation responsibilities for the centralized competitive procurement will be as follows:
- 37 -



a)   GSD and ISG will manage the competitive procurement process (see section on ISG
Responsibilities below). Bidders will be informed that a minimum of ten (10) DLCs will be established
and equipped, in whole or part, through the winning bidder in FY02 and FY03, with provision for
increases in this number.
b)   RVP GDLN teams will negotiate agreements with borrowers in accordance with paragraphs 9 b)
and 9 c) using a procurement agreement to be provided by GSD/ISG, with clearance by LEG and
OCSPR.
c)   World Bank Institute (WBI) will negotiate the same agreements with extemal partners financing
DLCs that would be connected with the Bank's GCS.
ISG Responsibilities
11.   ISG (together with GSD) will manage the competitive procurement process to select Contractor
to provide DLC Equipment, assemble it, cable and program it, and perform the Equipment Acceptance
Test prior to shipment to DLC.
12.   MOU Between Client and ISG. ISG will enter into Procurement Agreements with Clients
which will define all terms and conditions for purchase of DLC's Equipment through the competitively
selected Contractor. Also, the same document will define all terms and conditions under which the Client
(DLC) will enter into the Service Agreement with the Bank's Contractor to obtain a Global Connectivity
Service. Procurement Agreement has to be cleared by LEG and OPCPR.
13.   Assessment Of Needs And Cost Estimates. In order to establish and equip a DLC site, a ISG
expert will first perform a site survey to determine, in concert with DLC management, whether changes
in DLC Equipment requirements are needed, and arranges for local infrastructure procurements. The
Bank will assist the DLC in preparing the purchase orders for local infrastructure. Once this process is
complete, the DLC management will generate and submit an Equipment Order to ISG for the final
approval. The Bank will then forward the purchase order to the Contractor.
14.   Eguipment Purchase. Staging and Acceptance Testing. The Contractor will buy, stage, and
test the Equipment. The detailed process is defined below:
a)   When all Equipment has been received, assembled, cabled and programmed, Contractor shall
notify the ISG, via Email, so that arrangements can be made for the ISG's Team Leader to monitor and
actively participate in the Equipment Acceptance Test. The Contactor must conduct a complete
Acceptance Test of the Equipment, to demonstrate that Equipment and Software supplied by the
Contractor performs according to the manufacturer's operating specifications, and must conduct the
Acceptance Test Protocol in to demonstrate GDLN Equipment functionality.
b)   The complete Equipment Acceptance Test of the Equipment shall be performed at Contractor's
Staging test bed site, with the cooperation and participation of a ISG Senior Project Engineer according
to the detailed Acceptance Test Protocol provided by the Bank.
15.   ISG's Sian-off. At the conclusion of the Equipment Acceptance Test Protocol, Contractor will
furnish the GDLN Team Leader, DLC Client and ISG's Team Leader with a preliminary Certification of
Satisfactory Completion, noting any anomalies, which Contractor is responsible for correcting. Upon
correction of any anomalies, Contractor shall issue a Certificate of Satisfactory Completion to the DLC
Client with copy to the GDLN Team Leader amd ISG Team Leader, marking the commencement of the
- 38 -



Manufacturer's Warranty period. After successful completion of the Acceptance and receiving
Certificate of Satisfactory Completion, ISG Teamn Leader will observe and sign-off on testing prior to
Equipment shipping.
16.    Eauipment Shippin2. Contractor will disassemble the Equipment following successful
completion of the Acceptance Test and prepare, package and where necessary, palletize the Equipment
for shipment to the GDLN bonded Export warehouse where all equipment and documentation will be
prepared for Export.
17.   Custom Considerations. DLC management will be responsible to import the Equipment
(custom clearance and payment of import duties if applicable). The DLC management will, as an
integral part of the purchase orders for a local infrastructure, furnish the Contractor with information
concerning the particular country's Customs requirements as well as the names and addresses of the
appropriate government agencies concerned with the relevant rules and regulations that apply. The
Contractor will be obliged to provide a proper documentation fully compliant with a local regulations
which will enable a simple custom clearance.
18.    Contractor Payment. The DLC will, after receiving the Bank's sign-off on testing, issue a
request to the Bank for direct disbursement to the Contractor of 100% of the total price. The Bank
confinns to the Contractor that the DLC has issued a request for direct disbursement of payment to the
Contractor and will release payment to Contractor.
19.   Equipment Installation at DLC Site and Operational Acceptance Test. ISG staff will install
and test the equipment at the D)LC site. During installation, ISG staff will train DLC's client staff for the
Equipment operation and handling. After the Equipment has been fully installed, the Operational
Acceptance Test will be carried out by the Bank and the DLC Client staff for all of the Equipment.
20.    VSAT Equipment Installation at DLC Site and Operational Acceptance Test. An external
Connectivity vendor will install and test the VSAT (connectivity) equipment at the DLC site. ISG staff,
together with DLC staff, will perform an Operational Acceptance Test (as per the existing Contracts) to
ensure that the provided communications facility performs as per Contract's Specifications. After
performing a successful acceptance test, ISG staff will train DLC's client staff for the connectivity
equipment operation and handling.
21.    DLC's Sign-off. Upon successful completion of the Operational Acceptance Test for the DLC
Equipment, the Equipment will be handed over to the DLC Client, who will take full responsibility for
the Equipment maintenance and operation (startup maintenance will be partially covered by the provided
warranties by manufactures). At the same time, after completion of an Operational Acceptance Test for
the communications facility, Client will enter a Contract with the Bank's Communications Service
Provider, who will provide connectivity service as well as communications facility maintenance and
operation.
- 39 -



ANNEX C
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Date:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Sirs:
Re:    Loan No.    -IND;
(Global Development Learning Network (GDLN)
Representations and Assurances Relating to
National Comnpetitive Bidding Procedures
in connecton with the Development Loan Agreement of this date between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for the
above-captioned Project, I am writing on behalf of the Republic of Indonesia to set forth the following:
1.     General
The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding under Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement shall be those set forth in Presidential Decree No. 18/2000 of the Republic of Indonesia with the
clarifications set forth in the following paragraphs required for compliance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (the Guidelines).
2.     Registration
(a)    Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(b)    Where registration is required, bidders (i) shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete
the registration process, and (ii) shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and
resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification.
-40 -



3.     Pemgualfcation
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works (not for simple goods and
works):
(a)    eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification, and
(b)    invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated
national daily newspaper a minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification
applications.
4.     Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a joint
venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition of award of the
contract.
5.     Prefeences
(a)    No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(b)    Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and local regulations,
which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of contractors or a class of suppliers shall
not be applicable to procurement procedures under the Credit or the Loan.
6.     Advertising
(a)    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids and allowing
potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 24 hours prior the deadline for the submission of
bids.
(b)    Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay
the required fee.
(c)    Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for procurement
shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of the contract.
(d)    Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity for registering.
7.     Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or bank guarantee from
a reputable bank.
-41 -



8.     Bid Openinz and Bid Evaluation
(a)    Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids, and
if bids are invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time.
(b)    Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the bidding
documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder.
(c)    Bidders shall not be eliminated from  detailed evaluation on the basis of minor,
non-substantial deviations.
(d)    No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.
9.     Rejection of Bids
(a)    All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the /Bank's prior concurrence.
(b)    When the number of responsive bids is less than three, rebidding shall not be carried out
without the Bank's prior concurrence.
Unless otherwise agreed to in writing between the Republic of Indonesia and the Bank, this
representations and assurances form an integral part of said Loan Agreement.
It is our understanding that, in making the Loan, the Bank may rely on the statements set forth in
this letter.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
by-
Authorized Representative
-42 -



Disbursement
Table B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in USSmliilon       Financing Percentage
Works                                    0.30                        80
Goods                                    1.23                     100/100/80
Incremental Operating Costs              0.53                      70/50/35
(i) Global Connectivity                                        70 in FY2002/2003
50 in FY2004 and 35 thereafter
(ii) Local Connectivity and ISG          0.16                        70
Networking Services
Content Development Sevices and          0.41                        100
Training                                   .
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Total Project Costs                      2.63
Front-end fee        0.03
Total                                    2.66
-43 -



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
INDONESIA: Global Development Leaming Network Project (LIL)
A. Project Implementation Plan
- DGHE GDLN Proposal
- DGHE GDLN Business Plans
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia, February 14, 2001, Report No. 21580-IND
C. Other
- GDLN Indonesia Proposal for a Learning and Innovation Loan, March 1, 2001
- Financial Model
- BTO of Reconnaissance Mission, July 30; October 16, 2000; January 29, 2001
- BTO of TechnicaUPre-Appraisal Mission, September 6, 2001
- BTO of Financial Management Mission, 2001
*Including electronic files
-44 -



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDONESIA: Global Development Learning Network Project (LIL)
1 3-Juri-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Odginal Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project IL)    FY   Purpose                                       lBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P040578        2002 Eastern Indonesia Raglan Transport              200.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     184.50     -15.50      0.00
P072852        2002 ID-Urban Poverty LI                              29.50      70.50                 0.00      0.00     101.49      0.00       0.00
P040528        2001 ID-Western Java Environment Managenment          11.70       5.75                 0.00      0.00      17.37       1.97      0.00
P049539        2001 ID-PROVINCIAL. HEALTH [I                         83.20      40.00                 0.00      0.00     102.19      15.35      0.00
P073025        2001 ID-SECOND KECAMATAN DEVELOPMENT                 208.50     111.30                 0.00      0.00     317.07      -1.99      0.00
P068949        2001 PROJECT                                           0.00       4.15                 0.00      0.00       3.97       0.00      0.00
P059477        2000 UBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - LIL                  0.00      77.40                 0.00      0.00      97.13      -5.22      0.00
P049545        2000 ID-WSSLIC 11                                      0.00      38.00                 0.00      0.00      33.44       9.78      0.00
P059930        2000 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH I                           13.00       5.00                 0.00      0.00      15.10       8.29      0.00
P055821        1999 DEONT. AGRICULTURAUIFORESTRY EXTENSION            0.00    1100.00                 0.00      0.00      34.71      20.13      0.00
P036049        1999 ID-URBAN POVERTY PROJECT                         21.50       0.00                 0.00      10.85      7.09      18.78     18.77
P058074        1999 ID-EARLY CHILD) DEVELOPMENT                       8.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       1.89       1.88      0.39
P003967        1999 ID-MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT                 44.70       0.00                 0.00      5.00      24.22      17.84      0.00
P084118        1999 ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                         300.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     150.00     180.00      0.00
P063732        1999 WATSAL                                           31.50       0.00                 0.00     21.50       5.29      28.79      1.71
P040198        1999 ID-CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                          54.50      20.10                 0.00      0.00      44.92      17.88      0.00
P041895        1999 ID-SUMATRA BASIC EDUCUATION                      47.90      15.93                 0.00      0.00      44.71      28.73      0.00
P045337        1998 ID-SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                         225.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     436.3      -2.47      0.00
P036958        1998 I D-KECAMATAN DEV FUND                           42.50       0.00                 0.00       8.15     18,24      15.73     11I.06
P048715        1998 ID-SAFE MOTHERHOOD                                34.50      0.00,                0.00       8.50     12.24      20.41      12.08
P003993        1998 Indtonesia- IlDP                                234.00       0.00                 0.00      50.00    118.10      70.85       1.80
P040062        1998 Sumatra Reg. Rds                                  0.00       0.00                 4.10       0.00      1.35       1.35      1.35
P040081        1998 CORAL REEF MGMT REHA                             20.50       0.00                 0.00       5.00     12.75      10.49      3.49
P039844        1998 8ENGKULU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                    103.50      0.00                 0.00       3.78     33.19     -22.55      0.00
P036048        1998 ID-W. JAVA BASIC EDUCATION                        8.90       0.00                 4.10       0.00      2.77       2.77      2.77
P049051        1997 CORAL REEF MGM REHiA                             18.40       0.00                 0.00       0,90      9.28      10.05      9.19
P040195        1997 BEPEKA AUDrr MODERNIZATION PROJECT               71.20       0.00                 0.00       9.89     20.38      19.82      9.81
P003987        1997 ID-CUAIlTY OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUC (CUE)          104.00       0.00                 0~00       0.00     38.27      37.37      0.00
P004028        1997 ID-CENTRAL INDONESIA SEC. E DU.                  105.00      0.00                 0.00      20.00     70.88      88.55       0.00
P038047        1997 Railway Efllcfency                               110.00      0.00                 0.00      30.06     32.31      44.34      11.83
P038053        1997 IND-BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT            155.00      0.00                 0.00      87.22     11.83      79.05      -0.38
P042540        1997 IND-SULAWESI UDP 81                              28.50       000O                 0.00       9.70      8.33      15.82      12.98
PD41894        1997 ID-IODINE DEF. CONTROL                           98.00       0.00                 0.00       0.23     22.98      13.37      0.00
P003700        1997 ID-SUMATRA SECONDARY EDUCATION                    0.00       0.00                24.30      10.25      7.88      20.51       1.75
P0040,03       1998 SOLAR HOMES SYSTEMS                               80.40      0.00                 0.00      30.00      1.31      31.31       1.31
P004004        1996 ID-SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHAER                      85.00      0.00                 0.00       8.88      4.813      8.89       0.70
P004008        1998 DEVELOPMENT                                      27.00       0.00                 0.00       4.00      3.18       7.28       0.33
PD03899        1996 ID-HIGHER EDUC SUP.(DUE)                          0.00       0.001               115.00)     0.01      8.12       4.72       0 00
P037097        1998 NUSA TENGGARA 0EV.                               99.00       0.00                 0.00       3.83     28.17      30.38       0.00
P004021        1998 KERINCISEBLATICDP                               373.00       0.00                 0.00     183.71      1 1.95   178.77      88.77
P004018        1998 ID-E.JAVA SECEDUIC.                              88.90       9.00                 000D     1000       8861      18.81       8.81
P004011        1998 POW. TRANS &DISTII1                              28.80       0.00                 0.00       3.70      2.73       4.28      -1.98
P004014        1999 Strategic Urban Rde                              19.10       0.00                185.00      9.80      3.23      12.09       0.00
P00395 1       1995 SULAWESI AGRI AREA                               138.00      0.00                 0.00      21.04      8.49      29.53      .0.05
P003972        1995 KERINCa SEBLAT lOOP                              83.00       0.00                 0.00      22.89      4.85      27.54       4.85
P004001        1895 IND-KALUMANTAN UDP                              325.00       0.00        ~        0.00      96867     37.28     133.93      83.93
P003954        1994 AG. RESEARCH II                                 165.70       0.00                 0.00      41,17      10.59     51.78      10.59
P004010        1994 ID -TELECOM SECTOR MODERNIlZATION                55.00       0.00                 0.00      19.80       1.75     21.55       1.75
JAVA IRR IMP & W R M
DAM SAFETY
Total:     3888.30     488.113             82.50       895.00    1740.85    1274.87     273.0-4
- 45 -



INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2001               Dianlia                       4.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1994               KDLC Bali                     0.00    1.72   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.72     0.00   0.00
1991               LYON-MLF-lbis                2.01    0.00     0.00   2.01    2.01    0.00     0.00   2.01
1988               Manulife                     0.00    0.32     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.32     0.00    0.00
1995               POF                          2.39     1.93    0.00   2.79     2.39   1.93     0.00    279
1997               PT AdeS Alfindo               0.00    6.98    0.00    0.00    0.00   6.98     0.00    0.00
1989               PT Agro Muko                 0.00    2.20     0.00   0.00     0.00   2.20     0.00   0.00
1997               PT Alumindo                  12.27   0.00     0.00   10.00   12.27   0.00     0.00   10.00
1989/91/94         PT Astra                     0.00     5.82    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.82     0.00    0.00
1997               PT Astra Graphia              0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.00     0.00    0.00
1993/96            PTBBLDharmala                1129     0.00    0.00   21.34   11.29   0.00     0.00   21.34
1995               PT Bakrie Pipe              33.79     0.00    0.00    0.00   33.79   0.00     0.00    0.00
1997/00            PT Bank NISP                  5.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    5.00   0.00     4.97    0.00
1997               PTBerlian                     7.42   20.00    0.00   18.72    7.42   16.65    0.00   18.72
PT Grahawita                  2.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               PT Indaci                     0.00    0.00    1.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.44    0.00
1991               PT Indo-Rama                  0.00    3.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.09    0.00    0.00
PTKIAKeramik                 16.51    0.00    0.00   53.49   16.51    0.00    0.00   53.49
1990/91/93/95/99   PT KIA Serpih                15.00    0.00    0.00   49.50   15.00    0.00    0.00   49.50
1992/94/96         PTKaliniantan                20.00   15.00    0.00    5.22   20.00   15.00    0.00    5.22
1995               PTMakro                       0.00    1.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00    0.00
1997               PTMegaplast                   7.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    7.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1997/00            PT Nusantara                  7.63    0.00    0.00    5.93    7.63    0.00    0.00    5.93
1998               PT Pramindo Ikat             25.00    8.18   25.00   36.18   25.00    3.94   25.00   36.18
1993               PT Samudera                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1996               PT Sayap                      8.34    0.00    0.00    8,00    8.34    0.00    0.00    8.00
1993               PT Signa                      0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Viscose                   20.31    0.00    0.00   23.33   20.31    0.00    0.00   23.33
2001               PT Wings                      7.23    0.00    0.00    8.53    7.23    0.00    0.00    8.53
1992/95            PTAstra Otopart               0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
1997               Prudential Asia               0.00    2.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.24    0.00    0.00
1997               SEAVI Indonesia               0.00    1.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.26    0.00    0.00
1994               Sunson                       12.41    0.00    0.00    8.00   12.41    0.00    0.00    8.00
1991
2001
Total Portfolio:      219.76    83.59        32.44  253.04   215.76  75.51    31.41
Approvals Pending Commnitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002              ManulifePrincipi                 0.00      0.00     0.04      0.00
2002              Wings Oil Palm                  11.50      0.00     0.00     10.00
2001              PT BLT II                       12.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       23.50     0.00      0.04     10.00
-46 -



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
INDONESIA: Global Development Leaming Network Project (LIL)
East
POVERTY-and SOCIAL                                           Asia L     Low-
Indonesia    Pacific  Income      Development diamond
2000
Population. mid-vear (millions)                     210.4     1,853     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                    570     1.060      420
GNI (Atlas method. US$ billions)                    119.9     1.964     1.030
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                        1.5       1.1       1.9     GN
Labor force (%)                                       2.5       1.4       2.4     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1994.00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below netional poverv line)   24
Urban population (% of total population)               41        35        32
Life expectancv at birth (Vears)                       66        69       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               46        35       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             70        13                    Access to Improved waler so'.rce
Access to an Improved water source /X of population)   76        75        76
!llilteracy (% of population age 15+)                  10        14       38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ape Population)  113      119        96           -   ndoneslo
Male                                                115       121       102                 Low-income group
Female                                              110       121       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                          76.4    114.4     141.3     153.3
Gross domestic Inveastment/GDP              24.6     30.7      12.2      17.9                    Trade
Exports of aoods and services/GDP           34.9     25.3      35.2      38.5
Gross domestic savingas/GDP                 38.8     32.3      20.2      25.7
Gross national savings/GDP                           28.1      13.1      19.2
Current account balance/GDP                    .      2.6       3                 Domestic 49aen
Interest paymnents/GDP                       1.5      3.0       3.4       4.7     +aig                        nvsmn
Total debt/GDP                              27.4     61.1     106.7      92.5     savings
Total debt service/exoorts                    ..     33.3      30.5      25.4
Present value of debt/GDP                                     106.0
Present value of debt/exports                                 254.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 6.1      4.2      0.8       4.8       49             -   ndonesia
GDP per capita                      4.2      2.5     -0.8       3.1       3.4                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.9      5.4    -31.6      16.1       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 24.5     19.4      19.5      16.9       _                   _       _
Industry                                    42.6     39.1      43.7      47 3      0
Manufacturing                              13 3     20.7      25.9      26.0     20.         go   97? \1       <     0o0
Services                                    32.9     41.5      36.7      35.8
Private consumption                         50.4     58.9      73.3      67.3     J0
General aovernment consumption              10.7      8.0       6.5       7.0 0rD                       -    -OP
Imports of goods and services               20.6     23.7      27.2      30.7
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(averaoe annual growth)                                                           40
Aariculture                                  3.6      2.1       2.7       1.7
IndustrY                                     6.9      5.8       1.9       5.5     20
Manufacturina                               2.6      6.9       3.8       6.2 o
Services                                     6.9      3.5       -1.0      5.3    -20                                 00
Private consumption                          5.6      6.5       4.6       3.6     40
General government consumption               4.6      0.1       0.7       6.5     so
Gross domestic investment                    6.7     -0.3     -23.3       8 9            -Exports        . 0  Imports
Imports of goods and services                1.2      5.5     -40.7      18.2
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key Indicators In the countrY (in bold) compared with Its Income-group averaae, If data are missIng, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-47 -



Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999    2000      InlatIlon 1%)
Domestlk prices
(% change)                                                                     Ks                       A
Consumer Drices                            17.7      7.8     20.5       3.7    *0 :
Implicit GDP deflator                      28.3      7.7     15.2      11.0  *s
Governiment finance                                                            20
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                             a
Current revenue                              ..     19.3      18.0     20.1           35    go    97    so    go    c
Current budget balance                       ..     -2.0       2.8      3.6                 GDP denator      CP
Overall surplusldeflclt                      ..       ..      -2.4     -1.1
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   26,807    51,242   65,408    7os000
Fuel                                        ..  11,071     9.885   14,386
Estate crops                               ..      840     1.289    1,111                         _             -
Manufactures                                ..   8,508    19,253   22.287     50..0*
Total importslcif)                       10.834   21.837    24.003   31.962
Food                                        ..     852     3,237    2,782     2,a001)
Fuel and energy                             ..   1,937     3,726    6,071
Capitai goods                               ..   9,328     5.710    9,212
Export orice index (1995=700)                 ,,      3       131      129            34   s5 go    By       99   00
Import orice index (1995=100)                 ..     87        90       90                *Expcrns     mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..      72       146      143
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balanco to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 ..  29,295    55,741   70,541
Imorts of goods and services                 ..   27.511    42.071   55,293
Resource balance                              ..   1,784    13,670   15,248
Net income                                    ..  -5,190    -8,997   4,440      2
Net current transfers                        ..     418         0      672                              A
Current account balance                      ..   -2.988     4.874    7.480                            as as      oo
Financing Items (net)                        ..    5.239    -2,702   -5,140
Changes in net reserves                      ..   -2,251    -1,972   -2,340     _
memo:
Reserves includina gold (US$ millions)       ..       ..    27.054   29,394
Conversion rate (DEC, locatlUSS)          627.0  1,842.8   7.85S.1   8,421.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  ComposlUon of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     20.938   69.872   150.844  141,802
IBRD                                    1.040    9.542    11.424   '1.715                         A: 11,715
IDA                                       566     842       682       714            G: 22,635        8:714
Total debt service                        3,084    9,946    17.900   18,810                            .    C: 10.838
IBRD                                      120    1,281     1,584    1,710                               _: 6Z93
IDA                                         5       la        29       31               'r-.0:23
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           109     283         0         0
Official creditors                        806    2,384     3.389     ,700 
Private creditors                         807    1,830    -7.021   -7 040                                 E: 3s.070
Foreign direct Investment                 180    1,093    -2,745   -4.550        F: 53,5
Portfolio eeuity                            0     312     -1.793   -1,911
Wofid Bank program
Commitments                               734    1.565     1,693      164     A-IBRD                    E-Bilateral
Disbursements                             373     987      1.506    1.110     B-IDA    D-Othsrmultilateral  F- Private
Principal repavments                       32     562        786      787     C - IMF                   G - Short-erorm
Net flows                                 341     425        720      324
Interest oayments                          93     737        827      955
Net transfers                             248     -312     -107     -631
Development Economics                                                                                           9110101
-48 -



MAP SECTION






INDONESIA
)  MYANMb '0      A   C  A\O>                                                                        PACIFIC           GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING
Andaman  -~~~~~~~~~                                                       PA C IF IC ~~~~~~~~NETWORK PROJECT
Gulf of                                                   X                          OCEAN                *     PROJECT srrEs
Sea                Tiln                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS
TItI    Suilu  ,~  (>>J >                  o    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
IA   D                                                               Suu                                              PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
Sea   f                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
-. *  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
O                                                                                               - - - INT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14ERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~~~~~ * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROW.02ES
Bondom                   -                                                                                               I DI AWH  1   I JAWA &WW    22 KAUMANTAN TUNJR
Ai:eh                                                                                                2 \   t  A  Y   SU2MAT2RA  A  121AWA TENGAH  n SULAWESI UIAA
A  Y  BRU  E                                              I~~~~  ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RIAJ  132DI YOGYAK~ARTA  24 GORONITAIO
AROTPEAAGO  I4 JAWA TJMI/R  2C SULAWEO ENGAH
4   >    t       t                /                  -\ e  ' ,~_2                  S                       Aea  -  .SUMATERA BARAT  00L40A  2AWESAWOOSEIA2AN
Celebe M)NLINGAZORE  / -   22  <   Mmodo4D  IOAIOI   46KS 2AT GAA   SOULAWESI TENGAMA
,0T4A;blI4Be  .'                                                                      A SENGKILU   I MNUSA TENUCGARA TIMU0  20 MALUKU U8AStA
S.a                                    1- -S r -,                                                   23|
wi_: C 8 esifof InnesI4   ,~-.               J3                              a  -      v       oA G    S   9 e a JM 4 YAT  G =20  IjA ./IRIAN  IJAYAJ
2O                         . Catnpus, 2ikarfa                                                      BANGSA O      0 (AIJ" ANJ TEWUAH
2                                          22 -,                                           10 BANTN       21 KAI EASTAN SELATAS
m                            T=Gju1 inrI k                                                          "D vig
m on 01* Pe6ndo noALIoMANTA-                                                            t 25  n- Wovka k
2 10o  =unorou+tsw7,oa0rel r0r                       A U     T R AL I A+/28
~~~ lIE  ~~~~~~~~~~           PlftIngkoan2o
U Inivwsity oflndanesia -  Java   Sea(RINAA                                                                             z
or  Salemnba Campus, Jakarta           MGBanda                                                               30,I 
29
-  4~~~TA              Ilasanuddin, ~~~~~~Sea                                              3
~~~~VI1~~~~DONESIA                                       t~~~~~~~7~~~  018    moo, 1   TIORArafura Sea
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ag0
0    200   I00  400   -                                                                             Gulfof
0  0   0 ~     4r*x (f6                                                                        Carpentaria
rh oo p - pood-od by II, Mp 0-pg Un, of T6, W-Wf Boo
no                                          04 1 p 0   d. -04491  t I6 p-t4 .1 Th. Woofd Book G.opp ooy
oo d, ooao, of oy 1044-0,0 oI ,od-n.-to                                A    U S   T R4.L.)1
105,                                             129oooo  d IO4doll



