Report No. PID10214
Project Name                     Indonesia-Global Development Learning (LIL)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Distance Education/Education Technology
Project ID                       IDPE73970
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
Implementing Agency
Address UNIVERSITY OF INDONESIA
Ministry of National Education (MONE)
Jl. Jend. Sudirman, Senayan Higher
Education Bldg. 2nd Fl.
Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Dr. Satryo S. Brodjonegoro,
Dir. General, Higher
Education; Department of National Education,
Republic of Indonesia
Tel: 6221-573-1618
Fax: 6221-573-6870
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 12, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 14, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Investing in education and training has been one of the cornerstones of
Indonesia's development policy. Over the past few decades, post-basic
education has grown substantially. Over the medium term, GOI expects
higher education gross enrollment rate of 25 percent by the year 2015.
Because of the long-term concern for financing, and the need to improve
access and efficiency, the Government supports the establishment of viable
distance learning programs at both secondary and post-secondary levels.
In 1993, 13 public and private institutions sponsored a total of 69
distance learning programs, most of which are of lower-level technology.
The University of Indonesia (UI) has been a leader in the development of
these programs and has in the past, obtained grant funding to develop its
growing capacity. For its incoming students beginning the year of 2002,
UI plans to begin a significant introduction of distance learning
options.  It is estimated that by 2005 approximately 30t of its 38,000
students will be involved in university-wide, IT distributed courses such
as General Education and English proficiency.Although a proven approach in
other countries, distance learning has yet to be judged effective in
meeting the diverse social/geographic needs of the Indonesian population.
Many of the existing programs lack the resources and access to the
pedagogical materials and tools and technical delivery capacity to
effectively meet the challenge. This is particularly true in regional
universities where average grade point averages are generally low, and the
qualifications of teaching staff are often inadequate (only about 30
percent of university staff holding graduate degrees).     The Government
continues to believe that the effective use of distance learning could



provide for increased student access to quality courses, improved teacher
training, university management training, and university-wide dialogue to
support improved university administration. Recent developments in
distance learning technologies now hold forth the promise of changing the
way in which learning takes place in higher and professional education.
With its strong record of economic growth, identified needs for human
capital development, programs for expansion of educational opportunities,
geographical dispersion, and availability of technological infrastructure,
Indonesia presents the ideal conditions for the development of these new
form of distance education. The limited resources of private universities
indicate that GOI may have to take the lead to introduce changes in
educational technology. The Government has already taken the first step
by supporting and expanding systems that have already begun, or are
feasible for example, Internet linkages, effective networking among
universities, and an emphasis on science and information technology.
Associated with the above is the obvious need to provide more Government
access to global knowledge, development management information, and
regional dialogue between counterparts. The proposed project will
demonstrate the potential for addressing all of the above needs.
2. Objectives
The project will test the potential effectiveness and sustainability of
the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) in Indonesia. Through a
variety of distance learning products and activities and the use
state-of-the-art communications technologies, the project will expand
access to development management information, strengthen the capacity of
key-decision makers in both the public and private sectors, and improve
levels of regional dialogue on policy-related issues. Senior public and
private sector decision-makers will access interactive multi-media and
internet-based training programs developed by the World Bank Institute
(WBI), major universities, private corporations, and technical
organizations around the world. Project beneficiaries will be exposed to
the latest developments in that discipline and be able to interact with
well-known specialists worldwide. This exposure to global knowledge will
enhance the capacity of Indonesian decision-makers to conceptualize and
implement reforms. It is expected that the introduction of improved
policies will, in turn, lead to improved governance, poverty reduction,
and facilitate the development of a broad strategic agenda for the
country.The Learning Innovation Loan (LIL) will support the establishment
and operation of the Distance Learning Center (DLC) located on the
University of Indonesia's main campus in Salemba (Jakarta), and two
sub-regional Distant Learning (DL) outreach centers (Sub-Centers) in
Pekanbaru and Riau.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is at the forefront of the multi-donor efforts to establish a
GDLN. In Indonesia, the new Government sees the Bank as an important
development partner and despite reduced lending levels, the Bank plays an
influential role in key policy areas of its recovery program. For example,
the Bank can assist in the development of knowledge and increase the
availability of international experience and best practice. Strengthening
the capacity of the public and private sectors to utilize and apply DL
effectively will require broadening of training programs and opportunities
for professional career development.The GDLN will also promote the
development of a virtual community of public administration and
- 2-



development professionals that encourages the sharing of knowledge. This
will extend participation in policy dialogue to include internationally
recognized experts, whose participation would be either impractical or
unaffordable through traditional methods.Through the GDLN, the Bank
intends to move away from the traditional modes of technical assistance,
towards a more innovative approach focusing on training and a new mode of
knowledge transfer. This project aims to provide innovative real capacity
building in policy formulation, implementation, and monitoring for poverty
reduction through enhanced access to learning, education and training.
4. Description
The project comprises two main components: 1) retrofitting and equipping
the main GDLN Center with national and global connectivity at the UI
Salemba Campus; and 2) retrofitting and equipping two Sub-Centers at
Universititas Hasanuddin in Makassar and Universitas Riau in Pekanbaru
with the main Center in Jakarta. Both components also include some
operational support on a decreasing basis as the cost recovery is ramped
up. Component 1 GDLN Center: This component comprises retrofitting and
equipping the main GDLN center in UI's new building on its Salemba campus
in Jakarta. The center will include two technology-based classrooms. One
will be used for "live" or synchronous video interaction between local and
course participants, remote course instructors and international
participants, and include simultaneous translation equipment. The second
will be used for independent, time-flexible (Asynchronous), and
computer-based study. Connectivity will be through a "Very Small Aperture
Terminal" (VSAT) satellite antenna. Both rooms will be outfitted for 30
computer stations, (including hardware, software, internet hook-up, and
installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring).
Support facilities and equipment, a reception room, and offices for the
center staff (directors, a training coordinator, an information technology
specialist, and an office assistant) will also be provided.Component 2 -
Two Sub-Centers: This component includes retrofitting and partially
equipping two Sub-Centers at the Universititas Hasanuddin in Makassar, and
at the Universitas Riau in Pekanbaru.    The two Sub-Centers will
demonstrate the viability of lower technologies to support the
distribution of UI courses and GDLN programming within the region. The
Sub-Centers will receive selected global/university programs, which will
be facilitated and translated by the GDLN Center in Jakarta. The
Sub-Centers will be provided with a lower cost, one-way video facilities
with data (internet) and voice connectivity to the GDLN Center in
Jakarta. The existing buildings will be retrofitted to accommodate the
required wiring, computer networking, and security modifications. To
ensure long-term sustainability, the Sub-Centers will be designed to make
optimum use of the existing domestic connectivity and the communication
infrastructure already provided by PT Telkom and PT Indosat.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost The loan amount would be US$2 million.
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by the UI under the auspices of the
Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE), MONE. The UI - Salemba
will establish a center called the Center for Learning Resources (CLR),
located in the Salemba campus of the University of Indonesia in Jakarta,
- 3-



wherein the Information Technology (IT) based distance education,
including the GDLN activities will be managed and operated. The UI's
Salemba campus has been selected to host the GDLN Center because of its
ample space and central location. Based on the UI's master plan, the
Salemba campus will be developed as a complex of high rise buildings for
Science and Technology Center, facilitating activities that involve
businesses and industries. The Sub-Centers will be located within
Universitas Hasanuddin in Makassar and Universitas Riau in Pekanbaru. A
project implementation unit (PIU) will be established at the CLR to
implement the project. The GDLN center will be within the responsibilities
of the Vice-Rector for Academic Affairs and supported by qualified
personnel. The overall management of the center will be entrusted to a
GDLN Director, selected on the basis of proven experience in enterprise
management or management of similar educational entities. All staff and
implementation activities, including those of the Sub-Centers will be
centrally coordinated through the Jakarta PIU. The DGHE will assume
responsibility for project oversight and coordination associated with all
components. The DGHE and GDLN Center/Sub-Center Directors will oversee
the physical preparation of the GDLN facilities, coordinate a market
analysis/need assessment, develop a business plan for the life of the
project, and facilitate the monitoring and evaluation process. In
addition, regular supervision activities and biannual meetings will be
held between DGHE, the GDLN Center, Sub-Center Directors and the EAP
Region GDLN team to review the availability and quality of content as well
as to discuss the evaluation of training needs in Indonesia.
7. Sustainability
(Not Applicable for LIL). This project will test the sustainability of
distance learning in the Indonesian context. It will test the comparative
demand, costs and cost effectiveness, and the sustainability of the GDLN
approach implemented by UI. It will assess the viability of cost recovery
mechanisms in higher education and the willingness of donors to switch a
significant part of their training budgets to the distance learning mode.
It will also test the ability of the private sector to develop distance
learning as a sound business. Together, it is expected that the project
will help develop cooperative arrangements between the public and the
private sectors in the training and retraining of professionals.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
N
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      (including any public
consultation)
No environmental risks have been identified. Therefore, in accordance with
Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been placed in Category C and
will not require an environmental assessment.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is a capacity building operation.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Robert L. Mcgough
-4-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1769
Fax: 202-522-3394
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 15,
2001.
-5-



